---
id: "12_CCR_2509-7"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "12 CCR 2509-7"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12214&fileName=12%20CCR%202509-7&type=pdf"
---

#### 12_CCR_2509-7. 12 CCR 2509-7

1 
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES 
Social Services Rules 
COUNTY RESPONSIBILITIES, STAFF TRAINING AND QUALIFICATIONS, CLIENT RIGHTS, 
CONFIDENTIALITY 
12 CCR 2509-7 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
7.600 
COUNTY RESPONSIBILITIES, STAFF TRAINING AND QUALIFICATIONS, CLIENT RIGHTS, 
CONFIDENTIALITY [Eff. 1/1/15] 
7.601 
COUNTY RESPONSIBILITIES [Eff. 1/1/15] 
There are basic information, legal mandates, and policies generic to the administration and/or provision of 
services that cut across all program and service areas. These include general administrative 
responsibilities, protection of clients' rights, responsibilities of clients, case processing and 
documentation, and reporting requirements. The county departments shall provide services to persons 
who are eligible and belong to the particular Program Area target groups within the following rules of the 
State Department. 
7.601.1  
COUNTY RESPONSIBILITIES TO THE STATE DEPARTMENT [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
County departments shall administer child welfare services programs in compliance with State 
Department fiscal and program regulations. 
B. 
County departments shall report to the State Department at such times and in such manner and 
form as the State Department requires, including through the state automated case management 
system. 
7.601.11 
County Responsibilities to Complete Background Checks for Foster Care Homes 
and Kinship Foster Care Homes, and Sanctions for Non-Compliance [Rev. eff. 1/1/16] 
County departments of human services shall complete a background check for foster care homes and 
kinship foster care homes pursuant to Section 26-6-106.3(5) and (6), C.R.S., and the results shall be 
documented in the resource section of state automated case management system. Failure to comply 
shall result in a corrective action process described in Section 1.110 (9 CCR 2501-1), and may result in 
sanctions described in Section 1.152. 
7.601.2  
COUNTY RESPONSIBILITIES FOR COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS WITH LAW 
ENFORCEMENT, CHILDREN’S ADVOCACY CENTERS, AND OTHER AGENCIES [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
County departments shall develop written, time limited cooperative agreements with incorporated 
and unincorporated municipality, city, county, and state law enforcement agencies that include: 
1. 
Protocols for cooperation and notification between parties on abuse and/or neglect 
referrals and child deaths resulting from abuse and/or neglect; 
2. 
Protocols for distributing the Notice of Rights and Remedies when required by Section 
19-3-212, C.R.S., and Section 7.601.31, of these rules, including, but not limited to 
assessments of abuse and/or neglect in out-of-home care settings. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
2 
3. 
Joint law enforcement investigation and human or social service assessment procedures; 
4. 
Procedures for independent law enforcement investigation and child welfare service 
assessment by either party; 
5. 
Procedures for law enforcement investigation of abuse and/or neglect in out-of-home-
care settings provided that a law enforcement investigation regarding the criminal 
aspects of an institutional abuse and/or neglect case shall not relieve the county 
department of its responsibility to assess the safety of the children in out-of-home care 
settings; and, 
6. 
Procedures to ensure review and updates to the agreement every four years. 
7. 
County departments shall sign the State Department’s cooperative agreement with the 
Colorado State Patrol, or submit a copy of the county department’s signed cooperative 
agreement with the Colorado State Patrol within thirty (30) days of signature. 
8. 
County departments shall provide the State Department with a copy of all signed 
cooperative agreements with law enforcement within thirty (30) days of signature. 
B. 
The county department may develop a Memorandum of Understanding with Child Advocacy 
Centers as defined in Section 19-1-103(19.5), C.R.S., that is to include: 
1. 
Protocols with advocacy center authorizing the use of their video tape or audio tape 
equipment; 
2. 
Interviewers are to be qualified; 
3. 
Interviews should meet the National Children's Alliance performance forensic standards 
for persons conducting these forensic interviews, as found in the National Children's 
Alliance Standards for accredited member programs; no later amendments or editions 
are incorporated. Copies of these standards are available from the Colorado Department 
of Human Services, Division of Child Welfare, 1575 Sherman Street, Denver, Colorado 
80203, or at any state publications depository library; 
4. 
The county department is not responsible for the training of the forensic interviewer 
employed by the advocacy center; 
5. 
Procedures for conducting forensic interviews in a manner that is of a neutral fact-finding 
nature and coordinated to avoid duplicate interviews; and, 
6. 
The child advocacy center shall provide technical assistance for forensic interviews, 
forensic medical examinations, or evidence collection or preservation. 
C. 
Requests for services, from agencies, including other county departments or states, shall be 
responded to with the same level of attention and to the same extent as requests received from 
within the county, and as specified in each of the program areas.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
3 
7.601.3  
COUNTY RESPONSIBILITIES TO ADVISE CLIENTS – COOPERATION AND 
RESIDENCE – AVAILABLE SERVICES [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
County departments shall ensure that clients are advised of their responsibility to work with the 
county department throughout service assessment, planning and delivery in court involved and 
voluntary cases, in order to establish and achieve common goals of safety, well-being and 
permanency. Failure of clients to participate or cooperate may result in modification or termination 
of services. 
B. 
County departments shall ensure that clients are advised in writing and orally of the client's 
responsibility to report within thirty (30) calendar days, changes of circumstances affecting their 
eligibility. 
C. 
When a client leaves the original county of residence that county department shall close its case 
file with exceptions found in individual Program Areas (e.g., Program Areas 3 and 5). Clients are 
to be advised of the county department’s action on the state prescribed notice of social service 
action form, if applicable. 
D. 
County departments shall make reasonable efforts to advise county residents of services 
available through the state and county department by means of such methods as press releases, 
presentations, pamphlets, websites, social media and other mass media. 
7.601.31 
Required Notice of Rights and Remedies [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
All county departments shall utilize the state prescribed “Notice of Rights and Remedies for 
Families” in cases subject to Article 3 of the Colorado Children's Code, “Dependency and 
Neglect”. 
B. 
County departments shall add county-specific information to the state prescribed form and supply 
copies of the notice to all law-enforcement agencies within the county or district. 
C. 
The notice shall be delivered at the time of a child's removal to the parent(s) and family from 
whom the child is removed by court order or by law enforcement personnel. The notice shall 
specify the cause of the removal of the child or children. 
1. 
If the removal is an emergency pursuant to Section 19-3-401, C.R.S., a copy of the court 
order directing the removal of the child or children from the home shall be delivered to the 
family promptly upon its availability. 
2. 
If the removal of the child or children is not an emergency, a copy of the court order 
directing the removal shall also be provided to the parents and family at the time of 
removal. 
7.601.4  
COUNTY RESPONSIBILITIES TO RESPOND TO REFERRALS [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
County departments shall have staff continuously available twenty-four (24) hours a day to 
receive referrals of alleged abuse and/or neglect, conduct initial reviews of such referrals and 
assess those referrals that are appropriate for child welfare services. 
B. 
County departments shall establish written response protocols outlining the county plan for 
weekends, holidays, and after-hour coverage, to include: 
1. 
How the county department will ensure that those individuals reporting abuse and/or 
neglect after hours are directed to the designated number or agency for response;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
4 
2. 
Requirements for thorough documentation to support the disposition or actions of the 
county department; and, 
3. 
Requirements that referrals are entered into the state automated case management 
system as outlined in described in 7.103.9, A. 
C. 
County departments shall ensure that personal, telephone, or written contact is made within five 
(5) working days of receiving a request for services that does not involve allegations of abuse 
and/or neglect or as otherwise specified for target groups within Program Areas. 
7.601.5  
MANDATORY REPORTING OF CHILD ABUSE AND/OR NEGLECT [Eff. 1/1/15] 
All county department staff who have reasonable cause to know or suspect child abuse or neglect as set 
forth in Section 19-3-304, C.R.S., are mandated to report such information to the appropriate county 
department staff or local law enforcement. 
7.601.6  
COUNTY RESPONSIBILITIES FOR CASE DOCUMENTATION [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
There shall be case documentation in all active cases as required by the individual Program Area. 
1. 
Frequency of case documentation of case activity will be at a minimum every six (6) 
months and more often as needed, according to the case plan or Family Service Plan. 
2. 
Summary documentation updating a case record shall be done at least every six (6) 
months or whenever a case is transferred from county to county, between workers in a 
county, or when a case is closed. 
3. 
For cases in Program Areas 4, 5, and 6, when there is a change in caseworker or a 
transfer of a service case to another county, the new caseworker shall have telephone or 
in-person contact with the child and/or provider within thirty (30) calendar days after the 
change or transfer. 
B. 
A written narrative summary of case activity shall include, but is not limited to, the following (a 
court report containing the same information will suffice): 
1. 
Ongoing assessment of individual and/or family functioning; 
2. 
Assessment of progress toward objectives and goals; 
3. 
Chronology of significant events including dates of occurrence; 
4. 
Method of intervention/treatment and impressions of effectiveness; 
5. 
Changes and/or refinements of case plan; 
6. 
Type and extent of court involvement; and 
7. 
Other significant individuals or agencies involved. 
For cases in Program Areas 4, 5, and 6 in which an Administrative Review is substituting for a 
court review, the county shall assure that a written summary containing the above information is 
complete and present in the case file. The county shall submit this written summary with the 
Administrative Review findings to the court.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
5 
C. 
A case plan/agreement for each service period shall be developed which contains all of the 
required information. 
D. 
Documentation of all pertinent contact sheets shall be prepared and prior to the periodic summary 
of such activities. 
E. 
Evaluation and reassessments pertaining to each service period shall be conducted which reflect 
case movement toward the long-term goal. 
F. 
A written summary shall be completed within thirty (30) calendar days of closure which shall 
include: 
1. 
Summary of contacts; 
2. 
Reason for closure; 
3. 
Summary of services provided; and 
4. 
Assessment of effectiveness of services in terms of client's stated goals including, where 
possible, the client's assessment of the experience. 
7.601.7  
COUNTY RESPONSIBILITIES TO DETERMINE AND DOCUMENT FUNDING SOURCE 
FOR THE PURPOSE OF REPORTING SERVICES AND TO GAIN MAXIMUM FEDERAL 
REIMBURSEMENT [Eff. 1/1/15] 
If a child is determined eligible for services, the county department shall document the child's funding 
source eligibility on the Department's automated reporting system. This activity shall occur for each child 
opened on the department's automated reporting system. Eligibility shall be documented for each funding 
source for which the child is eligible. 
Eligibility criteria and required time frames for determination are found in subsections 7.601.71 through 
7.601.74. 
7.601.71 
Title IV-E Foster Care [Eff. 1/1/15] 
Title IV-E of the Social Security Act provides federal matching funds to help pay for the cost of foster care 
for eligible children. It also pays for training and administrative costs associated with the delivery of 
services to Title IV-E eligible children/youth. 
A. 
Eligibility Verification and Documentation 
1. 
Verification of the child's citizenship or non-citizen status is required. Other information 
received by the county department to support a Title IV-E eligibility determination does 
not require verification unless it conflicts with other information in the possession of the 
department. If such a conflict occurs, the county department shall use verification 
procedures provided in the rules for the Colorado Works Program to resolve the conflict 
(Section 3.140, et seq.; 9 CCR 2503-1). 
2. 
The county department shall document each of the eligibility factors on the state 
prescribed form. The county must ensure that a copy of the signed voluntary placement 
agreement or court order and any required verification are present in the case file. 
3. 
The county department shall use the following eligibility effective dates in the state 
automated case management system:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
6 
a. 
The eligibility effective date of the child for Title IV-E shall be the first day of the 
month in which all eligibility criteria for the child are met, but can be no earlier 
than the first day of placement. 
b. 
The date of eligibility of the placement for reimbursements through Title IV-E is 
the first day of the month in which all the Title IV-E provider eligibility criteria are 
met. 
c. 
With respect to the court order/petition, the date that is used is the date of the 
court order or the date a petition is filed for custody/authority for care and 
placement of the child/youth which eventually leads to a court ordered removal of 
the child from the home. 
B. 
Title IV-E Eligibility Criteria for a Child/Youth - Initial Determination 
1. 
The child was removed from his/her parent(s) or other specified relative either by: 
a. 
A voluntary placement agreement entered into by the child's parent or legal 
guardian; or 
b. 
A voluntary services agreement entered into by a youth who is participating in the 
foster youth in transition program as described in 12 CCR 2509-3; 7.203.4 et 
seq. 
c. 
Order of the court. 
2. 
The first court ruling sanctioning the removal of the child from the home must contain 
findings to the effect that: 
a. 
Continuation in the home would be contrary to the welfare of the child; or, 
b. 
Out-of-home placement is in the best interests of the child. 
If this “best interests” determination is not recorded in the first written court order, signed 
by a judge or magistrate, pertaining to the removal of the child from the home, a 
transcript of the findings and orders from the court proceeding is the only other 
documentation that can be accepted to verify that the required judicial determination was 
made. Neither affidavits nor subsequent “nunc pro tunc” orders are acceptable 
verification for meeting the “best interests” requirement. 
3. 
There must be an order of the court within sixty (60) calendar days after the date the child 
is placed in out-of-home care with a finding to the effect that: 
a. 
Reasonable efforts were made to prevent the removal of the child from the home; 
or 
b. 
An emergency situation exists such that the lack of preventative services was 
reasonable; or, 
c. 
Reasonable efforts to prevent the removal of the child from the home were not 
required. (See Section 7.304.53, B, 3, for circumstances in which the court may 
determine, that reasonable efforts to prevent removal are not required).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
7 
If a “reasonable efforts to prevent the removal” determination was made by the court as 
required, but was not recorded in the original written court order signed by the judge or 
magistrate pertaining to that judicial determination, a transcript of the findings and orders 
from the court proceeding is the only other documentation that can be accepted to verify 
that the required determination was made. Neither affidavits nor subsequent “nunc pro 
tunc” orders are acceptable verification for meeting this “reasonable efforts” requirement. 
4. 
The county is granted legal custody/authority for placement and care of the child/youth or 
the child/youth is in out-of-home care under a voluntary placement agreement/voluntary 
services agreement. 
5. 
The child must have lived with a parent or other specified relative from whom the child is 
removed through a voluntary placement agreement or court-ordered custody with the 
county department in the month, or within the six (6) months preceding the month, in 
which the voluntary placement agreement was signed or court proceedings were initiated 
to remove the child or the child has entered into a voluntary services agreement pursuant 
to section 19-7-306, C.R.S. 
6. 
A child removed through a “constructive removal” shall be determined Title IV-E eligible if 
all other applicable criteria for Title IV-E eligibility are met. 
A constructive removal occurs when all of the following apply: 
a. 
The child resides with a non-parent caretaker who is not the legal custodian or 
guardian of the child; 
b. 
The child is court ordered into the custody of the county department or placed 
through a voluntary placement agreement; and 
c. 
The child remains in the home of the caretaker who serves as the out-of-home 
care provider to the child after the county is awarded custody or obtains the 
agreement for voluntary placement. 
7. 
To be eligible for Title IV-E, the child must be determined eligible for Aid to Families with 
Dependent Children (AFDC) in accordance with the July 16, 1996, regulations (and 
exceptions as allowed). 
C. 
Title IV-E Eligibility Criteria of a Provider 
For the placement costs of a Title IV-E eligible child/youth to be claimable through Title IV-E 
funding the provider must be a Title IV-E eligible provider. An out-of-home provider must be fully 
licensed or fully certified to be a Title IV-E eligible provider. 
Placement costs of Title IV-E eligible children/youth placed with provisionally licensed or 
provisionally certified out-of-home care providers will not be claimable through Title IV-E foster 
care as they are not fully licensed or fully certified providers. 
Administrative costs for an otherwise Title IV-E eligible child who is placed in less than fully 
licensed or fully certified out-of-home care placements are not claimable through Title IV-E 
funding, except when the child/YOUTH is placed with a relative and the relative is pursuing full 
foster care certification. Administrative costs can be claimed for up to six months while the 
child/youth remains in placement with a provisionally certified relative provider.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
8 
Administrative costs are not claimable through Title IV-E funding for children/YOUTH who are 
placed in facilities that are not Title IV-E eligible facilities, such as a detention placement, except 
for the calendar month in which a child moves from a facility that is not eligible for Title IV-E 
funding to a Title IV-E claimable out-of-home care facility. 
Placement costs of Title IV-E eligible youth who are residing in a supervised independent living 
placement as described in 12 CCR 2509-04; 7.305.2(D) and have reached the age of 18 are 
claimable. 
D. 
AFDC Eligibility Tests 
Title IV-E requires that eligibility for Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) must be 
determined in accordance with the regulations as in effect on July 16, 1996, and exceptions as 
allowed. See 42 U.S.C. SECTION 672(a)(3). The AFDC eligibility month is the month court 
proceedings leading to the removal were initiated or the month in which a voluntary placement 
agreement was signed. 
1. 
Living with a Relative - The child/youth must have lived with a parent or other specified 
relative: 
a. 
During the month in which court proceedings to remove the child/youth were 
initiated or a voluntary placement agreement/voluntary services agreement was 
signed; or 
b. 
Sometime within the six (6) months preceding the month in which court 
proceedings to remove the child/youth were initiated or a voluntary placement 
agreement/voluntary services agreement was signed. 
2. 
Deprivation of Parental Support - The child/youth must be deprived of parental support or 
care of one or both parents by reason of: 
a. 
Death; 
b 
Incapacity - physical or mental; 
c. 
Continued absence from the home; or 
d. 
Unemployment - deprivation due to unemployment exists when: 
1) 
Both of the child's natural or adoptive parents resided in the removal 
home in the month the voluntary placement agreement was signed or 
court proceedings were initiated to remove the child from the home; and 
2) 
The household income, after AFDC income tests are applied, is less than 
the need standard for the household. 
e. 
Deprivation of parental support findings are not required when the youth is 
participating in the foster youth in transition program. 
3. 
Determination of Need 
The income and resources of the household members of the removal home must be 
within the allowable standards for an AFDC assistance unit. Refer to the AFDC rules from 
July 16, 1996, to determine which members of the household are considered in the 
determination of income and resources.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
9 
a. 
Resources - The family must have less than $10,000 in countable resources. 
b. 
Income Test - The household income after AFDC income tests are applied must 
be less than the need standard for the household. 
4. 
Additional AFDC Eligibility Factors 
a. 
Age - The child must be under eighteen (18) years, or if over eighteen (18) but 
not yet nineteen (19) years of age, must be a fulltime student in a secondary 
school or in the equivalent level of vocational or technical training and expected 
to complete the program before age 19. Such children are eligible for Title IV-E 
though the month of completion of the educational program. 
(i) 
The youth is participating in the foster youth in transition program and 
meets eligibility criteria described in 12 CCR 2509-03 7.203.4. 
b. 
Citizenship - The child must be a United States citizen, naturalized citizen, or 
qualified non-citizen to be eligible for Title IV-E. Refer to Section 3.140 of the 
Income Maintenance rules (9 CCR 2503-1). 
c. 
Residency - The child must be a resident of Colorado. If the child's residency is 
from another state, that state is responsible for determining Title IV-E eligibility of 
the child. 
E. 
Eligibility Factor - Voluntary Placement Agreement 
1. 
A voluntary placement agreement must be completed and signed by the parent(s) or 
legal guardian and the county department. 
2. 
Eligibility for Title IV-E foster care can begin no earlier than the signature date of the 
voluntary placement agreement. 
3. 
Voluntary placement agreements are limited to ninety (90) calendar days. If placement of 
the child is to continue beyond ninety (90) calendar days, the county department must 
obtain a petition to review the need for placement that leads to a court order granting the 
county department legal custody. 
4. 
There must be an order by the court within one hundred eighty (180) calendar days of the 
child's placement in foster care that “continued placement is in the best interests of the 
child”, or words to that effect. If such an order is not made by the court within the 
allowable one hundred eighty (180) calendar days, the child is not eligible for Title IV-E 
foster care reimbursement for the remainder of the child's placement in out-of-home care. 
F. 
Eligibility Factor – Voluntary Services Agreement 
1. 
A voluntary services agreement must be completed and signed by the youth and the 
county department. 
2. 
Eligibility for Title IV-E foster care can begin no earlier than the signature date of the 
voluntary services agreement. 
3. 
If the placement of the youth is to continue beyond ninety (90) calendar days, the county 
department must file a petition for a foster youth in transition case to ensure judicial 
oversight.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
10 
4. 
There must be an order by the court within one hundred eighty (180) calendar days of the 
youth's placement in foster care that “continued placement is in the best interests of the 
youth”, or words to that effect. if such an order is not made by the court within the 
allowable one hundred eighty (180) calendar days, the youth is not eligible for Title IV-E 
foster care reimbursement for the remainder of the youth's placement in out-of-home 
care. 
G. 
Eligibility Factor - Relinquishment 
If a child is relinquished to the county department, the county shall petition the court to judicially 
remove the child even though the parent relinquished the child to the agency. Children 
relinquished to the county department can be Title IV-E eligible when: 
1. 
The child had last been living with the parent within six (6) months of the date court 
proceedings were initiated. 
2. 
The court order contains the findings shown at Section 7.601.71, B, 2. 
3. 
The child meets other eligibility factors. 
H. 
Minor Parent and Child in Mutual Care 
A child residing in mutual out-of-home care with his/her adult parent is not considered removed 
from the parent because the child continues to reside with the parent in the same residence; 
therefore, the child is not IV-E eligible. 
When the parent is a minor and the minor parent has been determined eligible for Title IV-E foster 
care, the child's placement costs are reimbursable through Title IV-E foster funding as an 
extension of the minor parent's cost of care. 
I. 
Required Time Frames 
1. 
The county department is responsible for determining the eligibility of every child entering 
out-of-home foster care within forty-five (45) calendar days of the placement date unless 
good faith efforts have been made and recorded in the child's record. 
2. 
Counties shall redetermine eligibility using the state prescribed form every twelve (12) 
months from the date the child enters foster care. 
J 
Redetermination of Title IV-E Eligibility Requirements 
1. 
A court order must remain in effect which grants legal custody of the child to the county 
department or a petition to review the need for placement was filed and the court has 
ordered legal authority for continued placement within one hundred eighty (180) calendar 
days of the date a child entered out-of-home care by voluntary placement agreement. 
2. 
Effective March 27, 2001, there must be an order of the court finding that the county 
department has made reasonable efforts to finalize a permanency plan. This finding must 
be made within twelve (12) months of the date the child enters foster care, and every 
twelve (12) months thereafter while the child remains in out-of-home care. If twelve (12) 
months elapse without this judicial determination, eligibility for Title IV-E foster care 
temporarily ends. Title IV-E eligibility can resume the 1st day of the month in which the 
finding is made. 3. Redeterminations of AFDC requirements are not required for youth 
participating in the foster youth in transition program.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
11 
K. 
Redetermination of Provider Eligibility 
An out-of-home care provider must be licensed or certified to be a Title IV-E eligible placement. 
Placement costs for a Title IV-E eligible child are only Title IV-E claimable when a child is placed 
with a Title IV-E eligible provider. Effective September 1, 2000, provisionally licensed or 
provisionally certified out-of-home care providers will not be claimable placements through Title 
IV-E foster care as they are not fully licensed or fully certified. 
L. 
Reasonable Candidates 
Reasonable candidates for foster care, for the purposes of Title IV-E program, are children 
determined to be at risk of imminent placement out of the home as defined in Section 19-1- 
103(64), C.R.S. Administrative costs may be claimed for children who are determined to be at 
imminent risk of removal from the home through a voluntary placement agreement or court 
ordered custody with the county department. A determination must be made as to whether the 
child is at imminent risk of removal from the home no less frequently than every six (6) months. 
Reasonable efforts shall be made to prevent the removal of the child from the home until such 
time that pursuing removal of the child from the home becomes necessary. 
7.601.712 
Referral to Child Support Services IV-E and Non IV-E Case(s) 
The county department may refer any child/youth placed in out of home care to the county department's 
Child Support Services Unit if the county department finds that a referral is appropriate. A referral may 
only be appropriate when: 
1. 
The referral will not impede successful achievement of the child/youth's permanency plan 
or compromise the parent's ability to meet the current or future financial needs of the 
child/youth; 
2. 
The referral will not compromise the parent's ability to meet the needs of the other 
children in the household who may be at risk of removal; 
3. 
The child/youth is in continuous placement for more than forty-five (45) days; and 
4. 
The youth is not participating in the foster youth in transition program. 
If a referral is made, the county department must review the case every 6 months to reassess the 
appropriateness of the referral. The county department may consult with the Child Support Services Unit 
during the reassessment. 
7.601.72 
Supplemental Security Income (SSI) [Eff. 1/1/15] 
Supplemental Security Income is a federal monthly award granted to a child 0–21 years of age who has a 
verified disability. 
A. 
Recipients of Social Security Administration (SSA) death benefits or Supplemental Security 
Disability Income for Dependents (SSDI) shall not be coded in this fund source. 
B. 
The county department shall make application to the Social Security Administration for any child 
who is believed to meet Supplemental Security Income eligibility criteria. Application for 
Supplemental Security Income is required for all children enrolled in the Children's Habilitation 
Residential Program (CHRP) waiver. 
C. 
Concurrent eligibility for Title IV-E foster care and Supplemental Security Income (SSI) is allowed.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
12 
D. 
Required Time Frames - Application for benefits shall begin within forty-five (45) calendar days of 
the child's out-of-home placement in appropriate cases. 
7.601.73 
Title IV-A Emergency Assistance [Eff. 1/1/15] 
The county department shall determine eligibility for the Title IV-A Emergency Assistance Program 
anytime services are provided or purchased for families with children at risk of placement or when the 
worker transfers an intake case for on-going services. 
A. 
Eligibility Factors 
The eligibility determination shall be documented on the state prescribed form and shall include: 
1. 
Whether an emergency exists, defined as the removal of a child from his or her home into 
publicly funded care or state or county supervision, or risk of such removal as determined 
by the responsible state or county agency officials. 
2. 
Whether the child has lived with a relative anytime within the six (6) months preceding the 
Title IV-A Emergency Assistance application. See the Income Maintenance manual for 
requirements of relative (9 CCR 2503-1). 
3. 
Whether the family's total gross annual income is under $75,000. 
B. 
Maintenance of Effort (MOE) 
Expenditures of services to or on behalf of eligible members of an Emergency Assistance eligible 
family can be attributed to the State's TANF Maintenance of Effort requirement if a child is living 
in the household with the parent or other adult relative. The Maintenance of Effort entitlement 
shall be recorded in the state automated case management system if a case is opened for the 
child. 
C. 
Required Time Frames 
The county shall complete the eligibility determination within thirty (30) business days of case 
opening. The eligibility effective date can be no earlier than the date when the application is 
initiated. 
7.601.74 
Without Regard to Income [Eff. 1/1/15] 
The Without Regard to Income entitlement shall be the default funding stream when a case is opened in 
the state automated case management system. 
7.601.8  
COUNTY RESPONSIBILITIES TO REPORT FRAUD – RECOVER MONIES OWED 
AND REPORT FALSIFICATION [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
County departments shall refer, within ten (10) working days, to the appropriate investigatory 
agency and the district attorney any alleged discrepancy which may be a fraudulent act or 
suspected fraudulent act by a staff member, client, former client, or provider of services. 
B. 
County departments shall seek recovery for the total amount of services costs if the county 
department finds that the individual was not eligible for the service or if fraud is established.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
13 
C. 
County departments shall take whatever action is necessary to recover payments when staff 
members, current or former clients and/or providers owe money to the state and/or county 
department because of overpayments, ineligibility and/or failure to comply with applicable state 
laws, rules or procedures. 
7.601.81 
PROTOCOL AND NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR FALSIFICATION OF CHILD 
WELFARE RECORDS 
A. 
The Colorado Department of Human Services shall maintain and utilize a written protocol 
regarding the quality assurance process when the Division of Child Welfare is notified by a county 
department of a confirmed incident of falsification of child welfare records. The Colorado 
Department of Human Services shall notify the county departments each time the written protocol 
is updated. 
A confirmed incident of falsification of child welfare records is an incident where, after an 
investigation by the county department, the county department establishes by a preponderance of 
the evidence that a person knowingly or intentionally made a false entry or falsely altered 
information in the comprehensive child welfare information system known as Trails. 
B. 
County departments shall maintain and utilize a written protocol regarding quality assurance and 
investigatory processes to monitor for falsification of child welfare records in the comprehensive 
child welfare information system known as Trails. The county department shall submit its written 
protocol to the Colorado Department of Human Services’ Division of Child Welfare for review, and 
submit it again each time the written protocol is updated. 
The county department’s written protocol shall include at minimum the following: 
1. 
If a county department places an employee on administrative leave or temporary 
suspension for the purpose of investigating a suspected incident of falsification of child 
welfare records, then the county department shall request that the state department 
suspend the employee’s access to the comprehensive child welfare information system 
known as Trails within one (1) working day from the date the employee is placed on 
leave. 
2. 
The county department shall make reasonable efforts to promptly preserve evidence that 
a child welfare record has been falsified and supervise or restrict the employee's access 
to child welfare records including but not limited to the comprehensive child welfare 
information system known as Trails, hard copy case files, and other child welfare case 
related documents. 
3. 
The investigation shall be completed by the county department even when the employee 
subject of the investigation resigns, is terminated, or is no longer employed by the county 
department at the time the suspected falsification of child welfare records becomes 
known to the county department. 
4. 
The county department shall use a state department approved letter of notice when there 
is a confirmed incident of falsified child welfare records. 
C. 
Each county department shall post their written protocol regarding falsification of child welfare 
records on the county department public-facing website, or shall otherwise provide the written 
protocol to individuals involved in the county child welfare system.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
14 
D. 
The county department shall notify the Division of Child Welfare of a confirmed incident of 
falsification of child welfare records within three (3) working days of the confirmation. 
E. 
The county department shall refer confirmed incidents of falsification of child welfare records to 
the appropriate law enforcement agency or the district attorney within ten (10) working days of the 
confirmation. The referral to the appropriate law enforcement agency or the district attorney shall 
be documented by the county department in the employee’s personnel record. 
F. 
The county department shall correct the comprehensive child welfare information system known 
as Trails when an incident of falsification of child welfare records is confirmed and shall make 
notice of the correction as follows: 
1. 
If the falsified record relates to an assessment, referral or case for which there is no 
corresponding dependency and neglect or juvenile delinquency case, the county 
department shall notify the parents and guardians of the child/youth who was alleged or 
found to be the victim of abuse or neglect or a youth in conflict, the person found or 
alleged to be responsible for the abuse or neglect, and the child/youth if age ten (10) 
years old or older, that a child welfare record has been corrected if that individual would 
be entitled to access the corrected record pursuant to C.R.S. § 19-1-307 and any other 
applicable state or federal privacy requirements. Notice to the individuals shall be made 
through any preferred contact method for the individuals documented in the 
comprehensive child welfare information system known as Trails. Additionally, the county 
department shall make notice to all individuals with the state approved notification letter 
which shall be mailed by first class U.S. mail to the last known address of each individual 
within ten (10) working days. 
2. 
If the falsified child welfare record relates to an open dependency and neglect or juvenile 
delinquency case, the county department shall notify the court, parties to the case, their 
legal counsel, and Guardian ad Litem that a record in the comprehensive child welfare 
information system known as Trails has been corrected within ten (10) working days of 
making the correction. The county department shall notify the parents and guardians of 
the child/youth who was alleged or found to be the victim of abuse or neglect or a youth 
in conflict, the person found or alleged to be responsible for the abuse or neglect, and the 
child/youth if age ten (10) years old or older, that a child welfare record has been 
corrected if that individual would be entitled to access the corrected record pursuant to 
C.R.S. § 19-1-307 and any other applicable state or federal privacy requirements. Notice 
to the individuals shall be made through any preferred contact method documented in the 
comprehensive child welfare information system known as Trails. Additionally, the county 
department shall make notice to all individuals with the state approved notification letter 
which shall be mailed by first class U.S. mail to the last known address of each individual 
within ten (10) working days. 
3. 
To the extent permitted by C.R.S. § 19-1-307 and any other applicable state or federal 
privacy requirements, the county department shall include a description of the corrections 
made to a child welfare record in its notification letters to those individuals entitled to 
notice. 
Any notice of a corrected child welfare record issued pursuant to this rule shall be documented in 
the comprehensive child welfare information system known as Trails. 
7.602 
COUNTY RESPONSIBILITIES - STAFF AND VOLUNTEERS [Rev. eff. 11/1/15] 
7.602.1  
STAFF [Rev. eff. 11/1/15] 
A. 
The county shall ensure supervision of casework and case management staff through:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
15 
1. 
Review of individual and family assessments; 
2. 
Family Service Plans; 
3. 
Records maintenance and documentation, including updated information in the 
Department's automated reporting system; and, 
4. 
Plans for termination of services. 
These review findings shall be documented in writing by supervisory personnel and 
provided to the social service staff and state staff upon request. 
B. 
All current and prospective employees of the county department, who in their position have direct 
contact with any child in the process of being placed or who has been placed in out of home care, 
shall submit a complete set of fingerprints to the Colorado Bureau of Investigation (CBI) that were 
taken by a qualified law enforcement agency to obtain any criminal record held by the CBI. 
1. 
The person's employment is conditional upon a satisfactory criminal background check; 
and subject to the same grounds for denial or dismissal as outlined in Section 26-6-
104(7), C.R.S., including: 
a. 
Checking records and reports; and, 
b. 
Individuals who have not resided in the state within the preceding five (5) years 
shall be required to have a Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) fingerprint-
based criminal history. 
2. 
Payment of the fee for the criminal record check is the responsibility of the individual 
being checked. 
3. 
Prospective employees who are transferring from one county department to another are 
not required to be re-fingerprinted if they complete the following process: 
a. 
New employees must obtain their CBI clearance letter or a photocopy of their 
processed fingerprint card from their former employer. They must attach it to a 
new fingerprint card, with the top portion completed. 
b. 
The new fingerprint card must include the new employer's address. “Transfer-
County Department” must be inserted in the “Reason Fingerprinted” block. 
c. 
The CBI clearance letter (or photocopy of the old fingerprint card) and the new 
fingerprint card must be sent with money order payable to the CBI. 
d. 
County departments that have accounts with CBI are not required to send the 
money order, and they shall enter their CBI account number in the OCA block of 
the new fingerprint card. 
7.602.2  
VOLUNTEERS [Rev. eff. 11/1/15] 
County departments may use volunteers to the extent feasible and practical in the administration and 
delivery of services. County Departments shall employ a process to screen volunteers if such persons’ 
responsibilities include direct contact with children. 
A. 
The county department shall have a policy that contains:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
16 
1. 
The county department’s commitment to and use of volunteers within the department. 
2. 
Job descriptions for volunteers that describe the duties, location(s), and supervision of 
the volunteer roles; 
3. 
Information on volunteer evaluation and recognition for his/her contribution to the agency; 
and, 
4. 
Agency and volunteer liability. 
B. 
Volunteers shall be trained about topics needed for the volunteer's specific role. 
C. 
The volunteer shall sign a statement that he/she has been trained in the agency standards of 
confidentiality, understands the principles of confidentiality, and will not share information about 
the client outside the agency. 
7.603 
CHILD WELFARE STAFF QUALIFICATIONS AND TRAINING 
7.603.1 Child Welfare Qualification and Certification Requirements [Eff. 9/1/22] 
The county department and/or the Hotline County Connection Center shall ensure that all staff who 
perform the following duties meet the required minimum qualifications and fulfill all certification and re-
certification requirements prior to assuming, or continuing to perform, the duties described in this section 
on an independent basis as prescribed by the state department (Section 26.5.109, C.R.S.): 
A. 
Hotline Worker Certification 
1. 
Job duties that require hotline worker certification 
a. 
Engages callers in the phone interview process; 
b. 
Responds to inquiries; and/or, 
c. 
Executes all components of the information gathering process as outlined in the 
Code of Colorado Regulations. 
2. 
Minimum Educational Requirements 
a. 
A high school diploma or general equivalency diploma (GED) 
3. 
Initial Certification Requirements 
a. 
To be certified as a hotline worker and perform the duties as outlined in 7.603.1, 
A, 1, a-c, the staff person shall: 
1. 
Complete the pre-service hotline training for workers; 
2. 
Complete all required Transfer of Learning exercises with the assistance 
of a supervisor, or supervisor’s designee; and, 
3. 
Demonstrate competence through pre-and post-tests, trainer 
observation, and verification by the county department as outlined in the 
request for certification. 
4. 
Re-certification Requirements

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
17 
a. 
To be re-certified as a hotline worker, the staff person must participate in ten (10) 
hours of in-service training each state fiscal year. Qualifying in-service training 
exercises include: 
1. 
Quality assurance exercises by the supervisor; 
2. 
Observation and/or participation in RED Teams; and/or, 
3. 
Training focused in the area of the hotline worker’s primary job 
responsibilities. 
B. 
Hotline Staff Supervisor Certification 
1. 
Job duties that require hotline staff supervisor certification 
a. 
Oversees the work of hotline workers, ensuring that all calls received by the 
county, or hotline county connection center, have information gathered and 
documented in the state automated case management system, and may 
participate in the RED team process; 
b. 
Determines jurisdiction of referrals and child welfare inquiries, coordinates their 
transfer to the appropriate county departments, ensures delivery of referrals to 
law enforcement and/or judicial partners as needed; 
c. 
Monitors the workload of hotline workers and data associated with the operations 
of the county departments, or county connection centers, hotline staff, 
determines resource needs to achieve the goals of the hotline staff, and makes 
recommendations to higher level management; 
d. 
Meets with hotline workers individually and in groups to counsel staff regarding 
rules, policies, procedures, data trends, and laws; reviews specific calls, actions 
taken and problems encountered; 
e. 
Establishes individual training needs of hotline workers and ensures that an 
effective training plan is in place; and, 
f. 
Establishes individual performance plans, reviews the performance of hotline 
workers on a periodic basis, including review and evaluation of hotline workers’ 
call recordings, and completes an annual performance evaluation. 
2. 
Minimum Educational Requirements 
a. 
A high school diploma or GED; and, 
b. 
Three (3) years of professional child welfare experience in a public or private 
human services agency. 
3. 
Initial Certification Requirements 
a. 
To be certified as a hotline staff supervisor and perform the duties as outlined in 
7.603.1, B, 1, a-f, the staff person shall: 
1. 
Complete the pre-service hotline training for supervisors;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
18 
2. 
Complete all required Transfer of Learning exercises with the assistance 
of a supervisor, or supervisor’s designee; and, 
3. 
Demonstrate competence through pre- and post-tests, trainer 
observation, and verification by the county department as outlined in the 
request for certification. 
4. 
Re-certification Requirements 
a. 
To be re-certified as a hotline staff supervisor, the staff person must participate in 
ten (10) hours of in-service training each year. Qualifying in-service training 
exercises include: 
1. 
Quality assurance exercises by the supervisor; 
2. 
Observation and/or participation in RED teams; and/or, 
3. 
Training focused in the area of the hotline staff supervisor’s primary job 
responsibilities. 
C. 
Social Caseworker Trainee Certification 
The social caseworker trainee is a professional training level position with intensive supervision 
and/or coaching by the county department in which assignments are limited to fifty percent (50%) 
of the county’s average workload or ten (10) assessments and/or cases at any given time, 
whichever is less, and are planned and devised to develop and teach professional social 
casework techniques, basic foundations, and concepts appropriate to the assigned areas. 
1. 
Job duties that require Social Caseworker Trainee certification 
a. 
Provides prevention, assessment, and/or ongoing casework services for Program 
Areas 4, 5, and/or 6; 
b. 
Provides intensive family services as an alternative to out-of-home placement; 
c. 
Recruits and/or supervises certified foster family care homes, certified and non-
certified kinship family care homes, and adoptive family homes; 
d. 
Conducts home studies, grants certifications, and monitors the quality of care 
provided in foster family care homes, certified and non-certified kinship care 
homes, and adoptive family homes; 
e. 
Provides individual and/or family counseling on an ongoing or crisis basis to 
children and/or youth and their parents, families and/or caregivers; 
f. 
Provides training to local community partners regarding the referral, assessment, 
and service provision process. 
2. 
Minimum Educational Requirements 
a. 
A bachelor’s degree from a higher education institution with course work related 
to the job responsibilities of child welfare social caseworker. Course work 
examples can include and are not limited to, the development of human 
behavior, child development, family intervention techniques, diagnostic 
measures, or therapeutic techniques.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
19 
3. 
Initial Certification Requirements 
a. 
To be certified as a social caseworker trainee and perform the duties as outlined 
in 7.603.1, C, 1, a-f, the staff person shall: 
1. 
Complete the pre-service training for new social caseworkers; and, 
2. 
Demonstrate an emerging level of competence through pre- and post-
tests, trainer observation, and verification by the county department as 
outlined in the request for trainee certification. 
4. 
Re-certification Requirements 
a. 
The social caseworker trainee certification is valid for up to one (1) year from 
initial certification date. Prior to the end of the certification year, the county 
department must request social caseworker certification to allow the staff person 
to continue to perform the duties described in 7.603.1, C, 1, a-f, or 7.603.1, D, 1, 
a-f. 
D. 
Social Caseworker Certification 
1. 
Job duties that require social caseworker certification 
a. 
Provides prevention, assessment, and/or ongoing casework services for Program 
Areas 4, 5, and/or 6; 
b. 
Provides intensive family services as an alternative to out-of-home placement; 
c. 
Recruits and/or supervises certified foster family care homes, certified and non-
certified kinship family care homes, and adoptive family homes; 
d. 
Conducts home studies, grants certifications, and monitors the quality of care 
provided in foster family care homes, certified and non-certified kinship care 
homes, and adoptive family homes; 
e. 
Provides individual and/or family counseling on an ongoing or crisis basis to 
children and/or youth and their parents, families and/or caregivers; 
f. 
Provides training to local community partners regarding the referral, assessment, 
and service provision process. 
2. 
Minimum Educational Requirements 
a. 
A bachelor’s degree from a higher education institution with course work related 
to the job responsibilities of child welfare social caseworker. Course work 
examples can include and are not limited to, the development of human 
behavior, child development, family intervention techniques, diagnostic 
measures, or therapeutic techniques; and, 
b. 
Professional, internship, or volunteer work experience in a human services 
related agency. 
3. 
Initial Certification Requirements

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
20 
a. 
To be certified as a social caseworker and perform the duties as outlined in 
7.603.1, D, 1, a-f, the staff person shall: 
1. 
Complete the pre-service training for new social caseworkers; 
2. 
Complete all required transfer of learning exercises with the assistance 
of a supervisor, or supervisor’s designee; and, 
3. 
Demonstrate competence through pre- and post-tests, trainer 
observation, and verification by the county department as outlined in the 
request for certification. 
b. 
Upon initial certification as a social caseworker, the staff person receives dual 
certification as a hotline worker. 
c. 
If a newly hired social caseworker has been certified as a social caseworker in 
the state of Colorado within the previous four (4) years, pre-service training for 
new social caseworkers is not required. 
4. 
Re-certification Requirements 
a. 
To be re-certified as a social caseworker, the staff person must participate in 
forty (40) hours of in-service training each state fiscal year, with a minimum of 
sixteen (16) of those hours focused in the area of the social caseworker’s primary 
job responsibilities. Qualifying in-service training includes, but is not limited to: 
1. 
Safety; 
2. 
Risk; 
3. 
Permanency; 
4. 
Well-being; 
5. 
Assessment; 
6. 
Interviewing; 
7. 
Family engagement; 
8. 
Legal issues; 
9. 
Indian Child Welfare Act; 
10. 
Foster care, kinship care and adoption; 
11. 
Effects of child abuse/neglect on development; 
12. 
Principles of strengths-based, family-focused, child-centered and 
culturally responsive case planning and case management; 
13. 
Sexual abuse issues; 
14. 
Behavioral health issues;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
21 
15. 
Domestic violence issues; 
16. 
Cultural disparity; and/or 
17. 
Other innovative, emerging, promising, and/or best practices. 
E. 
Social Casework Supervisor certification 
1. 
Job duties that require social casework supervisor certification 
a. 
Provides direct supervision to social casework staff and para-professionals; 
b. 
Oversees the work of the unit, may make screening decisions regarding referrals, 
and assigns caseloads to workers based on the knowledge and skills of the 
social caseworkers in that unit; 
c. 
Monitors the workload of the unit, determines resource needs to achieve the goal 
of the unit, and makes recommendations to higher level management; 
d. 
Meets with social caseworkers individually and in groups, and counsels regarding 
rules, policies, procedures, data and laws; reviews specific cases, actions taken, 
and problems encountered; and creates an environment that allows for 
professional growth; 
e. 
Establishes individual training needs of social caseworkers, and ensures that an 
effective training plan is in place; 
f. 
Establishes individual performance plans, reviews the performance of social 
caseworkers on a periodic basis, and completes an annual performance 
evaluation. 
2. 
Minimum Educational Requirements 
a. 
A bachelor’s degree from a higher education institution with course work related 
to the job responsibilities of child welfare social casework supervisor. Course 
work examples can include and are not limited to, the development of human 
behavior, child development, family intervention techniques, diagnostic 
measures, or therapeutic techniques; and, 
b. 
Three (3) years of professional, internship, or volunteer work experience in a 
human services related agency; or, 
c. 
A master’s degree or higher in a social work or human behavioral sciences field; 
and, 
d. 
Two (2) years of professional, internship, or volunteer work experience in a 
human services related agency. 
3. 
Initial Certification Requirements 
a. 
To be certified as a social casework supervisor, and perform the duties outlined 
in 7.603.1, D, 1, a-f, the staff person shall:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
22 
1. 
Complete the pre-service training for new social caseworkers if not 
previously certified within the previous four (4) years in the State of 
Colorado; 
2. 
Complete the pre-service training for new social caseworker supervisors; 
3. 
Complete all required transfer of learning exercises with the assistance 
of a supervisor, or supervisor’s designee; and, 
4. 
Demonstrate competence through pre- and post-tests, trainer 
observation, and verification by the county department as outlined in the 
request for certification. 
b. 
Upon certification as a social casework supervisor, the staff person receives dual 
certification as a hotline staff supervisor. 
4. 
Re-certification requirements 
a. 
To be re-certified as a social casework supervisor, the staff person must 
participate in forty (40) hours of in-service training each state fiscal year, with a 
minimum of sixteen (16) of those hours focused in the area of the social 
casework supervisor’s primary job responsibilities. Qualifying in-service training 
includes, but is not limited to: 
1. 
Leadership and management; 
2. 
Data informed practice; 
3. 
Worker safety; 
4. 
Assessment; 
5. 
Interviewing; 
6. 
Family engagement; 
7. 
Legal issues; 
8. 
Indian Child Welfare Act; 
9. 
Foster care, kinship care, and adoption; 
10. 
Effects of child abuse/neglect on development; 
11. 
Principles of strengths-based, family-focused, child-centered, and 
culturally responsive case planning and case management; 
12. 
Sexual abuse issues; 
13. 
Behavioral health issues; 
14. 
Domestic violence issues; 
15. 
Cultural disparity; and/or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
23 
16. 
Other innovative, emerging, promising, and/or best practices. 
F. 
Case Aide/Life Skills worker 
1. 
Minimum educational requirements 
a. 
This position has obtained a high school diploma or a General Equivalency 
Diploma (GED); and, 
b. 
Has six (6) months of full-time public contact in human services or a related field. 
2. 
Substitution for public contact shall include successful completion of a certificate program 
and/or college course equivalent to public contact in Human services or a related field. 
G. 
Temporary Educational Waiver Process 
If proven recruitment difficulty exists, county departments may request a temporary waiver of the 
educational requirements by submitting a request to the Colorado Department of Human 
Services, Division of Child Welfare, which includes the following information: 
1. 
For Initial Hiring: 
a. 
Documentation of the recruiting efforts and the identified difficulties; 
b. 
Description of the specific services to be provided by the position, the title of the 
position, and the name of the candidate; 
c. 
Justification as to how the candidate meets all other qualifications for the 
position; and, 
d. 
A plan on how and when the candidate will meet the requirements contained in 
these rules. 
A temporary educational waiver may be granted for up to two (2) years, with an 
option for the county department to request one (1) additional year. The progress 
on the plan outlined by the temporary waiver will be assessed every six (6) 
months by the Colorado Department of Human Services, Division of Child 
Welfare, and can be revoked or withdrawn at any time if the requirements are 
unable to be fulfilled within the identified timeframe. 
2. 
For County Directors: 
County directors who also provide direct supervision of child welfare services and who do 
not meet the minimum qualifications for the casework supervisor position must apply, and 
qualify, for a temporary educational waiver to provide these services. 
H. 
Training Substitutions 
If a newly hired person has previous experience and has successfully completed comparable 
child welfare training to the pre-service training for hotline workers, hotline worker supervisors, 
social caseworkers, or social casework supervisors, the county department may request a 
training substitution from the Colorado Department of Human Services, Division of Child Welfare 
Training unit. The following information must be submitted:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
24 
1. 
Documentation of previous child welfare training including a description of the training 
and documentation of training completion; 
2. 
Documentation of previous child welfare experience; 
3. 
Completion of state automated case management system navigation training if applicable 
4. 
Completion of the Colorado Family Safety and Risk Assessment training, if applicable; 
and, 
5. 
Completion of county-specific Transfer of Learning exercises designed to prepare the 
worker to perform required job functions 
Certification will be awarded after requirements of Section 7.603.1, H, 1-5, have been 
satisfied. 
7.603.2 Child Welfare Reporting to Inquiries Regarding Child Welfare Certification Status 
A. 
The Colorado Department of Human Services will respond to county department inquiries 
regarding an individual’s Colorado Child Welfare Training Academy certification status within five 
(5) working days of receiving the inquiry. The Division of Child Welfare will provide the individual’s 
current certification status and applicable dates in their response. 
B. 
The Colorado Department of Human Services will respond to any other inquiries regarding an 
individual’s Colorado Child Welfare Training Academy certification status within ten (10) working 
days of receiving the inquiry. The Division of Child Welfare will provide the individual’s current 
certification status and applicable dates in their response. 
7.603.3 Decertification Review Process 
The decertification review process applies to any of the following Child Welfare Training Academy 
certification types: hotline worker; hotline staff supervisor; social caseworker trainee; social caseworker; 
and social casework supervisor. 
A. 
Upon notice from a county department of a confirmed incident of falsification, within one (1) 
working day the Colorado Department of Human Services shall suspend the individual’s access 
to Colorado’s Comprehensive Child Welfare Information System known as Trails. 
B. 
Upon completion of notification of a confirmed incident of falsification in accordance with section 
7.601.81.D, the county department shall provide its original investigatory file to the Division of 
Child Welfare within ten (10) working days. The county department’s investigatory file shall 
include, at minimum, the following information: 
1. 
Copies of the specific documentation falsified in the child welfare record. 
2. 
Notes from interviews and written communications with any witnesses contacted as part 
of the county department’s investigation. 
3. 
The names and contact information for all county department staff involved in the 
investigation. 
4. 
Documentation of the steps completed to confirm falsification. 
5. 
Any other documents or affidavits relevant to the suspected incident of falsification.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
25 
C. 
The county department will complete its investigation and submit a revised investigatory file with 
any additional findings, as applicable, to the Division of Child Welfare within sixty (60) calendar 
days from the date of the initial notice to the Division of Child Welfare of a confirmed incident of 
falsification. The county department shall still adhere to notification timelines outlined in section 
7.601.81. The revised investigatory file shall include, at minimum, all elements outlined in section 
7.603.3.B.1-5. 
D. 
The county department shall redact personal identifying information for the county clients and 
reporting parties contained in the investigatory file to comply with applicable state and federal law 
regarding the confidentiality of child welfare records or other protected information. Redactions 
shall include but are not limited to: reporting party names and addresses, social security 
numbers, and information pertaining to other parties that the individual under review does not 
have a right to access. 
E. 
The county department shall provide its original investigatory file to the individual under review 
within ten (10) working days from the date the county department completed notification to the 
Division of Child Welfare of a confirmed incident of falsification, in accordance with section 
7.601.81.D. The county department shall mail a copy of the investigatory file by certified U.S. Mail 
to the last known address of the individual under review. If requested by the individual under 
review, the investigatory file may be transmitted through electronic means. 
F. 
When the county department sends a revised investigatory file with any additional findings, the 
county department shall provide a copy of the county’s revised investigatory file to the individual 
under review within five (5) working days from the date it is submitted by the county department. 
The revised investigatory file shall include, at minimum, all elements outlined in section 
7.603.3.B.1-5. The county department shall mail a copy of the revised investigatory file by 
certified U.S. mail to the last known address of the individual under review. If requested by the 
individual under review, the investigatory file may be transmitted through electronic means. 
G. 
Within five (5) working days of receipt of the county department’s complete investigatory file, the 
Division of Child Welfare’s Director (or their designee) shall determine if the individual under 
review’s state-issued Child Welfare Training Academy certification will be temporarily suspended. 
The Division of Child Welfare’s Director (or their designee) shall consider the nature and scope of 
the falsification of child welfare records, any harm resulting from the falsification, and the 
necessity to protect the public’s health, safety, or welfare. If the Division of Child Welfare’s 
Director (or their designee) determines that a temporary suspension of the individual’s Child 
Welfare Training Academy certification is not necessary, the individual’s Trails access eligibility 
will be reinstated. 
H. 
Decertification Review Requirements 
1. 
Following the determination to temporarily suspend the individual under review’s Child 
Welfare Training Academy certification, the Division of Child Welfare shall immediately 
issue an initial written notice of the temporary suspension to the individual. The written 
notice will notify the individual that a review process to determine if the individual will be 
decertified will be initiated. The initial written notice to the individual shall be personally 
served on the individual unless service is waived. 
2. 
The initial written notice from the Division of Child Welfare to the individual shall include, 
at minimum, the following information: 
a. 
The individual’s current Child Welfare Training Academy certification type. 
b. 
The effective date and expiration date of the current Child Welfare Training 
Academy certification type.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
26 
c. 
The name of the county department that notified the Division of Child Welfare of 
the confirmed incident of falsification, in accordance with section 7.601.81.D., 
and the date the notification was received. 
d. 
A description of the falsification of child welfare records which was confirmed by 
the county department, subject to redaction of any personally identifiable 
information of county child welfare clients. 
e. 
Notice that a temporary suspension of the individual’s current Child Welfare 
Training Academy certification is in effect until a review panel decertification 
determination is reached. 
f. 
The process by which the confirmed incident of falsification will be reviewed to 
determine if the individual will be decertified from Child Welfare Training 
Academy certification. 
g. 
The date the decertification review panel is scheduled to occur, and how the 
individual can attend in person or virtually. 
h. 
How to request reasonable accommodations in accordance with the Americans 
with Disabilities Act, should such accommodations be necessary for the 
individual to attend the decertification review in person or virtually. 
i. 
Notice that the individual is permitted, but not required, to present documentation 
or witnesses for the review panel’s consideration. The individual shall provide 
any such documentation to the Division of Child Welfare no later than twenty-one 
(21) calendar days after the initial written notice date of receipt. 
j. 
Notice that the individual is permitted, but not required, to be represented by 
legal counsel throughout the state level decertification review, hearings, and 
appeal. 
k. 
Notice that the individual is permitted to request an extension of up to thirty (30) 
calendar days regarding the scheduled decertification review panel date to 
prepare for the review. 
l. 
Notice that the individual is permitted to request the scheduled decertification 
review be held in abeyance when a criminal prosecution is pending arising out of 
the same report. 
m. 
That a copy of this written notice will be provided to the county department that 
notified the Division of Child Welfare of the confirmed incident of falsification in 
accordance with section 7.601.81.D. 
3. 
The Division of Child Welfare will provide the county department that notified the Division 
of Child Welfare of the confirmed incident of falsification with a copy of the initial written 
notice sent to the individual. The Division of Child Welfare shall redact the individual’s 
contact information from the copy of the initial written notice sent to the individual that is 
provided to the county department. 
I. 
When reasonable accommodations are requested by the individual under review to attend the 
decertification review, such accommodations shall be provided by the Colorado Department of 
Human Services in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. No later editions 
or amendments are included. Copies may be obtained or examined during regular business 
hours by contacting the Division of Child Welfare’s Director, at the Colorado Department of

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
27 
Human Services, 1575 Sherman Street, Denver, Colorado 80203; or any state of Colorado 
publications depository library. 
J. 
The individual shall have the right to appeal even if a criminal prosecution arising from the same 
confirmed incident of falsification is pending. The Colorado Department of Human Services shall 
hold in abeyance the administrative process pending the outcome of the criminal action if 
requested by the individual. 
7.603.4 Review Panel Decertification Determination 
A. 
The Colorado Department of Human Services shall convene a five (5) person review panel 
comprised of the Division Of Child Welfare’s Director (or their designee); a representative of the 
Division of Aging and Adult Protective Services; a representative of the Administrative Review 
Division; a county department representative; and a person with lived experience from either the 
Colorado Department of Human Services’ Family Voice Council or the Division of Child Welfare’s 
Family Advisory Council. 
1. 
All review panel members will be required to sign an acknowledgement of confidentiality 
and a conflict of interest disclosure. 
2. 
When a conflict of interest exists for one of the review panel members, an alternative 
representative shall be designated by the assigned program area or agency they are 
representing as listed in 7.603.4.A. 
3. 
County department representatives shall not be from a county the individual under review 
was previously employed by. When a county department has a conflict of interest, a 
representative from a different county department shall be designated. 
4. 
When a person with lived experience from either the Colorado Department of Human 
Services’ Family Voice Council or the Division of Child Welfare’s Family Advisory Council 
is not available to participate in the review panel, then the Division of Child Welfare will 
make reasonable efforts to include a person with lived experience from a county 
department or partner agency’s child welfare lived expert groups. 
5. 
Persons with lived experience participating as panelists may be reimbursed for their 
reasonable expenses incurred in participating in the review panel. 
6. 
Proceedings before the review panel shall be recorded or transcribed. 
B. 
The Division of Child Welfare will provide a copy of the complete investigatory file to the review 
panel members by the deadline set by the panel. 
C. 
The five (5) person review panel shall review the circumstances surrounding the county 
department’s confirmation of the incident of falsification of child welfare records, and issue an 
initial agency decision determining whether to decertify the individual from their Child Welfare 
Training Academy certification. 
 
D. 
After consideration of the county department’s complete investigatory file and any additional 
evidence submitted by the individual under review or the county which confirmed the falsification , 
the review panel may decertify the individual from their Child Welfare Training Academy 
certification if the review panel finds the county department’s finding of a confirmed incident of 
falsification to be supported by a preponderance of the evidence. In determining whether 
decertification is appropriate , the review panel may consider the following factors:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
28 
1. 
The nature of the records that were falsified; 
2. 
The quantity of confirmed falsified entries in child welfare records created by the 
individual; 
3. 
The extent to which the falsification incident impacted the county department’s client(s); 
4. 
The risk the falsification incident posed to the safety of a child/youth, a parent, or 
community member; 
5. 
Whether the falsification incident caused or contributed to a final custody determination in 
a court involved case; 
6. 
The risk of harm to the public trust caused by the falsification incident; 
7. 
The need to further protect the public’s health, safety, or welfare; 
8. 
Whether the individual had previously been confirmed to have falsified child welfare 
records; and 
9. 
Any other relevant factors presented to the review panel for consideration. 
E. 
No later than thirty-six (36) calendar days after the initial written notice is personally served on the 
individual, the review panel shall issue an initial agency decision , in writing regarding whether it 
is decertifying the individual’s Child Welfare Training Academy certification. 
F. 
The initial agency decision shall be sent to the individual under review by certified U.S. mail to the 
last known address of the individual. A copy of the review panel determination will also be sent to 
the county department. 
G. 
The initial agency decision shall include, at minimum, the following information: 
1. 
The individual’s current Child Welfare Training Academy certification type. 
2. 
The name of the county department that notified the Division of Child Welfare of the 
confirmed incident of falsification in accordance with section 7.601.81.D. 
3. 
A description of the confirmed incident of falsification which was submitted by the county 
department, along with the definition of a confirmed incident of falsification as stated in 
section 7.601.81.A. 
4. 
A description of the evidence presented to the review panel and the review panel’s 
findings of fact. 
5. 
The outcome of the review process and effective date of the review panel determination. 
6. 
When the review panel decides to decertify the individual, the initial agency decision must 
also include: 
a. 
A description of the review panel’s application of the factors stated in section 
7.603.4.D to the evidence and the review panel’s findings of fact. 
b. 
A description of the process by which the individual can file exceptions to the 
review panel’s decision to decertify the individual from Child Welfare Training 
Academy certification.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
29 
c. 
An advisement that the failure to file exceptions to provisions of the initial agency 
decision will waive the right to seek judicial review of a final agency decision 
affirming those provisions, 
d. 
Notice that the individual under review’s access to Colorado’s Comprehensive 
Child Welfare Information System known as Trails will remain suspended due to 
lack of proper credentialing. 
e. 
Notice that the individual is permitted, but not required, to be represented by 
legal counsel when filing exceptions . 
H. 
If the review panel determines that decertification of the individual’s Child Welfare Training 
Academy certification is not necessary, the individual’s Trails access eligibility will be reinstated . 
7.603.5 Child Welfare Decertification State Department Office Of Appeals Functions 
A. 
A party seeking a final agency decision that reverses, modifies or remands the initial agency 
decision of the review panel must file exceptions to the decision within fifteen (15) days (plus 
three (3) days for mailing) from the date the initial agency decision is mailed to the parties, or 
within such greater time as the Office of Appeals may allow upon written request. Exceptions 
must state specific grounds for reversal, modification, or remand. 
If the party asserts that the review panel’s findings of fact are not supported by the weight of the 
evidence, the party shall simultaneously with, or prior to the filing of exceptions, request the 
review panel to cause a transcript of all or a portion of the hearing to be filed with the Office of 
Appeals. Within five (5) days of the request for the transcript, the party requesting it shall advance 
the cost therefore to the transcriber designated by the review panel unless prior payment is 
waived by the transcriber.  
A party who is unable to pay the cost of a transcript due to indigency may file a written request 
with the Office of Appeals for permission to submit a copy of the hearing recording instead a of a 
transcript. If submission of the recording is permitted, the review panel shall promptly deliver a 
copy of the recording to the Office of Appeals. 
If the exceptions do not challenge the findings of fact, but instead assert only that the review 
panel improperly interpreted or applied state rules or relevant statutes, no transcript or audio 
recording review is required. 
B. 
The Office of Appeals shall serve a copy of the exceptions on each party by first class mail. Each 
party shall be limited to ten (10) calendar days from the date exceptions are mailed to the parties 
to file a written response to such exceptions. The Office of Appeals shall not permit oral argument 
and shall not consider evidence which was not part of the record before the review panel. 
However, the case may be remanded to the review panel if a party establishes in its exceptions 
that material evidence has been discovered which the party could not with reasonable diligence 
have produced at the hearing. 
 
C. 
The Division of Child Welfare may file exceptions to the initial agency decision, or respond to 
exceptions filed by a party. The division’s exceptions must be filed in compliance with the 
requirements of section 7.603.5.A, above. Exceptions filed by the division shall be treated as 
requesting review of the initial agency decision upon the state department’s own motion. 
D. 
Review shall be conducted by a state adjudicator in the Office of Appeals not directly involved in 
any prior review of the county report being appealed. Review by the Office of Appeals shall

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
30 
determine whether the decision properly interprets and applies the rules of the state department, 
or relevant statutes, and whether the findings of fact and conclusions of law support the decision. 
In the absence of exceptions filed by any party or by the Division of Child Welfare, the office of 
appeals shall review the initial agency decision, and may review the hearing file and/or the 
recordings of proceedings before entering a final agency decision. 
E. 
The Office of Appeals shall mail copies of the final agency decision to all parties by first class 
mail. The final agency decision shall advise the appellant of their right to seek judicial review in 
the State District Court, City and County of Denver, if the appellant had timely filed exceptions to 
the initial agency decision. 
F. 
If the appellant seeks judicial review of the final agency decision, the state department shall be 
responsible for defending the final agency decision on judicial review. 
G. 
In any action in any court challenging a county department’s confirmed incident of falsification, 
the Division of Child Welfare will defend the statutes, rules, and state-mandated procedures 
leading up to the finding, and will defend all county department actions that are consistent with 
statutes, rules, and state-mandated procedures. The Division of Child Welfare shall not be 
responsible for defending the county department for actions that are alleged to be in violation of, 
or inconsistent with, state statutes, state rules or state-mandated procedures. 
H. 
If the final agency decision reverses a review panel determination to decertify, the individual’s 
suspension of access to Colorado’s Comprehensive Child Welfare Information System known as 
Trails shall be lifted. 
7.603.6 Confidentiality of Appeal Records 
A. 
All records submitted by the parties as part of the state level appeal process and all notices, 
orders, agency notes created by or made part of the state department’s agency record shall be 
confidential and shall not be released or disclosed unless otherwise permitted by law. 
B. 
Initial and final agency decisions where information identifying the appellant, reporting parties, 
county clients, or other minors have been blocked out may be released to the public. 
7.604 
ANTI-DISCRIMINATION [Eff. 1/1/15] 
Child welfare services programs shall be administered in compliance with Title II of the Americans with 
Disabilities Act of 1990, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, and 
the requirements of section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. No later editions or amendments are 
included. Copies may be obtained or examined during regular business hours by contacting the Director, 
Division of Child Welfare Services, at the Colorado Department of Human Services, 1575 Sherman 
Street, Denver, Colorado 80203; or any state publications depository library. 
A. 
County department staff shall not deny a person aid, services, or other benefits or opportunity to 
participate therein, solely because of age, race, color, religion, creed, sex, national origin, political 
beliefs, method of payment, sexual orientation, veterans status, or disability. 
B. 
County departments shall make services available to all eligible children and their families, 
including disabled individuals, through hiring qualified staff or through purchase of necessary 
services. 
C. 
County departments must be accessible to all [CLIENTS] and recipients who wish to receive 
services, or the services must be made accessible at an alternate location, as set forth in the 
county written plan.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
31 
D. 
County departments shall have an affirmative action plan and a disability services plan. 
E. 
County departments shall take reasonable and prudent steps to ensure that persons with limited 
English proficiency have meaningful and equal access to programs, services and information free 
of charge. 
F. 
County departments shall take extra care to ensure that the choice of interpreter by a person with 
limited English proficiency is voluntary and made with the knowledge that a competent interpreter 
could be provided by the county department at no cost to the person with limited English 
proficiency upon request. 
G. 
County departments shall post signs in reception areas, intake areas or other entry points in the 
department notifying persons with a physical or mental disability that auxiliary aids and services, 
including sign language, are available upon request. 
7.605 
CONFIDENTIALITY [Eff. 1/1/15] 
Unless authorized in these rules the use or disclosure of information by the county department 
concerning current or former clients is prohibited. 
7.605.1  
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION PROTECTED [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
County departments shall treat all information as confidential according to applicable statutes, 
including, but not limited to, the following: 
1. 
Names and addresses of current or former clients and services provided; 
2. 
Information related to the social and economic conditions or circumstances concerning 
any individual including wage or income information or correspondence obtained from 
any source including state or federal agencies; 
3. 
Agency evaluation of information about any individual; 
4. 
Medical, psychological, or social evaluations including diagnosis or past history of 
disease, or disability of any kind; and, 
5. 
The name, address, and any other identifying information of the reporting party in an 
abuse and/or neglect referral. 
B. 
All confidential information shall be sorted and processed so that there are safeguards to ensure 
no unauthorized personnel can acquire or retrieve the information. 
C. 
When the use of any and all records obtained, created, or used are no longer needed, they shall 
be destroyed or returned. Destruction shall be in a secure manner, such as shredding. 
7.605.2  
PROCEDURES FOR RELEASE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
County departments shall obtain written permission from the individual or family for the release of 
information, unless such release is otherwise authorized in these rules or by law or unless the 
referring agency has already secured written permission. 
B. 
The release or use of information concerning current or former clients shall be restricted to 
persons or agency representatives who are subject to standards of confidentiality that are 
comparable to those of the state and county departments.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
32 
C. 
County departments shall apply these rules to requests for information from such groups or 
individuals as legislators, governmental authority, the courts, or law enforcement officials, as from 
any other source. Whenever there is a question about the legality of releasing information to 
persons seeking information from the county department, the requestor shall be advised to 
request the court to require the county department to produce the desired records or information 
within the custody or control of the county department. 
7.605.21 
County Responsible for Processing Inquiries Concerning Abuse and/or Neglect 
Referrals [Eff. 1/1/15] 
The county department that entered the founded report of abuse and/or neglect shall process all inquiries 
submitted by the following types of entities or individuals: 
A. 
Departments of human or social services, Court-Appointed Special Advocate Program (CASA), 
the courts or individuals authorized to review records and reports of abuse and/or neglect; 
B. 
Individuals or child placement agencies approved to conduct home studies for out of home 
placement providers; 
C. 
Governing bodies for the purposes of carrying out their duties; and, 
D. 
Inquiries from individuals who have been involved with the county department requesting a copy 
of the information pertinent to himself or herself or as having the legal responsibility or 
authorization to care for, treat, or supervise a child who is the subject of a report or record. The 
exception to this is employment and volunteer related background check inquiries (see sections 
7.605.22, C and 7.701.32). 
7.605.22 
Sharing of Confidential Information Between Governmental Agencies – 
Administrative Reviews [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
County departments shall share appropriate information with other human or social services 
agencies and community professionals who care for, treat, or supervise a child to ensure 
coordination of services and protection of the child. Agencies or individuals receiving the 
information must have a need to know the information for the purposes of investigations and case 
management in the provision of services or the administration of their respective programs. 
County departments shall require that these agencies and persons have confidentiality standards. 
Release of information shall be obtained, when required. 
B. 
Individuals participating in a kinship, foster care, or alternative service review of a child at the 
invitation of the county department shall be considered as part of the administration of the child 
welfare services program for purposes of handling confidential information. The role of such 
persons is to contribute information essential to the delivery of services to the child and the child's 
family. Information concerning the child and the child's family shall be considered confidential by 
all parties to the review system. Releases of information shall be obtained, when required. 
C. 
Provisions for employment and volunteer related background check inquiries will be followed as 
outlined in section 7.701.32 “Use of Reports and Records of Child Abuse or Neglect for 
Background and Employment Inquiries”. 
7.605.23 
Release of Confidential Information in Court Proceedings – Reporting Party [Eff. 
1/1/15] 
A. 
In a criminal or civil proceeding in which the county case record is subpoenaed or any county 
representative is ordered to testify concerning a current or former client, the court shall be 
advised through proper channels of the statutory provisions, policies, or rules and regulations

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
33 
concerning disclosure of information. Confidential information shall not be released in a judicial 
proceeding unless so ordered by the court. 
B. 
Confidential information, such as the identity of the reporting party, shall not be released in a 
judicial proceeding unless so ordered by the court. 
7.605.24 
Release of Confidential Information to Clients [Eff. 1/1/15] 
County departments shall define in writing and submit to the State department a process by which clients 
and former clients may obtain access to their case records. The following elements shall be included in 
the process: 
A. 
Designated source (individual and position) within the county department who will handle client 
requests for records access; 
B. 
Directions for maintaining a record of the requests; 
C. 
Time frames for responding to requests; 
D. 
Directions for individuals requesting access to records; 
E. 
How editing is to occur and by whom (removal or reporting party information; removal of other 
confidential information which is protected by law); 
F. 
Charges involved for the requestor; and, 
G. 
Warning regarding the sharing of confidential information by the requestor. 
7.605.25 
Release of Confidential Information for Conflict Resolution Purposes [Eff. 1/1/15] 
For purposes of carrying out the conflict resolution duties as set forth in section 19-3-211, C.R.S., county 
governing bodies shall be given access to child abuse and/or neglect records or reports related to specific 
grievances under their purview. County departments shall ensure that members understand the 
confidential nature of such information. 
7.605.3  
USE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION – RELEASE NOT REQUIRED [Eff. 1/1/15] 
7.605.31 
Internal Inquiries [Eff. 1/1/15] 
County departments shall perform inquiries into the state automated case management system for 
information pertaining to their own internal county department operations, including, but not limited to: 
A. 
Investigations and assessments of allegation of abuse and/or neglect; 
B. 
Certifying individuals as county kinship providers, county foster and/or adoptive homes; and, 
C. 
Screening of county department employees and volunteers if such persons’ responsibilities 
include direct contact with children. 
7.605.32 
Assessments of Known or Suspected Incidents of Child Abuse and/or Neglect [Eff. 
1/1/15] 
County departments shall provide child abuse and/or neglect records and reports to the law enforcement 
agency, district attorney, coroner, or county department investigating or assessing a report of a known or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
34 
suspected incident of child abuse and/or neglect or treating a child or family which is the subject of the 
report. 
7.605.4  
PERMITTED USES OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION [Eff. 1/1/15] 
To the extent county departments may access and use confidential information as described above, such 
access and use is permitted only for purposes directly connected with the administration of child welfare 
programs and related State Department activities which include: 
A. 
Administration of county child welfare programs: 
1. 
Establishing of eligibility; 
2. 
Determining amount and type of services to be provided; and, 
3. 
Providing services. 
B. 
Any investigation, prosecution, or criminal or civil proceeding in connection with the administration 
of the program. 
C. 
Any records or reports that are unconfirmed may only be used to assist in future risk or safety 
assessments. 
7.605.5  
PENALTY FOR UNAUTHORIZED RELEASE [Eff. 1/1/15] 
Any person who willfully permits or who encourages the release of data or information related to abuse 
and/or neglect contained in the state automated case management system to persons not permitted 
access to such information, commits a Class 1 misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in 
Section 18-1.3-501, C.R.S. 
7.606 
CHILD WELFARE GRIEVANCE RESOLUTION PROCESS [Eff. 1/1/15] 
The governing body of each county, and city and county, shall establish a grievance process. A grievance 
filed by a complainant concerning the conduct of a county department employee can be submitted to the 
county department, the Colorado Department of Human Services Client Services unit, or the Office of The 
Child Protection Ombudsman. 
The following requirements apply to the grievance process: 
A. 
Definitions 
“Grievance” means a complaint filed by a complainant regarding the conduct of an employee of a 
county department of social services in performing his/her duties under Article 3 of the Children's 
Code. “Grievance” does not include complaints regarding conduct by the courts, attorneys, law 
enforcement officials, employees of the State, foster parents or other providers of services to 
children, or other family members. 
“Complainant” means any person who was the subject of an investigation of a report of child 
abuse or neglect or any parent, guardian, or legal custodian of a child who is the subject of a 
report of child abuse or neglect and brings a grievance against a county department in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 19-3-211, C.R.S. 
“Conduct” means the manner in which a county department employee behaves when performing 
his/her duties under Article 3 of the Children’s Code. If an employee makes a decision that is 
appealable under Colorado statutes and the rules governing child welfare services, an individual

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
35 
may pursue those remedies. The grievance resolution process does not modify the time frames 
for pursuing the other forms of relief available under Colorado statutes and the rules governing 
child welfare services. 
“Governing body” means the board of county commissioners of a county, or a city council of a city 
and county, in accordance with Section 19-1-103(54), C.R.S. 
“Recommendation” means a proposed course of action that may be implemented by a county 
director to resolve a grievance. These proposed actions may include reassigning a case to a 
different employee, requiring an employee to receive training, or administering disciplinary action 
to an employee, subject to applicable safeguards afforded to the employee through the personnel 
system under which the employee is employed. 
B. 
Time Frames for Resolving Grievances 
Any grievance shall be forwarded to the county child welfare director for internal resolution within 
ten (10) working days after it has been received by the county department. 
The county child welfare director shall act on the grievance within twenty (20) calendar days after 
they receive it. If the county department has resolved the grievance to the complainant's 
satisfaction, it will issue a written final decision within thirty-five (35) days of receipt of the 
grievance. If the county department is unable to resolve the grievance to the complainant's 
satisfaction and upon the request of the complainant, the county department shall refer the 
grievance to the Office of The Child Protection Ombudsman. 
C. 
Grievance Process Information 
Each county department shall post information about the grievance process on the county 
department’s public-facing website or otherwise provide information concerning the grievance 
process to individuals involved in the county child welfare system. 
D. 
Annual Reports 
On or before July 31 of each year, every county or city and county shall submit to the State 
Department an annual report regarding the resolution of grievances pursuant to this section. At a 
minimum, this report shall include: 
1. 
The number of grievances received by the county child welfare director, the number of 
grievances referred to the governing board, and the actual time frames for resolving 
grievances at each level. 
2. 
A brief description of the disposition of the grievances, including the number that were 
concluded without any action taken, the number which were substantiated, the number 
resolved by case reassignment, the number resolved by requiring additional training, the 
number resolved by imposing disciplinary action against a county employee, and the 
number resolved in other ways; and, 
3. 
A copy of its county grievance policy. 
E. 
Counties shall publicize: 
1. 
The availability of the process for all dependency and neglect cases through the “Notice 
of Rights and Remedies” and by informing child welfare clients, guardians, and legal 
custodians of the process during the initial contacts with parties and periodically 
throughout the provision of services related to dependency and neglect cases.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
36 
2. 
The rights and remedies for families as specified in Section 7.601.31. 
3. 
Any other information about the process as deemed relevant by the governing 
body. 
7.607 
COUNTY RESPONSIBILITIES FOR PURCHASE OF SERVICE, CONTRACTING AND 
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE [Eff. 1/1/15] 
7.607.1  
DEFINITIONS [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
“Administrative services” are personal services delivered by an individual or organization in lieu of 
the services being delivered directly by county department employees within the Merit System or 
county personnel system. 
B. 
“Program services” are direct program costs. 
1. 
Non-contractual program case services are a type of program service obtained by 
purchase for a specific client or client groups without the use of a contract. These involve 
a direct payment to a client or one-time or irregular vendor payment for services provided 
to a specific client where a contract would be difficult or impossible to obtain. 
2. 
Contractual program services are obtained by purchase for a specific client or client 
groups and a contract is required. 
7.607.2  
CONTRACTING REQUIREMENTS [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
The county department shall enter into a contract before the initiation of administrative or program 
services, except for non-contractual program case services identified in this section. 
B. 
The county department shall initiate a written corrective action plan or terminate the contract 
when it determines that services do not comply with the terms of the contract. 
C. 
The county department has direct responsibility for, and shall not purchase activities of: 
1. 
Service eligibility determination or redetermination; 
2. 
Development of the Services Agreement or Family Services Plan; 
3. 
Authorization of purchased services; 
4. 
Service fee determination; and, 
5. 
Monitoring of purchased services. 
D. 
County department employees shall not act as a provider of purchased program services. 
E. 
The county shall purchase services only when the rates of payment for services do not exceed 
the amounts reasonable and necessary to assure the quality of service. Reasonable means the 
cost does not exceed the community prevailing rate. Necessary means the service is directly 
related to the client's need. 
F. 
When contractors are required by statute to be licensed, registered, or certified in order to 
perform the purchased service, county departments of social services shall assure that such 
requirements are met, before the execution of the contract. In addition to or in the absence of 
such statutory requirements, the contractor shall meet standards or criteria as established by the

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
37 
State Department. All personnel engaged in the administration or direct delivery of services 
purchased by the county department shall meet qualifications as provided under Merit System 
rules and regulations or an approved county personnel system. 
G. 
The county department shall purchase services only from contractors independent of the county. 
State reimbursement shall be available only for purchase of service contracts where the 
relationship between the county department of social services and the contractor is a relationship 
of employer-independent contractor, not that of employer-employee. 
H. 
In cases where the contractor status is not clear, status resolution shall be in favor of the 
employee status classification. 
I. 
For program or administrative contracts in the amount $10,000 or less, the county department 
may use its own selection criteria for awarding purchase of service contracts. 
J. 
The county department shall establish a separate file for each contract in excess of $10,000 and 
include the following documentation: 
1. 
Supporting the basis for award cost or price; and, 
2. 
Identifying the procurement method used (formal advertising or negotiation). 
a. 
If formal advertising was used, the county shall include descriptive material used 
to solicit bids and copies of published bid solicitation notices. 
b. 
If negotiation was used, include justification for using this procurement method. 
Justification shall include one or more of the five acceptable reasons for 
negotiation listed below. 
K. 
The county department shall use the most formal procurement method that is possible and 
practical. 
1. 
Formal advertising is the procurement method that involves open and free competition 
(i.e., public notice of bid solicitations, a clear and adequate description of the technical 
requirements for the service to be procured, sealed bids, and the public opening of bids). 
2. 
Procurements may be negotiated if it is not practicable or feasible to use formal 
advertising. Generally, such procurements may be negotiated if one or more of the 
following conditions prevail: 
a. 
The public exigency will not permit the delay incident to advertising. 
b. 
The material or service to be procured is available from only one person or firm. 
 
c. 
The contract is for personal or professional services, or for any service to be 
rendered by a university, college, or other educational institution. (Personal 
services here refer to a contract with an individual for the services of that 
individual. Professional services refer to services rendered by a person or 
organization licensed or certified by the state.) 
d. 
No acceptable bids have been received after formal advertising.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
38 
e. 
Formal advertising is otherwise not practicable or feasible, and negotiation is 
authorized by applicable law, rules, or regulations. 
L. 
Excluded from requirements of this section, “Purchase of Services,” are services purchased 
under the Employment First Program. 
M. 
Any county department and child placement agency entering into a contract for the provision of 
foster care services shall include a provision in the contract that recognizes a right of the State 
Department or county department to recover any funds misused by the Child Placement Agency 
and to withhold subsequent payments. The provision in the contract shall provide for an appeal of 
the decision to recover or withhold the funds. 
7.607.3  
PURCHASE OF PROGRAM SERVICES 
A. 
The purchase of program services: 
1. 
May or may not require a contract depending upon the specific service purchased. 
2. 
Does not require State Department prior approval as long as the service is authorized by 
state rule. 
B. 
Authorized Non-Contractual Program Case Services 
1. 
Transportation for children in out-of-home care, limited to the following purposes: 
a. 
For return of runaways, who are in county department custody, to their Colorado 
home county. 
b. 
For a child in out-of-home care to receive services specified in the Family 
Services Plan that are directly related to family time and reunification. 
c. 
To facilitate a permanent plan through the Interstate Compact. 
d. 
To access one-time physical, dental, and psychological examinations for children 
in out-of-home care who are not Medicaid eligible and have no other insurance. 
2. 
A one-time physical, dental, and psychological examination for children in out-of-home 
care who are not Medicaid eligible and have no other insurance. 
3 
Case services authorized in the Adoption Services and Relative Guardianship Assistance 
Program sections that are specified in a current signed Adoption or Relative 
Guardianship Assistance Agreement. 
4. 
Other case services provided to children in out-of-home placement when such services 
are not a part of either room and board or Medicaid treatment or case management 
services. 
C. 
Contractual Program Services 
1. 
Services may be obtained by purchase for specific clients using the standardized form 
contracts, identified by number in the paragraph below. Standardized form contracts 
comply with federal and state statutes and/or regulations for the purchase of service. 
a. 
Child Welfare Child Care: Use contract form SS-19 as appropriate.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
39 
b. 
Child Foster Care Service: Use state authorized contract forms as appropriate. 
c. 
Psychological Evaluations, when purchased once and not through an agency 
contract: Use contract form SS-21B. Psychological evaluations shall not be 
purchased for children or adults who are eligible for Title XIX (Medicaid). Third 
party payment for psychological evaluations shall be used as first payer where 
possible. 
1) 
Limited purposes for children: 
a) 
For assessment of the need for protection - includes 
psychological evaluations for parents or substitute caretakers. 
Substitute caretakers are persons providing care as an 
alternative to the parent, i.e., includes guardians or legal 
custodians and excludes foster parents. 
b) 
For foster care placement. 
c) 
For adoptive home placement. 
2) 
Limited purposes for adults: 
For biological parents, on behalf of children in foster care. 
d. 
Physical evaluations, when purchased once and not through an agency contract 
shall use the state authorized contract form. Physical evaluations shall not be 
purchased with program service funds for children or adults who are eligible for 
Title XIX (Medicaid). Third party payment for physical evaluations shall be used 
as first payer where possible. 
Limited purposes for children: 
1) 
Needing assessment of need for protection. 
2) 
In Child Welfare Child Care. 
3) 
In out-of-home care. 
e. 
Evaluation shall include the cost of the examination as well as any written and/or 
verbal interpretation of the results of the psychological or physical evaluation. 
Core Services Program Services: County departments with state approved Core 
Services plans may use Form FPP-1 or develop and use their own contract for 
the purchase of Core Services. County developed contracts shall meet the 
contract content requirements provided in Section 7.607.4, D. 
 
D. 
Billing and Payment 
County department billings for the purchase of program service shall follow state procedures. 
7.607.4  
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
The purchase of administrative services requires:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
40 
1. 
A contract; and, 
2. 
State Department approval. 
B. 
The content of all administrative contracts shall comply with the requirements as established by 
the State Department. 
C. 
The county department shall monitor the provision of services at least every six (6) months under 
an administrative service contract for compliance with the contract and maintain written 
documentation of such monitoring including dates of monitoring and results/conclusions. 
D. 
Contract Content 
1. 
If a county department determines that certain administrative services are to be 
purchased, the county department shall negotiate terms and write a contract for the 
purchase. 
2. 
When the county department writes an administrative service contract, the contract shall 
contain: 
a. 
All terms of the contract in one instrument, be dated, and be executed by 
authorized representatives of all parties to the contract prior to the date of the 
implementation; 
b. 
A definite beginning and ending date for provision of services up to a maximum 
of one (1) year duration; 
c. 
A detailed description of the services to be provided and of the methods, 
including subcontracting, to be used by the contractor in carrying out its 
obligations under the contract; 
d. 
A stated number of units of service at a specific dollar rate, and/or for a specific 
dollar amount; 
e. 
The method and source of payment to the contractor; 
f. 
The source of funds and provision that “Payment pursuant to this contract, if in 
federal and/or state funds, whether in whole or in part, is subject to and 
contingent upon the continuing availability of federal and/or state funds for the 
purposes hereof”; 
g. 
Provision that no fees shall be imposed by the contractor related to services 
provided under this contract; 
h. 
Provision that the contractor meets applicable state licensing requirements, 
and/or federal standards and/or qualifications as provided under Merit System 
rules and regulations or county personnel system; 
i. 
Provision that contractor strictly adheres to all applicable federal, state, and local 
laws that have been or may hereafter be established; 
j. 
The address(es) of facilities to be used in providing services; 
k. 
Provision that the contractor shall comply with the requirements of the Civil 
Rights Act of 1964, the requirements of Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
41 
1973, Americans with Disabilities Act, and for safeguarding information according 
to rules of the State Department; 
l. 
Provision that any subcontracts permitted by the contract shall be subject to the 
requirements of the contract as listed here, and that the contractor is responsible 
for the performance of any subcontractor; 
m. 
A statement specifying requirements for fiscal and program responsibility, billing, 
records, controls, reports, and monitoring procedures; 
n. 
Provision for access to financial, program, and other records pertaining to 
services provided under this contract by county, state, and federal officials, and 
others as authorized in writing by the county; 
o. 
Provisions for contractor to keep financial, program, or other records pertinent to 
this contract for a period of 5 years from the contract termination date; 
p. 
Provision that the parties of the contract intend that the relationship between 
them contemplated by the contract is that of employer-independent contractor; 
q. 
Provisions for termination by either party including the manner by which 
termination will be effected and the basis for settlement. In addition, such 
contracts shall set forth the conditions under which the contract may be 
terminated for default as well as conditions where the contract may be terminated 
because of circumstances beyond the control of the contractor; and, 
r. 
For contracts over $10,000 certain provisions that will allow for administrative, 
contractual, or legal remedies in instances in which contractors violate or breach 
contract terms, and provide for such sanctions and penalties as may be 
appropriate; and for contracts in excess of $100,000, the contract must contain 
provisions for compliance with the Clean Air Act and the federal Water Pollution 
Control Act. 
E. 
Additional County Option Contract Components 
The county department may add optional provisions to the above required standard contract 
items. 
F. 
Billings and Payment 
1. 
County department billings for administrative service contractual purchase of services 
shall follow state procedures. 
2. 
State Department reimbursement for a properly approved county administrative service 
contract is subject to the availability of funds within the county's allocation. 
7.608 
HUMAN IMMUNODEFICIENCY VIRUS (HIV) POLICY [Eff. 1/1/15] 
7.608.1  
DEFINITIONS [Eff. 1/1/15] 
Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS): The late stage of the illness triggered by infection with 
Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). A person receives an AIDS diagnosis when he or she has a CD4 
(helper 1-cell) count of less than 200 and/or certain opportunistic infections common with advanced 
immune deficiency.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
42 
HIV: The detection by laboratory antibody tests of the presence of the Human Immunodeficiency Virus 
(HIV) in an individual. 
Universal Precautions: Measures used to keep a barrier between a person and blood and/or other 
infectious bodily fluids. The precautions are published by the Centers for Disease Control as accepted 
methods of preventing the spread of infectious disease and, when used routinely and properly, are 
sufficient to control the spread of infectious blood borne diseases, including HIV. Following are the 
universal precautions: 
A. 
Universal precautions apply to blood and to other body fluids containing visible blood. Blood is the 
single most important source of HIV in a care giving setting. 
B. 
Universal precautions also apply to semen and vaginal secretions. Although both of these fluids 
have been implicated in the sexual transmission of HIV, they have not been implicated in 
transmission from client to care providers. 
C. 
Universal precautions do not apply to feces, nasal secretions, sputum, sweat, tears, urine, saliva 
and vomitus unless they contain visible blood. The risk of transmission of HIV from these fluids, 
while theoretically possible, is extremely low or nonexistent. 
D. 
In any contact with visible blood, use a barrier such as latex gloves. When these are not 
immediately available, such as immediate response to a nosebleed or wound, use a barrier such 
as a towel. If hands are exposed to blood, they must be washed with soap and water immediately 
after contact. 
7.608.2  
Testing and Confidentiality [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
For children and youth in the legal custody of the county department of human or social services, 
the county department shall recommend to the medical care provider that the child or youth be 
tested for HIV based on determination of risk including the following considerations: 
1. 
Specific medical reasons for testing related to the well-being of the child or youth. 
2. 
Authority to test based on legal mandates or the informed consent of the client or those 
authorized to make medical decisions for the client. 
3. 
Mandatory pre and post test counseling shall include age appropriate information 
regarding the illness, assistance in dealing with psycho social issues, information about 
safer sex and a risk reduction plan. 
4. 
A plan shall be developed for re-testing based upon risk behaviors. 
5. 
In the event a child or youth refuses to consent to testing for HIV, the medical care 
provider shall be requested to provide counseling to the child. 
 
B. 
Confidentiality 
Section 25-4-1405(6), C.R.S., allows for minors to be examined and treated for HIV infection 
without the consent of the parent or guardian. Further, if the minor is age sixteen (16) or older, the 
results of the examination or treatment need not be divulged to the minor's parent or guardian, or 
to any person, unless necessary under reporting requirements of Title 25 or Title 19, C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
43 
In the event that the county becomes aware of positive HIV test results, the county shall develop 
a plan for confidential management of test results and HIV status. The county's policy may limit 
access to the test results based on the need to know and must comply with provisions of Title 25, 
Article 4, Part 14, C.R.S. The need to know shall include, but not be limited to: 
1. 
The care provider, with consideration of his or her capacity to provide appropriate 
physical and emotional care to a child or youth who is HIV-infected and his or her 
capacity to appropriately manage confidentiality issues. In the case of residential child 
care facility, residential treatment center, or child placement agency placement, HIV 
information shall be provided to the person designated by the facility to coordinate 
medical care. 
2. 
The caseworker and supervisor for the child or youth, who must manage the case 
including medical care. 
3. 
Child's biological parents based on the determination of risk to the child. The county 
department shall include the child's parents in decisions for medical procedures and 
treatment based on risk to the child, except where parental rights have been terminated. 
7.608.3  
SERVICE PROVISIONS [Eff. 1/1/15] 
7.608.31 
Non-Discrimination [Eff. 1/1/15] 
The status of being at risk for HIV exposure or being diagnosed with HIV/AIDS shall not be a cause for 
denial of services. 
7.608.32 
General Services [Eff. 1/1/15] 
The county department shall identify and may refer for medical evaluation children or youth in county 
custody who are at risk of HIV infection, considering the following factors: 
A. 
Infants born to known HIV infected mothers or mothers with high risk behavior. 
B. 
Children who have been involuntary sexual partners because of sexual assault, rape, incest 
and/or sexual abuse. 
C. 
Children with hemophilia who were exposed to blood or blood products before 1985 or children or 
youth who have received blood transfusions before March 1985. 
D. 
Children engaged in injection drug use past or present, including other injection behaviors such 
as needle sharing. 
E. 
Children engaged in unprotected, oral, vaginal, or anal intercourse. 
7.609 
FEES – RECORDS AND REPORTS [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
The county department may assess a fee for the reproduction of county documents. Such fees 
may be waived in accordance with county policy. 
B. 
The State Department shall assess a uniform fee for the purpose of conducting employment, 
volunteer, placement and adoption background screening to determine if the individual has been 
confirmed in the state automated case management system as a person responsible in a child 
abuse and/or neglect incident. The fee shall be established by the State Department not to 
exceed the direct and indirect costs of administering Section 19-1-307(2)(i), (k) to (o), and (t), 
C.R.S., and Section 19-3-313.5(3) and (4), C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
44 
C. 
The State Department shall review the fee at least annually to determine whether the fee is 
consistent with funding the direct and indirect costs indicated above. 
D. 
The State Department is authorized to set the fee not to exceed $35, taking into consideration the 
appropriation level set by the General Assembly and the fund balance of, and the funds collected 
and paid into, the Records and Reports Cash Fund. 
E. 
The State Department shall not set the fee above $35, unless specifically approved by the State 
Board of Human Services. The State Department shall notify the State Board of Human Services 
of changes to the fee at least annually upon the assessment of the fee. 
F. 
When the State Department anticipates changing the fee under the parameters set forth above, 
the State Department shall notify interested persons, at least thirty (30) calendar days in advance, 
if practicable, to obtain public comment to consider prior to the change. 
G. 
The State Department shall notify interested persons by way of the Department's Background 
Investigations Unit website and through information provided by the Background Investigations 
Unit when responding to background screen requests. 
7.610 
LOCAL DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROCESS [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
County department staff shall advise clients orally and in writing at the time of application of their 
right to appeal a county department decision either to the State Department for a fair hearing 
and/or to the county department for a local level dispute resolution conference. 
B. 
Clients or recipients shall be advised in writing and provided an opportunity for a county level 
dispute resolution conference within ten (10) calendar days of the mailing date of notice of a 
decision by the county department of the denial, decrease, discontinuation, or modification of 
human or social services, and/or Medicaid for children in foster care. Refer to the Income 
Maintenance rules, Section 3.840 (9 CCR 2503-8), for the proper policy and procedures for 
noticing and conduct of the local conference. 
7.611 
STATE APPEAL [Eff. 1/1/15] 
County departments shall advise clients in writing of their right to appeal from adverse decisions of county 
departments. When issuing a written adverse decision, county departments shall include complete 
information on appeal rights, including any right to a local conference with the county department. 
The rules governing the appeals process, including timeframes and notice, are set forth in rule section 
3.850 (9 CCR 2503-8). Appeals of confirmed abuse and/or neglect shall proceed in accordance with 
Sections 7.202.604 through 7.202.609 (12 CCR 2509-3).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-7 
Social Services Rules 
 
45 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule repealed eff. 03/01/2000. 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2015. 
Rules 7.602, 7.602.1-7.602.2, 7.603, 7.603.1, 7.603.1 J, 7.603.1 O eff. 11/01/2015. 
Rules 7.601.11, 7.603.1 eff. 01/01/2016. 
Rule 7.603 eff. 07/01/2017. 
Rules 7.601.6-7.601.8 eff. 12/01/2017. 
Rule 7.601.71 eff. 04/30/2022. 
Rules 7.603.1 C, 7.603.1 C.2.a, 7.603.1 D.2, 7.603.1 E.2 eff. 09/01/2022. 
Rules 7.601.71 J-L, 7.601.712 eff. 06/01/2023. 
Rule 7.607.3 B.1.b eff. 06/01/2024. 
Rules 7.605.21 C, 7.605.25, 7.606 eff. 07/01/2024. 
Rules 7.601.8-7.601.81 eff. 09/01/2024. 
Rule 7.603 eff. 10/30/2025.
