---
id: "12_CCR_2519-1"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "12 CCR 2519-1"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=6538&fileName=12%20CCR%202519-1&type=pdf"
---

#### 12_CCR_2519-1. 12 CCR 2519-1

Code of Colorado Regulations 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES 
Child Protection Ombudsman Program 
CHILD PROTECTION OMBUDSMAN PROGRAM - Repealed eff. 01/01/2016 
12 CCR 2519-1 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Creation of 12 CCR 2519-1, Sections 31.000 through 31.900, were final adoption following publication at 
the 12/5/2014 State Board meeting (Rule-making# 13-10-29-1), with an effective date of 2/1/2015. 
Statement of Basis and Purpose and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by 
reference into the rule. These materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours 
at the Colorado Department of Human Services, Office of Enterprise Partnerships, State Board 
Administration. 
Sections 31.000 through 31.900 were repealed in their entirety upon final adoption following publication at 
the 11/6/2015 State Board of Human Services rule-making session (Rule-making# 15-8-14-1), with an 
effective date of 1/1/2016. Statement of Basis and Purpose and specific statutory authority for these 
revisions were incorporated by reference into the rule. These materials are available for review by the 
public during normal working hours at the Colorado Department of Human Services, Office of Strategic 
Communications and Legislative Relations, State Board Administration. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 02/01/2015. 
Entire rule repealed eff. 01/01/2016. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado
