---
id: "12_CCR_2514-1"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "12 CCR 2514-1"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=4519&fileName=12%20CCR%202514-1&type=pdf"
---

#### 12_CCR_2514-1. 12 CCR 2514-1

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES 
Food Distribution Program 
RULE MANUAL VOLUME 13, FOOD DISTRIBUTION PROGRAM - Repealed eff. 02/01/2012 
12 CCR 2514-1 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_______________________________________________________________________________ 
STATEMENT OF BASIS AND PURPOSE, FISCAL IMPACT AND SPECIFIC STATUTORY 
AUTHORITY OF REVISIONS MADE TO RULE MANUAL XIII 
Addition of Sections 13.200,13.200.2,13.200.3, were finally adopted as a final adoption of emergency rule 
at the 3/7/86 State Board meeting, with an effective date of 3/7/86 (Document 6). Statement of Basis and 
Purpose, Fiscal Impact, and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference 
into the rule. These materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours at the 
Office of the State Board Administrator, Department of Social Services. 
Revision to Sections 13.200,13.200.2,13.200.3, were emergency adopted at the 4/11/86 State Board 
meeting, with an effective date of 4/11/86 (Document 22.Statement of Basis and Purpose, Fiscal Impact, 
and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the rule. These 
materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours at the Office of the State 
Board Administrator, Department of Social Services. 
Revision of Section 13.111,13.200,13.200.2,13.200.3, were emergency adopted at the 7/11/86 State 
Board meeting, with an effective date of 7/11/86 (Documents 3, 4). Statement of Basis and Purpose, 
Fiscal Impact, and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the 
rule. These materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours at the Office of 
the State Board Administrator, Department of Social Services. 
Revision of Section 13.200,13.200.2 and 13.200.3, were finally emergency adopted at the 9/5/86 State 
Board meeting, With an effective date of 7/11/85 (Document 9). Statement of Basis and Purpose, Fiscal 
Impact, and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the rule. 
These materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours at the Office of the 
State Board Administrator, Department of Social Services. 
Revision of Section 13.111 was adopted emergency at the 6/5/87 State Board meeting with an effective 
date of 6/5/87 (Document 6). Statement of Basis and Purpose, Fiscal Impact, and specific statutory 
authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the rule. These materials are available 
for review by the public during normal working hours at the Office of the State Board Administrator, 
Department of Social Services. 
Revision of Section 13.111 was final adoption of emergency at the 7/10/87 State Board meeting with an 
effective date of 6/5/87 (Document 15/CSPR# 87-4-1-1). Statement of Basis and Purpose, Fiscal Impact, 
and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the rule. These 
materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours at the Office of the State 
Board Administrator, Department of Social Services. 
Re-write of the manual - Sections 13.000 through 13.200.3 was final adoption following publication at the 
5/5/2006 State Board meeting with an effective date of 7/1/2006 (Rule-making# 06-1-24-1). Statement of 
Basis and Purpose, fiscal impact, and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by 
reference into the rule. These materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
2 
at the Colorado Department of Human Services, Office of Performance Improvement, State Board 
Administration. 
Deletion of Sections 13.000 through 13.200.2 (rule manual in its entirety) was final adoption following 
publication at the 12/2/2011 State Board meeting with an effective date of 2/1/2012 (Rule-making# 11 9 
8-3). Statement of Basis and Purpose, fiscal impact, and specific statutory authority for these revisions 
were incorporated by reference into the rule. These materials are available for review by the public during 
normal working hours at the Colorado Department of Human Services, Office of Enterprise Partnerships, 
Division of Boards and Commissions, State Board Administration. 
_______________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor's Notes 
History 
Entire rule repealed eff. 02/01/2012.
