---
id: "12_CCR_2509-2"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "12 CCR 2509-2"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12297&fileName=12%20CCR%202509-2&type=pdf"
---

#### 12_CCR_2509-2. 12 CCR 2509-2

1 
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES 
Social Services Rules 
REFERRAL AND ASSESSMENT 
12 CCR 2509-2 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
7.100 
REFERRAL AND ASSESSMENT [Eff. 8/1/17] 
7.101 
DOCUMENTATION OF REFERRALS [Eff. 8/1/17] 
All reports that meet the definition of a referral for intrafamilial, third party, or institutional abuse and/or 
neglect shall be entered into the state automated case management system. Any time a case is opened, 
it shall come through the referral or assessment process in the state automated case management 
system with the exception of Interstate Compact on the Placement of Children (ICPC), out of state 
subsidized adoption, and Division of Youth Corrections (DYC) Medicaid-only. 
7.102 
HOTLINE REQUIREMENTS [Eff. 1/1/15] 
The establishment of a statewide child abuse and neglect reporting hotline system is intended to provide 
an additional resource for the public to make an initial report of suspected or known abuse and/or neglect. 
7.102.1 COUNTY HOTLINE RESPONSIBILITIES [Eff. 8/1/17] 
A. 
County departments shall establish a dedicated child abuse and neglect reporting telephone line 
to receive calls from the statewide child abuse and neglect reporting hotline system. 
B. 
County departments shall ensure that all calls received through the statewide child abuse and 
neglect reporting hotline system will be answered by a live person designated by the county, 
which may include county staff, local law enforcement, the Hotline County Connection Center, 
and/or an answering service. 
C. 
County departments shall ensure that any county department staff that responds to inquiries 
regarding child abuse and/or neglect or gathers information for reports of child abuse and/or 
neglect are trained and annually certified according to the requirements outlined in Section 7.603 
(12 CCR 2509-7). 
D. 
County departments shall ensure that all reports and inquiries received through the statewide 
child abuse and neglect reporting hotline system are documented in the state automated case 
management system by the end of the next business day following receipt as defined in Section 
7.103.10. 
E. 
When county departments select a routing method in the statewide child abuse and neglect 
reporting hotline system that prevents call data from being collected by the hotline system, county 
departments shall provide the State Department with designated monthly reports. 
1. 
County departments shall use a uniform template, provided by the State Department, to 
report the following: 
a. 
Call volume, 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
2 
b. 
Average call duration; and, 
c. 
Average wait time. 
2. 
The monthly reports shall be due to the State Department by the third business day of the 
following month. 
7.102.2 HOTLINE COUNTY CONNECTION CENTER RESPONSIBILITIES [Eff. 8/1/17] 
A. 
Hotline County Connection Center staff shall be continuously available twenty-four (24) hours a 
day, seven (7) days a week to receive and immediately route hotline calls to the appropriate 
county department. 
The appropriate county department shall be determined by the following criteria in order of 
priority: 
1. 
Residence of the child; 
2. 
Current location of the child; or, 
3. 
Incident location. 
B. 
All Hotline County Connection Center staff shall be trained and annually certified according to the 
requirements outlined in Section 7.603 (12 CCR 2509-7). 
C. 
Hotline County Connection Center staff shall ensure that all hotline calls are documented in the 
state automated case management system. 
7.102.3 TRANSFER OF HOTLINE RESPONSIBILITIES [Eff. 8/1/17] 
A. 
With the express written consent of the Board of County Commissioners of a county, a county 
department may request that the State Department assist that county with the taking of calls or 
initial contacts from the public of reports of possible child abuse and/or neglect or of inquiries. The 
Executive Director of the State Department must approve this arrangement in writing (26-5-111(3) 
(B), C.R.S.). 
B. 
A county department may request that the State Department receive after-hours reports or 
inquires on behalf of the county department by submitting a written request to the State 
Department. The Board of County Commissioners must officially approve the use of the hotline 
system on behalf of the county. Approval of such arrangement shall be approved by the State 
Department Executive Director or his/her designee (26-5-111(4) (E), C.R.S.). 
C. 
In the event of a natural disaster or other emergency situation in which county departments 
cannot receive reports or inquiries from the statewide child abuse and neglect reporting hotline 
system, county departments may request that the Hotline County Connection Center receive their 
reports or inquiries, until they are able to resume normal operations. 
D. 
County departments may request another county department to receive reports and inquiries 
from the statewide child abuse and neglect reporting hotline system on behalf of the county 
department subject to the Board of County Commissioners’ approval. Documentation of 
agreement from both county departments must be submitted to the State Department’s Executive 
Director or his/her designee prior to implementation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
3 
Reports and inquiries taken by a county department or the Hotline County Connection Center on 
behalf of another county department must follow the requirements defined in 26-5-111, C.R.S. 
and Sections 7.101, 7.101.1, 7.102.1 D., 7.103, 7.103.1, and 7.103.2. 
E. 
When the Hotline County Connection Center or another county department enters a report of 
child abuse and/or neglect into the state automated case management system on behalf of 
another county department, it shall transfer the referral to the appropriate responsible county 
department through the state automated case management system within two (2) hours after the 
call is completed. The method for notification is as follows: 
1. 
When a referral is sent during regular business hours, notification shall be through 
telephone call, voicemail, e-mail, text, or other emerging technology, and shall be 
documented in the state automated case management system; or, 
2. 
When a referral is sent outside of regular business hours, notification shall be through 
personal contact to a person who is the appropriate county department representative, 
and shall be documented in the state automated case management system. 
F. 
When a county department receives referrals from the Hotline County Connection Center or 
another county department, the county department shall confirm receipt of the referral within two 
(2) hours through the state automated case management system. 
G. 
When the Hotline County Connection Center or another county department enters an inquiry into 
the state automated case management system on behalf of another county department, they 
shall transfer the inquiry to the appropriate county department as follows: 
1. 
Child welfare inquiries regarding child(ren/youth) or families with child welfare 
involvement shall be transferred to the appropriate county department through the state 
automated case management system within two (2) hours after the call is completed. 
a. 
When a child welfare inquiry is sent outside of regular business hours, 
notification shall be through personal contact to a person who is the appropriate 
county department representative, and shall be documented in the state 
automated case management system. 
2. 
All other inquiries and requests for non-child welfare information shall be transferred to 
the appropriate county department through the state automated case management 
system within two (2) hours after the call is completed. 
H. 
When a county department receives an inquiry from the Hotline County Connection Center or 
another county department, the county department shall confirm receipt of the inquiry as follows: 
1. 
Child welfare inquiries regarding child abuse and/or neglect or families with child welfare 
involvement shall be confirmed through the state automated case management system 
within two (2) hours of receipt. 
a. 
When a child welfare inquiry is received outside of regular business hours the 
county department shall also confirm receipt through personal contact with the 
appropriate county department representative, and shall be documented in the 
state automated case management system. 
2. 
All other inquiries and requests for non-child welfare information shall be confirmed 
through the state automated case management system by the close of the next business 
day.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
4 
7.103 Receipt Of Referral Alleging Intrafamilial Or Third Party Abuse And/Or Neglect And/Or A 
Youth In Conflict– Information To Be Gathered 
A. 
Upon receipt of a report alleging intrafamilial or third party abuse and/or neglect, and/or a youth in 
conflict, the county departments or the Hotline County Connection Center shall gather and 
document the following information, when available. 
1. 
Reporting party’s: 
a. 
Name; 
b. 
Address; 
c. 
Telephone number; 
d. 
Reporter type; and 
e. 
Relationship to the alleged victim child(ren)/youth and/or a youth in conflict. 
2. 
Alleged victim child(ren)/youth’s and/or a youth in conflict: 
a. 
Name; 
b. 
Address; 
c. 
Current specific location; 
d. 
School or child care (if applicable); 
e. 
Birth date(s) or estimated age(s); 
f. 
Information as to whether or not the child(ren)/youth have American Indian or 
native Alaskan heritage, and if so, the tribal affiliation; 
g. 
Race and ethnicity; 
h. 
Developmental delays; 
i. 
Disability status; 
j. 
LGBTQ identity, including sexual orientation and gender identity, if applicable; 
k. 
English proficiency, including preferred language, if applicable; and 
l. 
Any relevant cultural considerations. 
3. 
Family and household members: 
a. 
Names; 
b. 
Birth date(s) or estimated age(s); 
c. 
Relationship to each other; 
d. 
Relationship to the alleged victim child(ren)/youth and/or a youth in conflict;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
5 
e. 
Race and ethnicity; 
f. 
Developmental delays; 
g. 
Disability status; 
h. 
LGBTQ identity, including sexual orientation and gender identity, if applicable; 
i. 
English proficiency, including preferred language, if applicable; and 
j. 
Any relevant cultural considerations. 
4. 
Person(s) alleged to be responsible for the abuse and/or neglect: 
a. 
Name; 
b. 
Birth date(s) or estimated age(s); 
c. 
Present location; 
d. 
Current or last known address; 
e. 
Relationship to the alleged victim child(ren)/youth; 
f. 
Race and ethnicity; 
g. 
Developmental delays; 
h. 
Disability status; 
i. 
LGBTQ identity, including sexual orientation and gender identity, if applicable; 
j. 
English proficiency, including preferred language, if applicable; and 
k. 
Any relevant cultural considerations. 
5. 
Narrative describing the presenting problems and specific allegations of the abuse and/or 
neglect, including but not limited to: 
a. 
When it occurred; 
b. 
Location; 
c. 
Witness(es) of the incident; and 
d. 
Description of any injury that was sustained. 
e. 
When substance exposed newborn is a referral reason, the county departments 
or the hotline county connection center shall ask the Colorado Plan of Safe Care 
enhanced questions. 
6. 
The date, time, and location the alleged victim child(ren)/youth and/or a youth in conflict 
were last seen by the reporting party.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
6 
7. 
The nature of any other environmental hazards in the home which may impact 
child(ren)/youth or worker safety. 
8. 
The name and contact information of any individuals who may have information about the 
referral, and/or the identity and contact information of collateral agencies and individuals 
involved with the family. 
9. 
Date and time referral received. 
10. 
Family strengths and supports, and/or other protective factors or actions taken. 
11. 
Any evidence of known domestic violence or intimate partner violence in the child(ren)’s 
home, including any evidence of previous cases of known domestic violence or intimate 
partner violence in the child(ren)’s home. 
B. 
If at any point during the referral process, a county department becomes aware of an allegation 
that a child(ren)/youth is, or may be, a victim of sex trafficking, the county department shall: 
1. 
Report immediately, and no later than twenty-four (24) hours from when the county 
department becomes aware, to the local law enforcement agency; and, 
2. 
Document the details of the report to law enforcement in the comprehensive child welfare 
information system. 
C. 
If at any point during the referral process when the reporting party is a runaway and homeless 
youth provider, and a county department becomes aware that a youth is experiencing 
homelessness, has run away, or is unaccompanied and is seeking shelter, then the county 
department shall gather and document the following information: 
1. 
Does the provider believe there is a reasonable plan in place to keep the child or youth 
free from harm, and, if not, what the provider believes would prevent harm, 
2. 
Has the shelter provider notified parent(s)/guardian(s) and, if so, what is their response; 
and 
3. 
When did intake of the child or youth occur and how many days are left in the 21-day 
shelter period allowable pursuant to section 26-5.7-107, C.R.S. 
7.103.1 Jurisdiction for Referrals Concerning Intrafamilial and Third-Party Abuse and/or Neglect 
[Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
The county department with jurisdiction for responding to a referral concerning intrafamilial or 
third-party abuse is the department for the county in which the alleged victim child(ren) resides 
the majority of the time except when custody of the alleged victim child(ren) is shared equally 
between caregivers. When custody is shared equally between caregivers, the county department 
with jurisdiction is the department for the county in which the person(s) alleged to be responsible 
for the abuse and/or neglect reside, if known. 
B. 
When a family is homeless as defined in 42 U.S.C. Section 11302, the county department with 
jurisdiction is the department for the county in which the alleged victim child(ren)’s primary 
nighttime residence is located. 
C. 
If the jurisdiction is unable to be determined by A or B, above, the county department with 
jurisdiction is the department for the county in which the alleged victim child(ren) are currently 
present, as set forth in Section 19-3-201, C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
7 
D. 
County departments shall use available resources to determine jurisdiction including, but not 
limited to: 
1. 
Colorado benefits management system; 
2. 
Alleged victim child(ren)’s school or daycare; 
3. 
History within the state automated case management system; 
4. 
Colorado courts; 
5. 
Where services may be provided. 
7.103.11 
Transfer of Jurisdiction [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
If the county department that receives a referral determines that another county department has 
jurisdiction, the county department that received the referral shall: 
1. 
Gather and document all information as available in Section 7.103.1, A; 
2. 
Gather and document all information necessary to determine jurisdiction; and 
3. 
Contact the county determined to have jurisdiction within the following timeframes: 
a. 
If the referral is assigned an immediate response, within four (4) hours of 
determining jurisdiction. 
b. 
If the referral is assigned either a three (3) day or five (5) day response, within 
one (1) business day of determining jurisdiction. 
B. 
The county determined to have jurisdiction shall screen the referral. 
C. 
When the county department that received the referral makes a decision based upon the referral 
prior to determining jurisdiction, the county department determined to have jurisdiction shall 
uphold that decision including assignment and response time, unless: 
1. 
Additional or new information is gathered by the county department determined to have 
jurisdiction. 
2. 
The additional or new information shall relate to the safety of the child. 
3. 
The child welfare or county department director of the county department determined to 
have jurisdiction overrides the decision. 
4. 
The authorization, information, and justification for any change shall be documented in 
the referral notes. 
D. 
If an immediate response is necessary, the county department where the child is located at the 
time of the referral is the responsible county department while jurisdiction is determined.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
8 
7.103.2  
RECEIPT OF REFERRAL ALLEGING INSTITUTIONAL ABUSE AND/OR NEGLECT – 
INFORMATION TO BE GATHERED [Eff. 8/1/17] 
A. 
Upon receipt of a report alleging institutional abuse and/or neglect the county departments or the 
Hotline County Connection Center shall gather and document the following information when 
available. 
1. 
Reporting party’s: 
a. 
Name; 
b. 
Address; 
c. 
Telephone number; 
d. 
Reporter type; and, 
e. 
Relationship to the alleged victim child(ren)/youth. 
2. 
Alleged victim child(ren)/youth’s: 
a. 
Name; 
b. 
Address; 
c. 
Current specific location; 
d. 
School or child care (if applicable); 
e. 
Birth date(s) or estimated age(s); 
f. 
Any developmental delays, physical disabilities, competency or cultural 
considerations; and, 
g. 
Primary language. 
3. 
Narrative describing the presenting problems and specific allegations of the abuse and/or 
neglect, including but not limited to: 
a. 
Time and date; 
b. 
Location; 
c. 
Witness(es) of the incident; 
d. 
If any injury was sustained; 
e. 
Provision of medical treatment, and if no medical treatment has been provided 
whether in reporter’s opinion the injury sustained requires medical services; and, 
f. 
Provider's actions or omissions in relation to the incident. 
4. 
Person(s) alleged to be responsible for the abuse and/or neglect: 
a. 
Name;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
9 
b. 
Birth date(s) or estimated age(s); 
c. 
Present location; 
1. 
If the person(s) is a staff person(s), determine if the person(s) has been 
moved to a non-child contact role, and/or separated from the alleged 
victim child(ren)/youth. 
2. 
If the person(s) is another resident, determine where he/she is in relation 
to the alleged victim child(ren)/youth. 
d. 
Current or last known address; 
e. 
Any developmental delays, physical disabilities, competency or cultural 
considerations; and, 
f. 
Telephone number. 
5. 
Institution where the incident occurred: 
a. 
Name; 
b. 
Address; 
c. 
Telephone number; 
d. 
Whether the institution has been notified of the allegation; and, 
e. 
Any actions taken by the institution. 
6. 
Parent(s)/guardian(s) of the alleged victim child(ren)/youth: 
a. 
Name; 
b. 
Address; 
c. 
Telephone number; and, 
d. 
Whether the parent(s)/guardian(s) have been notified. 
7. 
Determine who has legal custody of the alleged victim child(ren)/youth. 
When a county department or other state holds legal custody; 
a. 
Obtain the agency’s name, telephone number and/or staff representative’s name 
and telephone number; and, 
b. 
Whether the institution has completed notification of the custodial county/agency. 
8. 
Date and time referral received. 
B. 
If at any point during the referral process, a county department becomes aware of an allegation 
that a child(ren)/youth is, or may be, a victim of sex trafficking, the county department shall:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
10 
1. 
Report immediately, and no later than twenty-four (24) hours from when the county 
department becomes aware, to the local law enforcement agency; and, 
2. 
Document the details of the report to law enforcement in the state automated case 
management system. 
7.103.21 
Jurisdiction for Referrals Concerning Institutional Abuse and/or Neglect [Eff. 
1/1/15] 
The county in which the facility is located shall have jurisdiction for responding to a referral concerning 
institutional abuse, to include, non-certified kinship care providers that provide care for children with an 
open child welfare case who are in the legal custody of a county department. 
7.103.3  
RECEIPT OF REFERRAL, JURISDICTION, AND INITIAL REVIEW WHEN A YOUTH IS 
SEEKING RE-ENTRY SERVICES THROUGH THE FOSTER YOUTH IN TRANSITION PROGRAM 
A. 
Upon receipt of a report regarding a youth in need of services to re-enter through the Foster 
Youth in Transition Program pursuant to the Colorado Revised Statutes, pursuant to section 19-7-
301, C.R.S., et seq, the county or Hotline County Connection Center shall gather the following 
information, when available: 
1. 
The reporting party’s: 
a. 
Name; 
b. 
Address; 
c. 
Telephone number; 
d. 
Reporter type; and 
e. 
Relationship to the youth seeking services. 
2. 
The following information regarding the youth seeking services: 
a. 
Legal name; 
b. 
Address or county where the youth self attests to reside; 
c. 
Current specific location and contact information; and 
d. 
Birth date(s) or estimated age(s). 
B. 
The county in which a youth self attests to reside shall have jurisdiction for a re-entry referral to 
the Foster Youth in Transition Program. 
C. 
Upon receipt of a request for re-entry services through the Foster Youth in Transition Program a 
county department shall initiate a review of eligibility, notifications, provision of services, and 
timelines as described in 7.203.40, ET SEQ. (12 CCR 2509-3). 
7.103.4  
Initial Review 
When available, the county department shall gather the information in Section 7.103.1, A and/or B, and 
conduct an initial review. The initial review shall decide if no further action is required, if the referral shall 
be assigned for assessment, the appropriateness of an immediate response to an assessment, the need

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
11 
for RED Team review, and/or the appropriateness of a referral to prevention services. It shall include, but 
not be limited to, the following actions: 
A. 
Review the child(ren)/youth’s vulnerability as defined in section 7.000.2. 
B. 
Review the comprehensive child welfare information system and any available county department 
files within twenty-four (24) hours for: 
1. 
Prior referrals and/or involvement with the alleged victim child(ren), family, and person(s) 
alleged to be responsible for the abuse and/or neglect; 
2. 
Actions taken; and 
3. 
Services provided to inform whether there is known or suspected abuse and/or neglect or 
serious threats of harm to a child. 
C. 
As available and appropriate, obtain information from collateral sources such as schools, 
Colorado court data, medical personnel, law enforcement agencies, or other care providers. 
D. 
All referrals shall be reviewed and approved by a supervisor, and documented in the 
comprehensive child welfare information system. The review shall include, at a minimum, two 
certified child welfare staff. Documentation shall provide justification for the decision. If there is 
disagreement in the referral disposition and/or the referral is determined to be complex and/or 
unclear, the referral shall be reviewed through the RED Team process. 
E. 
Prevention services shall be considered, if available, for screened out referrals. 
F. 
When an institutional referral is received regarding county certified foster homes or county 
certified kinship homes, the certifying county shall be notified. The certifying county shall review 
the referral for support and service considerations and certification concerns. The notification and 
review shall be documented in the comprehensive child welfare information system. 
G. 
When an institutional referral is received regarding non-certified kinship homes, the custodial 
county shall be notified. The custodial county shall review the referral for support and service 
considerations. The notification and review shall be documented in the comprehensive child 
welfare information system. 
7.103.5  
Referrals Requiring No Further Action 
County departments may determine that a referral does not require further action and screen it out for the 
following reasons: 
A. 
The current allegations have previously been assessed; 
B. 
The alleged victim child(ren) or youth in conflict are not located or reside in the State of Colorado. 
In this circumstance, the county department shall inform the other state or county department of 
the referral; 
C. 
Referral does not meet criteria of abuse and/or neglect as defined in statutes and regulations; 
D. 
Referral lacks sufficient information to locate the alleged victim child(ren) or youth in conflict; or 
E. 
Referral is duplicative of a previous referral. In this circumstance, the county department shall 
associate the duplicate referral with the previous referral in the comprehensive child welfare 
information system.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
12 
A referral cannot be considered duplicate if the following circumstances are present: 
1. 
Different incident date; 
2. 
Different alleged victim; 
3. 
Different alleged person responsible for abuse and/or neglect; 
4. 
Different household, and/or 
5. 
Additional information poses a new or renewed threat of safety to the child(ren)/youth. 
F. 
The person alleged to be responsible for the abuse and/or neglect is a third (3rd) party and ten 
(10) years of age or older. In this circumstance, the county department shall send the referral to 
the appropriate law enforcement agency. 
G. 
There is no current allegation of child abuse and/or neglect; 
H. 
More appropriate services for the child/youth who is alleged to be a youth in conflict are currently 
being provided by another agency; 
I. 
Referral does not meet the definition of youth in conflict as defined in 12 CCR 2509-1 section 
7.000.2; 
J. 
The referral contains concerns of a reported unregulated custody transfer of a child/youth and no 
allegations of child abuse/neglect. In this circumstance the county department shall send the 
referral to the appropriate law enforcement agency or agencies; and 
K. 
The decision to screen out a referral shall be made by a minimum of two (2) certified child welfare 
staff from the same county or in conjunction with another county. When there is disagreement to 
screen out, the referral shall be reviewed through the red team process. 
7.103.6  
Criteria For Assigning A Referral For Assessment 
A. 
County departments shall screen in and assign a referral for assessment if it: 
1. 
Contains specific allegations of known or suspected abuse and/or neglect as defined in 
section 7.000.2; 
2. 
Provides sufficient information to locate the alleged victim; and 
3. 
Identifies a victim under the age of eighteen (18); or 
4. 
Identifies a victim between eighteen (18) and under twenty-one (21) years of age who is 
under the continuing jurisdiction of the court and in the care of a facility. 
B. 
Any time a case is opened, it shall come through the referral or assessment process in the 
comprehensive child welfare information system with the exception of Interstate Compact on the 
Placement of Children (ICPC), out of state subsidized adoption, out of state Medicaid, Interstate 
Compact on Adoption and Medicaid Assistance (ICAMA), or Division of Youth Services (DYS) 
Medicaid only. 
C. 
The county department shall review and respond, either with a face-to-face intervention or by 
telephone, when notified by the court-appointed detention screener or a law enforcement officer

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
13 
of a child/youth in the custody of a law enforcement agency who is inappropriate for secure 
detention but cannot be returned home. 
D. 
When it is reported that there has been an unregulated custody transfer of a child/youth, the 
county department may conduct an assessment and take appropriate action to protect the 
welfare of the child/youth as provided in other areas of rule, regardless of any additional concern 
of abuse or neglect. If an assessment is completed regarding concerns of an unregulated custody 
transfer of an adopted child/youth, and it is determined that a person has transferred or intends to 
transfer custody in violation of section 19-5.5-203, C.R.S., then the county department shall: 
1. 
Provide notice of the assessment to the Colorado Department of Human Services when it 
involves an unregulated custody transfer of an intercountry adopted child/youth. 
2. 
Send the referral to the appropriate law enforcement agency or agencies. 
7.103.70 
Response Time for Referrals Assigned for Assessment 
A. 
County departments shall assign the appropriate response time for assessments based upon the 
date the referral is received using the following criteria: 
1. 
An immediate response is required when a referral indicates that: 
a. 
There may be present danger of moderate to severe harm; or, 
b. 
The child's vulnerability and/or factors such as drug and alcohol abuse, violence, 
isolation, or risk of flight increase the need for immediate response. 
c. 
An immediate response shall require a response within eight (8) hours from the 
receipt of the referral. If the victim child(ren)/youth cannot be located within the 
initial timeframe, subsequent face to face contact attempts shall continue to be 
made every twenty-four (24) hours from the time of the initial attempted contact. 
2. 
A three (3) calendar day response is required when a referral indicates that: 
a. 
There may be impending danger of moderate to severe harm; or, 
b. 
The alleged victim child(ren)’s vulnerability and/or factors such as drug and 
alcohol abuse, violence, isolation, or risk of flight, increase the need for 
intervention in the near future. 
c. 
The three (3) calendar day count starts on the day following the receipt of a 
referral, and expires at the end of the third calendar day at 11:59 PM following 
receipt of the referral. 
d. 
If the victim child(ren)/youth cannot be located within the initial timeframe, 
subsequent face to face contact attempts shall continue to be made within every 
subsequent three calendar days. 
3. 
A five (5) working day response is required when: 
a. 
A referral indicates an absence of safety concerns. 
b. 
The five (5) day count starts on the first business day following the receipt of a 
referral and expires at the end of the fifth business day at 11:59 PM following the 
receipt of the referral.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
14 
c. 
If the victim child(ren)/youth or child/youth in conflict cannot be located within the 
initial timeframe, subsequent face to face contact attempts shall continue to be 
made within every subsequent five business days. 
B. 
The decision of how quickly to initiate an assessment shall be based on specific reported 
information that is credible and that indicates whether a child may be unsafe or at risk of harm. 
 
7.103.71 
RED Teams 
A. 
County departments shall maintain and make available the RED team process. 
B. 
The RED Team process shall be documented in the framework. The documentation shall provide 
justification for the decisions. 
C. 
All RED Team decisions shall be approved by a certified supervisor by the end of the calendar 
day and documented in the comprehensive child welfare information system by the end of the 
next business day. 
7.103.8  
DIFFERENTIAL RESPONSE [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
County departments interested in participating in Differential Response shall conduct the 
following: 
1. 
Submit a letter of interest to the State Department; 
2. 
Form a County Differential Response Implementation Committee; 
3. 
Attend Differential Response Training and Coaching Sessions as determined by the 
State Department; 
4. 
Complete the Readiness Self-Assessment Process; 
5. 
Demonstrate the ability to meet the State Department’s performance expectations on 
safety and well-being measures; and, 
6. 
Demonstrate county staff understands how to correctly enter information into the 
comprehensive child welfare information system. 
Upon successful completion of the above efforts, a county may be selected to participate in 
Differential Response by the Executive Director of the State Department. 
B. 
County departments that implement Differential Response shall utilize the RED Team framework 
to review referrals, determine response times, and determine the appropriate track assignment in 
accordance with the approved RED Team process. 
1. 
High Risk Assessment (HRA) is mandatory for a child fatality, near fatality, or egregious 
incident determined to be the result of abuse and/or neglect, institutional abuse, and 
intrafamilial sexual abuse. RED Teams may use discretion to assign a High Risk 
Assessment (HRA) based on the following factors: present danger, multiple previous 
referrals, and/or presenting case characteristics such as type of alleged maltreatment 
paired with high vulnerability of the alleged victim.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
15 
2. 
The Family Assessment Response (FAR) is for referrals with low to moderate risk. RED 
teams may use discretion to assign the Family Assessment Response (FAR) in 
assessments alleging a child fatality, near fatality, or egregious incident. If it is 
determined that a child fatality, near fatality or egregious incident is the result of abuse 
and/or neglect, the track shall be changed to a High Risk Assessment. Institutional abuse 
or intrafamilial sexual abuse shall not be assigned the Family Assessment Response 
(FAR). 
3. 
All RED Team decisions shall be approved by a supervisor by the end of the calendar 
day and documented in the comprehensive child welfare information system by the end 
of the next business day. 
7.103.9  
DUTIES TO REPORTING PARTIES – INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
Within SIXTY (60) calendar days of receiving a referral alleging abuse and/or neglect from a 
mandatory reporter listed in Section 19-1-307(2)(e.5)(I), C.R.S., the county department shall 
notify such individual when: 
1. 
The county department is aware the individual is and continues to be officially and 
professionally involved in the ongoing care of the child who was the subject of the 
referral; and, 
2. 
The mandatory reporter has a need to know in order to fulfill his or her professional and 
official role in maintaining the child’s safety; and, 
3. 
Unless the county department has actual knowledge that the mandatory reporter 
continues to be officially and professionally involved in the ongoing care of the child who 
was the subject of the report, a county department shall request written affirmation from a 
mandatory reporter stating that the reporter continues to be officially and professionally 
involved in the ongoing care of the child who was the subject of the report and describing 
the nature of the involvement. 
B. 
The county department shall notify the mandatory reporter of the following information: 
1. 
The name of the child and the date of the referral; 
2. 
Whether the referral was accepted for assessment; 
3. 
Whether the referral was closed without services; 
4. 
Whether the assessment resulted in services related to the safety of the child; 
5. 
The name of and contact information for the county caseworker responsible for the 
assessment; and, 
6. 
Notice that the reporting mandatory reporter may request updated information within 
ninety (90) calendar days after the county department received the referral and 
information concerning the procedure for obtaining updated information. 
7.103.10 
DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS – WHEN SUPERVISOR APPROVAL IS 
REQUIRED [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
All referrals including the information gathered pursuant to Sections 7.103.1 and 7.103.2 shall be 
entered into the comprehensive child welfare information system by the end of the next business 
day following receipt of the referral.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
16 
B. 
The initial review shall be documented in the comprehensive child welfare information system by 
the end of the next business day following receipt of the referral. The supervisor is to ensure that 
the review and the documentation have occurred. 
C. 
The decision to screen out a referral for further action shall be documented in the comprehensive 
child welfare information system by the end of the following business day that the decision is 
made. This shall include an explanation of the reasons why no further action was needed. The 
determination to screen out a referral for further action must be approved by a supervisor. 
D. 
All RED Team decisions shall be approved by a supervisor by the end of the calendar day and 
documented in the comprehensive child welfare information system by the end of the next 
business day. 
7.104 
Intrafamilial, Institutional, And Third-Party Abuse And/Or Neglect Assessments [Eff 3/1/18] 
The requirements of this section address intrafamilial, institutional and third-party abuse and/or neglect 
assessments except for assessments involving safe haven voluntarily surrendered infants, as described 
in section 19-3-304.5, C.R.S. Assessment rules pertaining to safe haven voluntarily surrendered infants 
are set forth in section 7.106.4. 
A. 
The assessment shall begin with face-to-face contact with the alleged victim child(ren)/youth and 
includes, but is not limited to: 
1. 
Face-to-face contact with the primary caregiver; 
2. 
Assessing for current or impending danger and taking action to secure safety, if 
indicated; 
3. 
Assessing risk, needs, protective capacities and strengths of child(ren)/youth and 
families; and, 
4. 
Obtaining culturally relevant and appropriate resources for the alleged victim child(ren)/ 
youth and their families. 
B. 
At the point of first contact with the alleged victim child(ren)/youth, the assessment shall focus 
immediately on whether the child(ren)/youth is safe, and include the following: 
1. 
To assess for safety, county departments shall consider: 
a. 
The safety threshold criteria for current or impending danger of moderate to 
severe harm; 
b. 
The current or impending dangers described in the Colorado Family Safety 
Assessment tool; 
c. 
Child(ren)/youth vulnerabilities/strengths; 
d. 
Caregiver strengths/protective capacities; and, 
e. 
Actions that respond to the current or impending danger. 
2. 
If the child(ren)/youth is unsafe, the caseworker shall analyze whether:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
17 
A. 
A safety plan can reasonably be expected to control current or impending danger 
while the assessment continues, and if so, develop a safety plan as described in 
Section 7.107.16 AND 7.107.17. 
B. 
If a safety plan cannot reasonably be expected to control current or impending 
danger the caseworker shall, if necessary, initiate an out-of-home placement. 
Section 19-3-401, C.R.S., describes the process of taking children/YOUTH into 
custody. 
C. 
If the child(ren)/youth is unsafe, the safety plan, or decision to initiate an out-of-
home placement shall be reviewed and approved by a supervisor as soon as 
possible and no later than twenty-four (24) hours from the face to face interview 
or observation with the alleged victim child(ren)/youth. Documentation of the 
approval shall be entered in the state automated case management system. 
3. 
For county departments implementing Differential Response, in the first sixty (60) 
calendar days of a Family Assessment Response (FAR), upon supervisory approval, the 
caseworker may change tracks to a High Risk Assessment (HRA) to assess, attain or 
maintain child(ren)/youth safety due to lack of cooperation or additional information 
gathered during the assessment, or if requested to do so by the person(s) alleged to be 
responsible for the abuse and/or neglect. 
4. 
For county departments implementing Differential Response, if at any point safety cannot 
be sustained in a Family Assessment Response (FAR), the caseworker, with approval 
from the supervisor, shall open a case and/or request court orders. 
5. 
If at any point new information is gathered that contains information defined in Section 
7.103, a new referral shall be generated. 
C. 
Safety interventions shall be used continuously throughout all assessments. Safety interventions 
are defined as the actions and decisions required to: 
1. 
Identify and assess current or impending danger to child(ren)/youth safety; 
2. 
Plan for an unsafe child(ren)/youth to be protected; 
3. 
Work with caregivers to identify safety and network supports for child(ren)/youth 
protection; and, 
4. 
Manage plans designed to assure child(ren)/youth safety while a safe and permanent 
home is established. 
D. 
When determining jurisdiction within open assessments, when current or impending danger is 
identified, the responding county shall consider the following: 
1. 
The timeframes and completion of activities within the assessment including response 
time, completion of the safety and risk assessment, and the assessment closure; 
2. 
Verification of the new residence and documentation of efforts to determine correct 
jurisdiction; 
3. 
Considerations of distance between reported residence and new residence; and, 
4. 
Assessment completion and the need for further services.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
18 
E. 
When determining jurisdiction within open assessments and no current or impending danger is 
identified, the county with the open assessment shall complete the assessment. 
7.104.1  
Intrafamilial Abuse And/or Neglect Assessment 
A. 
The assessment shall begin as soon as reasonably possible following receipt of the referral 
according to the assigned response time. 
B. 
The assessment shall be conducted as set forth in Section 19-3-308(2),(3),(4) through 19-3-
308.5, C.R.S., and the following: 
1. 
The assessment shall include a face to face interview or observation of the alleged victim 
child(ren)/youth within the assigned response timeframe, according to the following 
procedures: 
a. 
Interviews shall be face-to-face with the child(ren)/youth if the child(ren)/youth 
has the verbal, emotional, and/or developmental ability to relate information 
relevant to safety decisions. If the child(ren)/youth does not have such verbal, 
emotional, and/or developmental ability, face to face observation of the 
child(ren)/youth, as appropriate to assess the allegations in the referral, is 
sufficient. Documentation shall support why the child(ren)/youth was unable to be 
interviewed and how allegations were addressed during the observation. 
b. 
When child(ren)/youth are unable to be interviewed within the assigned response 
time, caseworkers shall document interviews with household members and 
collaterals to determine that the child(ren)/youth is safe or in current or impending 
danger. Documentation shall support why the child(ren)/youth was unable to be 
interviewed. 
c. 
If a caseworker gathering information in the Colorado Family Safety Assessment 
tool determines child(ren)/youth are unsafe and it is unreasonable to interview 
the child(ren)/youth at the time of removal, the caseworker shall interview the 
child(ren)/youth as soon as it is reasonable. Documentation shall support why the 
child(ren)/youth was unable to be interviewed. 
d. 
Caseworkers and other child welfare staff shall not be required to have face to 
face contact with a child(ren)/youth who are undergoing lifesaving medical 
intervention, in critical condition or deceased. Information of abuse and/or neglect 
shall be gathered through interviews with household members and collaterals 
and documented in the state automated case management system. The 
caseworker shall interview or observe the victim child(ren)/youth once they are 
medically cleared. 
e. 
Interviews shall be conducted out of the presence of the person(s) alleged to be 
responsible for the abuse and/or neglect. 
f. 
The requirements of section (e) above do not apply in a Family Assessment 
Response (FAR) where the initial interview may be conducted with the entire 
family, when doing so does not compromise the safety of the child(ren). Children 
may be interviewed outside the presence of the suspected person(s) responsible 
for the abuse and/or neglect at any point during the assessment. 
g. 
Information obtained from the interview with the non-offending parent and victim 
child(ren)/youth shall not be revealed to the alleged perpetrator of domestic

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
19 
violence, and shall be subject to the rules of discovery and governed by the 
confidentiality provisions under Section 7.605. 
h. 
If face to face interview(s) or observation(s) cannot be accomplished with the 
alleged victim child(ren)/youth within the assigned response timeframe, 
reasonable efforts to interview or observe the child(ren)/youth shall continuously 
be made as defined in 7.103.61(D). Efforts shall be documented in the state 
automated case management system and continue until the interview or 
observation occurs or the assessment is completed. 
C. 
The assessment shall include; 
1. 
Face to face interviews and/or observations with: 
a. 
All victim children/youth within the assigned timeframe, except as identified in 
7.104.1(B)(1),(a),(b),(c) and (d); and, 
b. 
Household members. 
2. 
Documentation of efforts to engage non-custodial parent(s); and other persons identified 
through the assessment who may have information regarding the alleged abuse and/or 
neglect. 
3. 
The extent of child(ren)/youth abuse and/or neglect, to include, but not limited to: 
a. 
Impact to the child(ren)/youth; 
b. 
Type and severity of injuries, if applicable; and, 
c. 
Child(ren)/youth’s explanation of the abuse and/or neglect. 
4. 
Circumstances surrounding the child(ren)/youth abuse and/or neglect, to include, but not 
limited to: 
a. 
Caretaker explanation of the abuse and/or neglect; 
b. 
Environmental influences; and, 
c. 
Contributory factors. 
d. 
Child(ren)/youth functioning; 
e. 
Caregiver(s) functioning; and, 
f. 
Parenting practices and disciplinary practices. 
5. 
The assessment shall include visiting the alleged victim child(ren)/youth’s place of 
residence or place of custody if: 
a. 
The home conditions are the subject of the assessment; or, 
b. 
Information obtained in the interview process indicates assessment of the home 
environment is necessary due to current or impending danger.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
20 
6. 
The assessment shall determine the names and conditions of any children living in the 
same household as the alleged victim child(ren)youth. 
7. 
The assessment shall include consideration of race/ethnicity, religion, accepted work-
related practices of agricultural communities, and accepted child-rearing practices of the 
culture in which the alleged victim child(ren)/youth participate. 
 
 
8. 
When assessing allegations of interfamilial abuse and/or neglect, the assessment shall 
include record checks of all adults residing in the household to assess for felony, and/or 
misdemeanor criminal convictions, related to child abuse and/or neglect, crimes of 
violence, domestic violence, or unlawful sexual behavior. Information gathered from 
record checks shall be used as one component to inform the overall assessment 
process. Records checks shall include: 
a. 
The state automated case management system; 
b. 
Colorado court management system of the state judicial department; and 
c. 
The National Sex Offender Public Website operated by the United States 
Department of Justice. 
d. 
When county departments have a memorandum of understanding to allow 
access to the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) data, b and c may be 
substituted with documentation that a NCIC check was completed. 
9. 
When assessing allegations of sexual abuse, the county department shall: 
a. 
Use due diligence in following specific check criteria for each website; 
b. 
Immediately report any violations of sex offender registration to local law 
enforcement; and, 
c. 
Report all law enforcement verified matches of sex offenders to the individual 
supervision officer/agent or team responsible for community supervision and 
public safety; 
d. 
Use both the state and national websites to check if a person alleged to be 
responsible of the abuse and/or neglect is a sex offender; and, 
e. 
County departments may use local law enforcement to check if a person alleged 
to be responsible for the abuse and/or neglect is a sex offender. 
10. 
The assessment shall include documentation of efforts to interview and advise the 
person(s) alleged to be responsible for the abuse and/or neglect of the referral and afford 
such person(s) an opportunity to respond to the allegations. Interviews with third party 
person(s) responsible for abuse/neglect are not required in assessments. 
11. 
The assessment shall include use of the Colorado Family Safety Assessment tool as 
describe in Section 7.107.1.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
21 
12. 
The assessment shall include use of the Colorado Family Risk Assessment tool as 
described in Section 7.107.2. 
13. 
The assessment shall include documentation of reasonable efforts to prevent out-of-
home placement, unless an emergency exists, and to maintain the family unit. 
Reasonable efforts include, but are not limited to: 
a. 
Engaging family and extended family in safety planning as described in Section 
7.107.17, if appropriate; 
b. 
Providing in-home services, if appropriate and available; 
c. 
Removing the person(s) alleged to be responsible for the abuse and/or neglect 
from the home rather than the child(ren)/youth, if possible; 
d. 
Work with the caregiver to place the child(ren)/youth in a safe environment; or, 
e. 
Engaging family and extended family in securing a kinship placement. 
14. 
When assessing allegations of substance exposed newborns, the county department 
shall develop and document a Colorado Plan of Safe Care according to the requirements 
outlined in section 7.107.5. 
D. 
If at any point during the assessment, a county department becomes aware of an allegation that a 
child(ren)/youth is, or may be a victim of human trafficking, the county department shall: 
1. 
Report, to the appropriate law enforcement agency, within twenty-four (24) hours from 
when the county department becomes aware and, 
2. 
Document the details of the report to law enforcement in the statewide automated case 
management system, AND, 
3. 
Complete the human trafficking screen to identify risk factors or indicators related to 
human trafficking. 
7.104.12 
Audio or Video Recording of The Interview or Observation [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
The interview or observation may be audio or video taped except when it is impracticable under 
the circumstances or will result in trauma to the child, as determined by the county department. 
B. 
If audio or video recording is conducted, the following standards shall be followed: 
1. 
The interview shall be conducted by a competent interviewer, and may occur at a child 
advocacy center, as defined in Section 19-1-103(19.5), C.R.S., that has a Memorandum 
of Understanding with the county department responsible for the assessment or by a 
competent interviewer for the county department. 
2. 
The child shall be advised that audio or video taping of the interview is to be conducted 
and the advisement shall be documented in the state automated case management 
system. If the child objects to videotaping of the assessment, such taping shall not be 
conducted by the county department. 
3. 
If it is the county department’s policy to routinely video or audio tape interviews, and an 
exception is made, the reason for the exception shall be documented in the state 
automated case management system.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
22 
4. 
If there is a request by any party to the action to view or listen to an audio or video tape, 
the child and/or, the guardian ad litem or counsel for youth shall be notified in advance of 
the request, when possible. 
5. 
Access to these audio or video tapes shall be subject to the rules of discovery and 
governed by the confidentiality provisions under Section 7.605. 
7.104.13 
Conclusion Of Assessment – Timing, Findings, Services [Eff. 3/1/18] 
 
7.104.131 
Timing [Eff. 3/1/18] 
A. 
High Risk Assessments (HRA) or Traditional Response Assessment shall be approved by a 
certified supervisor and closed within sixty (60) calendar days of the date the referral was 
received. 
B. 
The initial assessment phase of a Family Assessment Response (FAR) shall be approved by a 
supervisor and closed within sixty (60) calendar days from the date the referral was received. 
If ongoing services are identified in the assessment phase of a FAR, the FAR shall be opened 
into the service phase. The service phase shall include a treatment/prevention plan which is 
specific, measurable, achievable, realistic, and time limited (SMART). The treatment/prevention 
plan shall be created in collaboration with the family. This treatment/prevention plan must meet 
the guidelines in 7.301.2 for purposes of treatment/prevention plans. 
C. 
The Colorado Family Safety Assessment tool shall be approved in the state automated case 
management system by a certified supervisor as soon as possible and no later than fourteen (14) 
calendar days from the date the alleged victim child(ren)/youth was interviewed or observed. 
D. 
The Colorado Plan of Safe Care shall be approved in the state automated case management 
system and approved by a supervisor within sixty (60) calendar days from the date the referral 
was received. 
7.104.132 
Findings and Services 
A. 
County departments shall enter a finding of founded, inconclusive or unfounded, as an outcome 
of all high risk or traditional assessments in the state automated case management system no 
later than sixty (60) days after the receipt of the referral. 
1. 
Youth under the age of 13 at the time of an alleged incident shall not be listed as a 
person responsible for abuse and/or neglect for the purpose of assessment. 
2. 
Youth 13 years old and older and under the age of 18 at the time of an alleged incident 
shall not be listed as a person responsible for abuse and/or neglect for the purpose of 
assessment unless; 
a. 
The youth is a parent of the alleged victim child, or; 
b. 
The incident is determined to meet the criteria of founded, and the severity level 
of the abuse and/or neglect is at a level of severe, egregious, near-fatal, or fatal 
as defined in 12 CCR 2509-1, 7.000.2. 
B. 
County departments may elect to defer entering a founded finding pursuant to Section 19-3- 
309.5, C.R.S. If the county department elects to defer entering a finding of founded abuse and/or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
23 
neglect, the county shall enter into a pre-confirmation agreement and follow the procedures 
described in Section 7.108. 
C. 
If the person alleged to be responsible for the abuse and/or neglect is unknown or cannot be 
determined, a finding of “founded” may be entered into the state automated case management 
system. 
D. 
In a Family Assessment Response (FAR), no finding shall be made. 
E. 
Prior to closing an assessment, county departments shall refer all victim child(ren) under the age 
of five (5) to the appropriate state or local agency for developmental screening when the county 
department makes a finding of founded abuse and/or neglect. 
F. 
County departments may refer any child under the age of five (5) to the appropriate state or local 
agency for developmental screening in a Family Assessment Response (FAR) or Traditional 
Response Assessment, if a parent consents and the child presents with needs that might benefit 
from a developmental screening as determined by the county department. 
G. 
In a High Risk Assessment (HRA) or traditional response assessment, county departments shall 
enter the findings of abuse and/or neglect in the state automated case management system even 
if there is a criminal or civil proceeding pending against the person found responsible for the 
abuse and/or neglect arising out of the same incident. 
7.104.14 Documentation Required During Assessment  
A. 
At the time of a new assessment, county departments shall document that a review related to 
prior involvement as set forth in Section 7.104.1, B, 6, has occurred. This shall be documented in 
the assessment closure summary of the comprehensive child welfare information system. 
B. 
The results of any record checks including felony, and/or misdemeanor criminal convictions, 
related to child abuse and/or neglect, crimes of violence, domestic violence, or unlawful sexual 
behavior on all adults residing in the household being assessed, and attempts to access other 
information as set forth in Section 7.104.11 shall be documented in the comprehensive child 
welfare system. 
C. 
The full name(s), including nicknames and/or aliases, address(es), and date(s) birth of the 
person(s) alleged to be responsible for the abuse and/or neglect shall be documented in the 
comprehensive child welfare information system. 
D. 
All interactions with the family, including efforts to engage the family and extended family, as part 
of the assessment shall be documented in the comprehensive child welfare information system. 
Any specific information gathered, such as electronic media, photographs or videotapes shall be 
filed in the case record and referenced in the comprehensive child welfare information system. 
E. 
When a face to face interview or observation of the alleged victim child(ren)/youth is video or 
audio taped, the required advisement of the child(ren)/youth shall be documented.as set forth in 
section 7.104.12. 
F. 
If it is the county department's policy to routinely video or audio tape interviews, and an exception 
is made, the reason for the exception shall be noted in the comprehensive child welfare 
information system. 
G. 
The Colorado Family Safety Assessment tool shall be completed with household members and 
documented in the comprehensive child welfare information system. Documentation and approval 
by a certified supervisor in the comprehensive child welfare information system is required as

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
24 
soon as possible and no later than fourteen (14) calendar days from the date the alleged victim 
child(ren)/youth was interviewed or observed. 
H. 
If a Family Assessment Response (FAR) is changed to a High Risk Assessment (HRA), the 
change shall be made in the comprehensive child welfare information system and all information 
documentation shall be transferred. 
I. 
Any reasonable efforts to prevent out-of-home placement shall be documented in the 
comprehensive child welfare information system. 
J. 
If the assessment contains allegations of human trafficking, the human trafficking screening tool 
shall be completed and documented in the assessment closure summary in the comprehensive 
child welfare information system. 
K. 
The Colorado Plan of Safe Care shall be completed with the parent/caregiver(s), documented in 
the comprehensive child welfare information system, and approved by the supervisor within sixty 
(60) calendar days from the date the referral was received. 
L. 
Review and update household demographics in the comprehensive child welfare information 
system with the family for accuracy. 
7.104.141 
Documentation Required at Conclusion of Assessment [Eff. 3/1/18] 
A. 
County departments shall document the completed assessment in the state automated case 
management system, including completion of the assessment closure summary. Supervisors 
shall approve the closure of the assessment within sixty (60) calendar days from the date of the 
referral. The assessment closure shall include the following: 
1. 
Brief summary of initial concerns and any additional concerns discovered during the 
assessment, the actions that were taken, and/or protective factors that exist which 
mitigate the harm, danger or risk; 
2. 
Worker analysis of: 
a. 
Relevant criminal, Colorado courts state management system of the state judicial 
department, national sex offender registry history, and/or child welfare history 
gathered throughout the assessment, and any concerns identified related to the 
current assessment; 
b. 
Efforts to engage the family and extended family; 
c. 
For High Risk Assessments (HRA), or Traditional Response Assessments, that 
require a finding, clearly summarize the type, severity level and facts that support 
the decision; and, 
d. 
Family and/or agency plan, if applicable. 
B. 
In a HRA or Traditional Response Assessment, county departments shall enter the findings of 
abuse and/or neglect in the state automated case management system even if there is a criminal 
or civil proceeding pending against the person found responsible for the abuse and/or neglect 
arising out of the same incident. The reported data shall include the following: 
1. 
The name, address, gender, date of birth, and race of the victim child(ren); 
2. 
The composition of the victim child(ren)’s immediate family;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
25 
3. 
At a minimum, the name and last known mailing address of the person found to be 
responsible for the abuse and/or neglect, the date of birth, and Social Security Number, if 
known; 
4. 
The type of abuse and/or neglect; 
5. 
The severity level of the abuse and/or neglect; 
6. 
Any previous incidents of abuse and/or neglect of the victim child(ren) or siblings; 
7. 
The name(s) and address(es) of any person(s) previously found responsible for abuse 
and/or neglect, if known; 
8. 
The name of the source of the referral submitted to the county department, if known; 
9. 
The county department that conducted the assessment of the referral; and, 
10. 
The date the referral was made and the date the county department made the finding of 
founded abuse and/or neglect. 
7.104.15 
Notice 
A. 
Notice of the outcome of an assessment shall be made as described below. Unless otherwise 
described below or authorized by law, no other entity shall receive notification. 
B. 
Regardless of the outcome of the assessment and as allowable by law, county departments shall 
notify and document in the state automated case management system: 
1. 
The parent(s), guardian(s), custodian(s), or caregiver(s) of the alleged victim 
child(ren)/youth of the outcome of the assessments. Non-custodial parent(s) shall also be 
notified of the outcomes of the assessments unless; 
a. 
Documentation supports efforts to locate the non-custodial parent were 
unsuccessful; or, 
b. 
Documentation supports that it is not in the best interests of the child(ren)/youth 
to give notice to the non-custodial parent. 
2. 
The person alleged to be responsible for the abuse and/or neglect of the outcome of the 
assessment; 
3. 
The specified mandatory reporter, who is identified in and meets the criteria of section 
7.103.9.A.1-3; 
a. 
The name of the child(ren)/youth; 
b. 
The date of the referral; 
c. 
Whether the referral was accepted for assessment; 
d. 
Whether the referral was closed without services; 
e. 
Whether the assessment resulted in services related to the safety of the child;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
26 
f. 
The name and contact information for the county caseworker responsible for the 
assessment; and, 
g. 
The county procedure for requesting updated information within ninety (90) 
calendar days after the county department received the referral. 
 
 
4. 
Where applicable, the local licensing unit, the director or administrator of the facility, the 
agency with licensing or certifying authority and the State Department, Division of Child 
Welfare, if the abuse and/or neglect assessment involved a state-licensed or county-
certified facility. The referral and assessment may be used for investigations and 
licensing action where the referral involves a licensed child care provider as defined in 
the Foster Care, Kinship Foster Care, Residential, Day Treatment, and Child Placement 
Agency Licensing and Certification Act, sections 26-6-901 through 26-6-923, C.R.S. 
C. 
When the assessment results in a finding of founded abuse and/or neglect, county departments 
shall provide additional notice as described below: 
1. 
County departments shall notify the local law enforcement agency and the District 
Attorney's Office of a founded report. Any copies of child abuse/neglect reports provided 
to law enforcement or the District Attorney’s office shall be marked confidential. 
2. 
County departments shall notify the person found responsible for child abuse and/or 
neglect of the finding by first-class mail to the responsible person's last known mailing 
address, using a form approved by the State Department. County departments shall 
retain a copy of the notice in the case file showing the date of mailing. The notice shall 
include the following information: 
a. 
The type and severity level of the abuse and/or neglect, the date the referral was 
made to the county department, which county department completed the 
assessment, the date the county department made the finding in the state 
automated case management system, and information concerning persons or 
agencies that have access to the information. 
b. 
The circumstances under which information contained in the state automated 
case management system will be provided to other individuals or agencies. 
c. 
How to access the county’s dispute resolution process. County departments are 
authorized to offer a county dispute resolution process to persons alleged to be 
responsible for abuse and/or neglect. 
d. 
The right of the person found to be responsible for abuse and/or neglects to 
request a state level appeal as set forth in sections 7.111 through 7.112. The 
county department shall provide the State Department approved appeal form to 
the person found to be responsible for abuse and/or neglect. 
e. 
Notice that the scope of the appeal is limited to challenges that the finding(s) are 
not supported by a preponderance of the evidence or that the actions found to be 
abuse and/or neglect do not meet the legal definitions of abuse and/or neglect. 
The State Department will be responsible for defending the determination at the 
state level fair hearing.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
27 
f. 
A full explanation of all alternatives and deadlines is contained in sections 7.111 
through 7.112. 
D. 
When an assessment is completed involving an unregulated custody transfer of a child/youth 
adopted through an intercountry adoption, and it is learned that a person has transferred or 
intends to transfer custody in violation of section 19-5.5-203, C.R.S., then the county department 
shall forward the assessment to the Colorado Department of Human Services. 
7.104.2  
INSTITUTIONAL ABUSE AND/OR NEGLECT - GROUNDS FOR ASSESSMENT 
This section addresses assessments of referrals alleging institutional abuse and/or neglect as defined in 
Section 7.000.2. except that: 
A. 
A referral of a minor injury resulting from physical restraint shall not, by itself, require an 
assessment unless there are surrounding circumstances that would indicate abusive and/or 
neglectful behavior by the care provider. Such circumstances include referrals alleging: 
1. 
Abusive or neglectful behavior, 
2. 
A pattern of frequent injuries by the same caregiver/staff, and/or 
3. 
Similar incidents in the same facility. 
B. 
A referral of medical concern(s) alleging the licensed medical/mental healthcare provider as the 
person responsible for abuse and/or neglect regarding medical decision(s) or action(s) within the 
scope of their license(s) shall not by itself require assessment unless there are surrounding 
circumstances that would indicate abusive and/or neglectful behavior by the medical/mental 
healthcare provider. 
7.104.21 
Agency Responsible for Conducting Institutional Abuse and/or Neglect 
Assessment [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
The county department in which the facility named in the referral is located shall conduct the 
assessment. The assessment shall follow the institutional abuse and/or neglect protocol 
described in Section 7.104.22. 
B. 
The assessment shall be conducted by a qualified and neutral party in those situations in which 
the county department is the supervisory agency, such as for certified county foster and group 
homes. Such an assessment shall be arranged for by the responsible county department with 
either another county department, another agency within the community who accepts delegated 
responsibility, or a disinterested and qualified staff person within the county department. 
7.104.22 
Institutional Abuse and/or Neglect Assessment – Timing and Requirements [Rev. 
eff. 11/1/15] 
The county department conducting the assessment shall assign priority in response time using the criteria 
set forth in Section 7.103.61, B. 
A. 
A face-to-face interview with the alleged victim child(ren) according to procedures for interviewing 
children described in Section 7.104.1. 
B. 
The assessment shall include the following actions: 
1. 
A face-to-face interview with the alleged victim child(ren)according to procedures for 
interviewing children described in Section 7.104.1 and the following:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
28 
a. 
The alleged victim child(ren) shall be interviewed in a setting which is as neutral 
as possible and where confidentiality can be maintained; 
b. 
The alleged victim child(ren) shall not be taken off the grounds for the interview 
unless the county department has court ordered custody or law enforcement has 
taken the child into protective custody; 
c. 
The person(s) alleged to be responsible for the abuse and/or neglect and other 
related parties (i.e., foster parents, spouse or other facility staff) shall not be 
allowed to be present during the interview with the alleged victim child(ren); and, 
d. 
The county department shall, if necessary, obtain a court order to access the 
alleged victim child(ren) if the facility refuses access. 
2. 
The assessment shall determine if there are other victim child(ren) not named in the 
referral and immediately assess the safety of those individuals. 
3. 
The assessment shall obtain the names and addresses of any other alleged victim 
child(ren) who may no longer be in the facility and interview those individuals, if 
appropriate. 
4. 
The assessment shall include interviews of witnesses, including children and staff who 
may have additional information. 
5. 
The assessment shall include making reasonable efforts to interview and advise the 
person(s) alleged to be responsible for the abuse and/or neglect of the referral and afford 
such person(s) an opportunity to respond to the allegations. 
6. 
The assessment shall include obtaining a detailed description of the incident and of the 
injuries and an assessment of the appropriateness of physical management or restraint if 
this was involved. 
7. 
If applicable, the assessment shall include documentation of compliance with the 
reasonable and prudent parent standard in Section 7.701.200, F. 
D. 
If at any point during the assessment, a county department becomes aware that a child/youth is, 
or is alleged to be, a victim of sex trafficking, the county department shall: 
1. 
Report immediately, and no later than twenty-four (24) hours from when the county 
department becomes aware, to the local law enforcement agency; and, 
2. 
Document the details of the report to law enforcement in the state automated case 
management system. 
7.104.23 
Documentation – Report Required [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
A written report of the assessment documented in the state automated case management system 
shall be prepared by the county department that conducted the assessment within sixty (60) 
calendar days after receipt of the referral. 
B. 
A report shall be provided as described below: 
1. 
A written report shall be provided to the facility administrator/director. 
2. 
A written report shall be provided to the agency with licensing/certifying authority.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
29 
3. 
The Institutional Abuse Review Team, Early Childhood and Learning Division, and the 
State Department’s Twenty-Four (24) Hour Monitoring Team, when the incident involves 
a twenty-four (24) hour care facility shall be provided a report through the state 
automated case management system. 
4. 
The same custodial counties as required in Section 7.104.24 shall be provided a report 
through the state automated case management system. 
C. 
The report shall include, at a minimum, the following information: 
1. 
Name(s) of person(s) alleged to be responsible for the abuse and/or neglect; 
2. 
The name(s), age(s), and duration of the alleged victim child(ren)’s placement in the 
facility being assessed; 
3. 
The name of the facility and the county in which it is located; 
4. 
The name of director/administrator of the facility; 
5. 
The approximate number of children served by the facility; 
6. 
The age range of children served by the facility and type of children served (e.g., child 
with developmental disabilities); 
7. 
A summary of activities involved in the assessment, including a list of the individuals 
interviewed; 
8. 
A summary of findings or conclusions, including the information on which the findings or 
conclusions are based; and, 
9. 
A summary of the recommendations and/or need for an identified corrective or remedial 
action. 
7.104.24 
Notice 
A. 
The following individuals shall receive notice: 
1. 
The licensing authority or certifying unit shall be notified that a referral concerning abuse 
and/or neglect has been received within one (1) working day after receipt of the referral. 
2. 
The licensing authority or certifying unit shall be notified if the assessment indicates there 
is an immediate threat to the child(ren)’s health, safety, or welfare within one (1) working 
day of such determination. 
3. 
Custodial agencies, including county departments, other states, and appropriate divisions 
of the State Department shall be notified as follows: 
a. 
Immediately, if there are safety issues or if an injury requires medical treatment; 
and, 
b. 
Following completion of the assessment, if a child in their custody was the 
subject of a referral or if the assessment reveals concerns regarding the 
childcare practices which could negatively impact the child(ren). 
4. 
Parents or legal guardians of alleged child(ren) victim(s) shall be notified as follows:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
30 
a. 
By the custodial counties when alleged abuse and/or neglect occurs in out-of- 
home care setting. 
b. 
By the assessing county when there is no custodial county. 
c. 
By the assessing county when alleged abuse and/or neglect occurs in less than 
twenty-four (24) hour childcare with notification provided prior to an interview with 
child(ren), when possible. 
d. 
When an assessment is being or has been conducted on a referral of abuse 
and/or neglect; and shall include the nature of the alleged abuse and/or neglect 
and the findings of the assessment; and, 
e. 
If circumstances do not allow for direct contact, then notification of the allegations 
of abuse and/or neglect and findings shall be provided in writing. 
5. 
Parents or legal guardians of uninvolved children in less than twenty-four (24) hours 
licensed childcare settings shall be given notice of an assessment within seventy-two 
(72) hours when it has been determined by the State Department or county department 
that: 
a. 
The incident of alleged child abuse and/or neglect that prompted the assessment 
is at the level of a moderate, severe, or fatal incident of abuse and/or neglect, or 
involves sexual abuse. 
b. 
Notice to the parents or legal guardians of the uninvolved children is essential to 
the assessment of the specific allegation of abuse and/or neglect or is necessary 
for the safety of children cared for at the facility; and, 
c. 
A determination has been made and a state or county department supervisor has 
provided written approval of the determination for which basis and approval may 
be in electronic form. 
6. 
The director of the facility or director’s designee shall be: 
a. 
Apprised of the allegation of abuse and/or neglect; and, 
b. 
Advised regarding the results of the assessment and provided a verbal report 
immediately once a determination is made. If the county department is unable to 
make a determination regarding the person(s) alleged to be responsible for 
abuse and/or neglect, the director shall also be advised so that decisions 
regarding the continued employment of the employee can be made by the 
facility. 
7. 
Guardians’ ad litem of alleged victims and or counsel for youth by the custodial county 
when there is an assessment of an allegation of abuse and/or neglect in out-of-home 
care. 
7.104.3 THIRD-PARTY ABUSE AND/OR NEGLECT – GROUNDS FOR ASSESSMENT [Eff. 1/1/15] 
This section addresses assessments of referrals alleging abuse and/or neglect by a third-party, as 
defined in Section 7.000.2, who is not related to the alleged victim child(ren) in the contexts described in 
the previous sections addressing intrafamilial and institutional abuse and/or neglect. 
7.104.31 
Third-Party Abuse and/or Neglect Assessment- Timing and Requirements

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
31 
A. 
When the referral alleges abuse and/or neglect by a third-party ten (10) years of age or older, the 
county department shall immediately forward the referral to the appropriate law enforcement 
agency for screening and investigation. 
B. 
When the referral alleges human trafficking of a minor the county department shall forward the 
referral to the appropriate law enforcement agency. 
C. 
When the referral alleges the abuse and/or neglect by a child under ten (10) years of age, county 
departments shall be the agency responsible for the assessment. The assessment shall focus on: 
1. 
Whether or not the incident occurred; 
2. 
The entire situation including the actions or omissions of adults who are responsible for 
care of the children involved; and, 
3. 
Any interventions that may be necessary to secure safety and address treatment needs. 
D. 
If a county department reasonably believes that the protection and safety of a child is at risk due 
to an act or omission on the part of the persons responsible for the child’s care, the county 
department shall make a referral concerning intrafamilial abuse and/or neglect.1/1/15] 
7.104.32 
Documentation – Report from Law Enforcement [Eff. 1/1/15] 
County departments shall attempt to obtain a copy of the report summarizing any investigation that was 
conducted by law enforcement. If the report is obtained, it shall be the basis upon which the county 
department enters a founded finding of abuse and/or neglect into the state automated case management 
system. 
7.105 
Assessments Involving Allegations of A Youth In Conflict 
A. 
The youth in conflict assessment shall be used based on the following criteria: 
1. 
The referral is assigned for assessment; 
2. 
The referral meets the definition of youth in conflict, as defined in section 7.000.2; and 
3. 
The referral does not contain any new allegations of abuse and/or neglect. 
B. 
The assessment at a minimum shall include: 
1. 
Face-to-face contact with the child/youth alleged to be a youth in conflict if the child/youth 
is able to be located. 
2. 
Face-to-face contact with the primary caregiver; 
3. 
Assessing the likelihood of substantial harm resulting from the conflict and the caregiver’s 
response to the conflict; 
4. 
Considering the strengths and needs of the household; 
5. 
Considering appropriate resources for the child/youth and the household; 
6. 
Making efforts to engage non-custodial parent(s);

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
32 
7. 
Making reasonable efforts to prevent out of home placement which includes: engaging 
family and extended family including sibling/s and their families in supporting the 
child/youth in conflict and their caregiver; providing in home services if appropriate and 
available; and engaging family and extended family in securing a kinship placement if 
needed; 
8. 
Reviewing and updating household demographics in the comprehensive child welfare 
information system with the family for accuracy. 
9. 
The use of the Colorado Family Safety Assessment Tool as described in section 7.107.2; 
10. 
The use of the Colorado Risk Assessment Tool as described in section 7.107.2; 
11. 
If at any point during the assessment, it becomes apparent that the child/youth is 
demonstrating symptoms of a mental health disorder, intellectual and/or developmental 
disability (IDD), a referral shall be made to a mental health and/or IDD provider for 
prescreening and services; 
12. 
If at any point new information is gathered that contains information defined in section 
7.103, a new referral shall be generated; and 
13. 
Documentation of assessment activities within the comprehensive child welfare 
information system 
7.106 
ADDITIONAL CATEGORIES OF ASSESSMENTS [Eff. 1/1/15] 
7.106.1 EGREGIOUS INCIDENTS OF ABUSE AND/OR NEGLECT, NEAR FATALITIES, OR CHILD 
FATALITIES [Eff. 1/1/15] 
The requirements of this section address assessments of referrals of an incident of suspected abuse 
and/or neglect involving any of the following circumstances: 
A. 
Significant violence, torture, use of cruel restraints, or other similar, aggravated circumstance; 
B. 
A child has died; or, 
C. 
A physician has determined that a child is in serious, critical, or life-threatening condition as a 
result of sickness or injury. 
7.106.11 
Assessment Procedures – Timing and Requirements [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
County departments shall conduct a High Risk Assessment (HRA), or traditional response 
assessment of egregious incidents of abuse and/or neglect, a near fatality, or a child fatality in 
intrafamilial and institutional settings in those cases in which: 
1. 
There is reason to know or suspect that abuse and/or neglect caused or contributed to 
the incident; or, 
2. 
The cause of the incident is unknown or the information given is not consistent with the 
degree or type of injury and/or subsequent death. 
B. 
County departments shall:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
33 
1. 
Coordinate with the following agencies to ensure prompt notification of an incident of 
egregious abuse and/or neglect, near fatality, or fatality of a child, which is suspicious for 
abuse and/or neglect: 
a. 
Law enforcement; 
b. 
District attorney’s office; 
c. 
Coroner’s office; and, 
d. 
Hospitals. 
2. 
Coordinate the assessment with law enforcement. At a minimum in cases in which there 
are no surviving children, county departments shall provide law enforcement and the 
coroner with information related to any prior involvement with the child, the family, or the 
person alleged to be responsible for the abuse and/or neglect. 
3. 
Assess the condition of any surviving child(ren) and take action necessary to ensure their 
protection by: 
a. 
Visiting the child(ren)’s home or place of custody; 
b. 
Interviewing and/or observing the child(ren); 
c. 
Examining the child(ren) to include an assessment of the child(ren)’s overall 
current physical, mental, or emotional condition; 
d. 
Assessing the safety of the home environment, to include an interview with the 
parents, guardians, and/or legal custodians; and, 
e. 
Seeking an emergency protective order only when there are reasonable grounds 
to believe that a surviving or non-injured child(ren) is at risk of severe emotional 
or physical harm in his/her home environment. 
7.106.121 
Additional Actions When County Department has had Prior/Current Involvement 
A. 
When a county department has custody of the child/youth and/or protective supervision, it shall 
immediately take the following actions: 
1. 
Notify the parents, guardians, and/or legal custodians of the incident. If the parents, 
guardians, and/or legal custodians reside in another county or state, the county 
department shall coordinate with the county department of residence for the parents, 
guardians, and/or legal custodians to provide personal notification, whenever possible. 
2. 
Notify the sibling/s in an age-appropriate and developmentally appropriate manner of the 
event and any placement changes from the Department of Human Services directly or 
indirectly in consideration of the victim’s preferences when possible. 
3. 
Notify the director of the county department of the incident. The county director shall also 
be immediately notified if the department has had prior child welfare involvement within 
the last three (3) years that was directly related to the egregious incident of abuse and/or 
neglect, near fatality or fatality to include referrals that have been screened out. A 
complete copy of the child/youth’s case record shall be made available to the director of 
the county department.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
34 
4. 
Notify the court, the attorney for the county department, and the Guardian Ad Litem 
(when one has been assigned) and/or counsel for youth (when one has been assigned) 
of the incident involving any child/youth who is under the court’s jurisdiction. 
B. 
Upon notification of an egregious incident of abuse and/or neglect, near fatality or fatality in which 
the county department has had prior child welfare involvement within the last three (3) years with 
the child, family, or person alleged to be responsible for abuse and/or neglect, the director of the 
county department shall take the following actions: 
1. 
Designate an individual(s) who will be responsible for assessing the egregious incident of 
abuse and/or neglect, near fatality or fatality. In the event of a conflict of interest, the 
county department shall arrange for the assessment to be conducted by another county 
department with personnel having appropriate training and skill. 
2. 
When a county department determines that an incident of egregious abuse and/or 
neglect, near fatality, or fatality of a child is founded for child abuse and/or neglect, the 
director shall ensure that the county department conducts a complete internal 
administrative review of any child welfare involvement in the case prior to the egregious 
incident of abuse and/or neglect, near fatality or fatality. This review shall be referred to 
as the county department’s internal review and shall be completed whenever the county 
department has had current or prior involvement with the child, family or person alleged 
to be responsible for the abuse and/or neglect, within the last three (3) years. The review 
shall include, at a minimum: 
a. 
Assessment of the interventions made by the county department. 
b. 
Evaluation of the case plan. 
c. 
Identified areas of strengths and/or weaknesses in the casework process. 
d. 
Analysis of any systemic issues that may have led to delays or oversights. 
e. 
Evaluation of the role played by other community agencies and the overall case 
coordination. 
f. 
Recommendations for staff training or changes in the system that would avoid 
other similar occurrences. 
3. 
Submit a written report of the county department’s internal review within ninety (90) 
calendar days of the initial notification of the egregious incident of abuse and/or neglect, 
near fatality or fatality to the State Department. 
C. 
If another county department also has current and/or prior involvement with the child, family or 
person alleged to be responsible for the abuse and/or neglect within the three (3) year period of 
the incident of egregious abuse and/or neglect, near fatality or fatality (including referrals that 
were screened out), the State Department shall decide whether a county department internal 
review report will be required. 
7.106.13 
Reporting to the State [Eff. 9/1/2018] 
A. 
Within twenty-four (24) hours (excluding weekends and holidays) of a county department 
becoming aware of an egregious incident of abuse and/or neglect, or near fatality or fatality of any 
child, which is suspicious for abuse and/or neglect, the county department shall call or email the 
following known information to the State Department which shall also be documented on the state 
prescribed form:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
35 
1. 
Name and age of victim; 
2. 
The referral identification number generated by the state automated case management 
system; 
3. 
Known circumstances around the egregious incident of abuse and/or neglect, near 
fatality or fatality; 
4. 
A description of physical injuries or medical condition of the child(ren) at the time of 
receipt of the information; 
5. 
The names and ages of surviving or non-injured child(ren) who may be at risk; 
6. 
A brief description of family/caregiver’s prior involvement with child welfare, if any; 
7. 
The actions taken by the county department to date and future actions to be taken; 
8. 
The involvement of other professionals in the case; 
9. 
Whether the child was in out-of-home placement at the time of the incident; and, 
10. 
For fatal incidents, the county shall enter the child’s date of death in the state automated 
case management system. 
B. 
Upon notification of an egregious incident of abuse and/or neglect, near fatality or fatality, the 
county department shall take the required steps to restrict access to the state automated case 
management system to the current assessment of the egregious incident of abuse and/or 
neglect, near fatality or fatality, and any prior involvement in the state automated case 
management system regarding this child, the child’s family members, and the person(s) 
suspected of the abuse and/or neglect. Access shall remain restricted until the conclusion of the 
state child fatality review, at such time the county department shall determine whether the records 
shall be unrestricted. 
C. 
The county department shall provide the following information to the State Department within 
sixty (60) calendar days of the initial notification of the egregious incident of abuse and/or neglect, 
near fatality or fatality, to the extent possible, and no longer than sixty (60) calendar days without 
a written request from the county department for an extension and subsequent State Department 
approval granting an extension: 
1. 
The completed referral/assessment summary in the state automated case management 
system; 
2. 
Copies of any pertinent social, medical, and mental health evaluations of all involved 
subjects (child(ren), family, caregivers, etc.); 
3. 
Coroner's records, including autopsy report; 
4. 
Police reports of present investigation as well as any prior criminal history of all subjects; 
5. 
A copy of any of the case record not obtainable in the state automated case management 
system; 
6. 
A statement of any human services and Medicaid assistance or services that were being 
provided to the child and are recorded in the state automated case management system, 
the Colorado Benefits Management System, or the Colorado child care automated

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
36 
tracking system, any member of the child’s family, or the person alleged to be 
responsible for the abuse and/or neglect; and, 
7. 
The age, income level, and education of the legal caregiver at the time of the fatality. 
 
7.106.14 
State Review of an Incident of Egregious Abuse or Neglect, Near Fatality or Fatality 
of a Child [Eff. 1/1/15] 
When a county department determines that an incident of egregious abuse and/or neglect, near fatality, 
or fatality of a child is founded for child abuse and/or neglect, and where a county department had 
previous involvement within 3 years prior to the date of the incident, the county department shall submit 
reports outlined in 7.106.13 C for review by the State Department in accordance with Section 7.106 of this 
rule, and cooperate with the State Department’s review. The State Department shall conduct a 
multidisciplinary review of such cases, where a county department had previous involvement in the three 
years prior to the incident of egregious abuse and/or neglect, near fatality, or fatality. A county 
representative(s) from each county having previous involvement in the three years prior to the incident 
shall participate in the multidisciplinary review in person, by telephone, or through other emerging 
technology. The State Department Child Fatality Review shall occur within forty-five (45) business days of 
the State Department receiving all required and relevant reports and information critical to an effective 
fatality review. These reviews shall include: 
A. 
The circumstances around the incident of egregious abuse or neglect against a child, near 
fatality, or child fatality; 
B. 
The services provided to the child, the child's family, and the perpetrator by the county 
department for any county with which the family has had previous involvement, as defined in 
paragraph (c) of subsection (2) of this section, within three years prior to the incident of egregious 
abuse or neglect against a child, near fatality, or fatality of a child due to abuse or neglect; 
C. 
The county department's compliance with statutes, regulations, and relevant policies and 
procedures that are directly related to the incident of egregious abuse or neglect against a child, 
near fatality, or fatality; 
D. 
Identification of strengths and best practices of service delivery to the child and the child's family; 
E. 
Consideration of factors that may have contributed to conditions leading to the incident of 
egregious abuse or neglect against a child, near fatality, or fatality, including, but not limited to, 
lack of or unsafe housing, family and social supports, educational life, physical health, emotional 
and psychological health, and other safety, crisis, and cultural or ethnic issues; 
F. 
The supports and services provided to siblings, family members, and agency staff after the 
incident of egregious abuse or neglect against a child, near fatality, or fatality; and, 
G. 
The quality and sufficiency of coordination between state and local agencies 
7.106.15 
CASE SPECIFIC REVIEW REPORT [Eff. 1/1/15] 
The Department will author confidential and non-confidential case specific review reports in accordance 
with Section 26-1-139, C.R.S. As part of this process, the Department shall request a response to the 
case specific review report from any county having previous involvement with the family as defined in 
Section 26-1-139(2)(c), C.R.S., and include the response(s) in the final confidential and non-confidential 
report.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
37 
7.106.16 
CHILD FATALITY REVIEW TEAM ANNUAL REPORT [Eff. 1/1/15] 
By July 1 of each year, the Department will author an annual Child Fatality Review Team report. It shall 
contain the following information: 
A. 
Policy recommendations based on the collection of reviews required by Section 26-1-139(5)(a), 
C.R.S. 
B. 
Status of recommendations made in prior case specific, executive summary reports. This shall 
include all recommendations from publicly posted reports from the most recent, complete 
calendar year and all recommendations from prior years that were not completed at the time of 
the last annual report. 
C. 
Aggregate demographic data. This may include, but not be limited to, data such as age of 
children at the time of the incident, race/ethnicity of the children, relationship of the perpetrator to 
the child, and other factors determined to be of importance. 
D. 
A summary of review findings from reports completed on incidents from the most recent complete 
calendar year. 
E. 
Joint recommendations made with the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment's 
Child Fatality Prevention System as required by Section 25-20.5-407(1)(i), C.R.S. 
7.106.2 MEDICAL NEGLECT OF INFANTS AND TODDLERS WITH DISABILITIES – GROUNDS FOR 
ASSESSMENT [Eff. 1/1/15] 
The requirements of this section address assessments of referrals of medical neglect involving: 
A. 
Infants less than one (1) year of age who were born with a life-threatening condition and who may 
have additional non-lethal physical or mental disabilities; or, 
B. 
Toddlers under three (3) years of age who have been continuously hospitalized since birth, who 
were born extremely premature, or who have a long-term disability. 
7.106.21 
Agency Responsible for Conducting the Assessment [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
The county department responsible for conducting the assessment of a referral of medical 
neglect shall be the county in which the caregivers of the hospitalized infant reside. 
B. 
If the caregivers’ residence cannot be determined, the county department in which the hospital is 
located shall be responsible for conducting the assessment. 
7.106.22 
Assessment Procedures – Timing and Requirements [Eff. 1/1/15] 
County departments shall: 
A. 
Work with medical organizations, hospitals, and health care facilities to implement procedures 
that ensure a timely response and resolution of referrals of medical neglect; 
B. 
Obtain all relevant medical data concerning the child. County departments shall seek a court 
order to obtain records if the request for such material is refused; 
C. 
Coordinate with any existing hospital review committees, which may have evaluated and 
recommended treatment in the case under assessment;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
38 
D. 
If, after assessing the medical neglect referral, there are indications that the referral of medical 
neglect may be founded, the county department shall interview the parent(s); and, 
 
 
E. 
Refer the matter to the local law enforcement agency in cases in which the infant has died before 
the assessment is completed and the county department has reason to suspect withholding of 
medically indicated treatment. The matter shall be referred to the law enforcement agency in the 
location where the child died. However, if it is determined that treatment was not medically 
indicated, or that medically-indicated treatment had not been withheld, then the report shall be 
deemed unfounded. 
7.106.23 
Medical Decisions Regarding Infants and Toddlers [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
County department staff shall make no medical decisions regarding infants and toddlers and shall 
seek an independent medical consultation when indicated. 
B. 
If the parent(s) wish to seek a second medical opinion, the county department shall provide 
referral assistance. 
C. 
If the county department finds that an independent medical evaluation is necessary to determine 
the infant or toddler's medical prognosis, the county department shall recommend to the parent(s) 
that an independent medical evaluation be done. 
D. 
If the county department determines that medically-indicated treatment or palliative care is being 
or will be withheld; and: 
1. 
The infant or toddler's condition requires an urgent response, or, 
2. 
Efforts by the county department or hospital personnel to obtain parental consent to 
treatment would be futile or already have failed, then the matter shall be brought to court 
under a petition. The petition may include a request to place temporary custody of the 
child with the county department to ensure proper medical treatment is provided. The 
county department shall immediately secure a court order if indicated. 
7.106.3 ASSESSMENT OF MEDICAL NEGLECT IN WHICH RELIGIOUS CONSIDERATIONS ARE 
INVOLVED - GROUNDS FOR ASSESSMENT [Eff. 1/1/15] 
County departments shall assess cases of medical neglect including those cases in which there is a 
failure to provide medical treatment based upon the parent's, guardian's, or custodian's religious beliefs 
and there is concern that such failure will result in a threat to child’s health and welfare. 
7.106.31 
Assessment Procedures – Timing and Requirements [Eff. 1/1/15] 
The assessment shall be conducted as described below: 
A. 
The county department shall obtain a medical evaluation if the child’s condition presents 
substantial concern for the child’s health and welfare. This evaluation shall be obtained with the 
consent of the parents, guardians, or legal custodians. If such consent is refused, the county 
department shall seek a court order to obtain medical evaluation;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
39 
B. 
The county department shall consult with medical practitioners and consider whether the child’s 
condition is life-threatening or will result in serious disability without professional medical care; 
and, 
 
 
C. 
If the child's condition is determined to be life-threatening or could result in serious physical 
impairment or serious disability without professional medical care, the county department shall 
seek a court order authorizing the provision of the necessary medical care in the event that such 
care is refused by the parent, guardian, or legal custodian. The county department may, but is not 
required to, seek temporary custody of the child in order to obtain judicial authorization for 
treatment. 
7.106.32 
Spiritual Healing Considerations [Eff. 1/1/15] 
If spiritual healing is involved, the county department shall follow the guidelines defined in Section 19-3-
103(2)(a), (b), C.R.S., to decide whether the method is a “recognized” method of religious healing and 
whether such healing is considered to be medically effective for the child's condition. 
7.106.33 
Impact of Parental Interference on Findings [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
If a parent, guardian, legal custodian, or caregiver inhibits or interferes with the provision of 
medical evaluation or treatment according to a court order, that act would constitute neglect and 
in such circumstances a referral shall be made to law enforcement and the county department 
may file a dependency and neglect petition. 
B. 
For purposes of entering founded findings of abuse and/or neglect into the state automated case 
management system, reporting to police for criminal investigation, and filing of dependency and 
neglect petitions, no child who is under treatment by a recognized method of religious healing 
shall, for that reason alone, be considered to have been neglected and dependent unless the 
child's parent, legal guardian, custodian, or caregiver inhibits or interferes with the provision of 
medical services according to court-ordered medical evaluation or treatment. 
7.106.4 Safe Haven Voluntarily Surrendered Infant Grounds for Assessment 
The requirements of this section address assessments of referrals when an infant is voluntarily 
surrendered to staff at a hospital, community clinic emergency center, or fire station within 72 hours of 
birth and the parent does not express an intent to return for the infant in accordance with section 19-3-
304.5, C.R.S. Requirements set forth in section 7.104 through 7.104.15 do not apply to safe haven 
voluntarily surrendered infant assessments. 
7.106.41 
Agency Responsible for Conducting the Assessment 
The county department responsible for conducting the assessment of a referral of a safe haven 
voluntarily surrendered infant shall be the county in which the infant was voluntarily surrendered. 
7.106.42 
Assessment Procedures – Timing and Requirements 
County departments shall: 
A. 
Assign priority in response time using the criteria set forth in section 7.103.60.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
40 
B. 
Conduct a face-to-face observation with the alleged victim child in accordance with the assigned 
response time. 
C. 
Conduct a check with law enforcement for reported missing infants. 
D. 
Place the infant in a potential adoptive home. 
E. 
Open a case to pursue permanency. 
F. 
Report the assessment to the state department within 5 business days of receiving a referral of a 
voluntarily surrendered infant. 
G. 
If additional allegations of known or suspected abuse and/or neglect are identified during the 
course of the assessment, the requirements set forth in sections 7.104 through 7.104.15 shall 
apply. 
7.106.43 
Findings 
A. 
A parent shall not be the subject of a confirmed allegation of abuse and/or neglect solely based 
on surrendering an infant pursuant to section 19-3-304.5, C.R.S. 
7.106.44 
Documentation Required at Conclusion of Assessment 
A. 
Enter a closure summary containing a brief summary of initial concerns and any additional 
concerns discovered during the assessment and the actions that were taken. 
B. 
The assessment shall be approved by a certified supervisor and closed within sixty (60) calendar 
days of the date the referral was received. 
7.107 
INSTRUMENTS, TOOLS, AND INTERVIEW PROCEDURES 
The following instruments, tools, and procedures are intended to assist county departments in making 
informed and reliable decisions. 
7.107.1 COLORADO FAMILY SAFETY ASSESSMENT TOOL [Rev. eff. 1/1/17] 
There shall be a transition period for completion of training and access to the new Colorado Family Safety 
Assessment Tool in the state automated case management system. All county child welfare case carrying 
staff and supervisors shall be trained and have access to the new tool by January 1, 2017. 
7.107.11 
Parameters for Use of the Colorado Family Safety Assessment Tool 
The Colorado Family Safety Assessment shall be completed: 
A. 
At the time of initial response with household members. 
B. 
As soon as additional household members are available, each household member shall be 
assessed using the current or impending dangers identified in the Colorado Family Safety 
Assessment tool. 
C. 
If household members are not available at the time of initial response, the Colorado Family Safety 
Assessment shall be completed based on the information available and based on the interview or 
observation of the alleged victim child(ren)/youth and/or child/youth in conflict.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
41 
D. 
If no current or impending danger is identified within 14 calendar days through the Colorado 
Family Safety Assessment, interviews with additional household members identified outside of 
the 14 calendar days, shall be documented in the state automated case management system. 
E. 
At the time of contact with the alleged victim child(ren)/youth and/or child/youth in conflict, or 
other family members and current or impending danger is identified, the entire Colorado Family 
Safety Assessment tool shall be completed. 
F. 
The tool shall be completed using available information and accessible household members to 
mitigate the danger. 
G. 
Prior to end dating a safety plan. 
H. 
Whenever there is a significant change in household circumstances or situations that might pose 
a new or renewed threat to the safety of child(ren)/youth. 
I. 
Prior to reunification. 
J. 
Prior to child(ren)/youth returning home. 
K. 
In all program area 5 (PA 5) referrals being assessed, except: 
1. 
Institutional abuse assessments, as described in section 7.104.22; 
2. 
Fatality assessments when there are no surviving siblings, or 
3. 
When caregivers have abandoned an infant as described in C.R.S. 19-3-304.5. 
7.107.12 
Safety Threshold [Eff. 1/1/17] 
The following criteria shall be present to determine that current or impending danger exists. Meeting 
these criteria indicates that the household members behavior, condition or situation threatens the safety 
of a child(ren)/youth: 
A. 
The threat to child(ren)/youth safety is specific and observable; 
B. 
Conditions reasonably could result in moderate to severe harm to a child(ren)/youth; 
C. 
This harm is likely to occur if not resolved; 
D. 
A child(ren)/youth is vulnerable to the threat of harm as defined in the Colorado Family Safety 
Assessment tool, and/or through professional observation; and, 
E. 
The caregiver(s) is unable and/or unwilling to control conditions, situation and/or behaviors that 
threaten child(ren)/youth safety. 
7.107.13 
Assessment of Current or Impending Danger [Eff. 1/1/17] 
A. 
The county department shall use the current or impending dangers outlined in the Colorado 
Family Safety Assessment tool to assess for the safety of identified child(ren)/youth. 
B. 
The list of current or impending danger descriptions shall be referenced when assessing threats 
to child(ren)/youth safety and prior to checking current or impending dangers in the Colorado 
Safety Family Assessment Tool.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
42 
7.107.14 
Safety Assessment Decision [Eff. 1/1/17] 
A. 
If none of the current or impending dangers In The Colorado Family Safety Assessment tool are 
identified, the remaining required sections of the tool shall be completed within fourteen (14) 
calendar days and no further safety intervention is required. 
B. 
If assessment of the child(ren)/youth and household members determines that the 
child(ren)/youth is safe and emergency out-of-home placement occurred prior to the completion 
of the Colorado Family Safety Assessment, efforts should be made to return responsibility for the 
child(ren)/youth’s safety back to the caregiver(s). 
C. 
The caregiver strengths and protective capacity shall be assessed using the strengths and 
protective capacities listed in the Colorado Family Safety Assessment tool to determine whether a 
caregiver has the capacity and willingness to assure the child(ren)/youth’s protection. 
D. 
If the assessment of the child(ren)/youth and household members determines the child(ren)/youth 
is unsafe, further assessment, analysis and planning are necessary as described in 7.107.17. 
7.107.15 
Actions that Respond to Current or Impending Danger [Eff. 1/1/17] 
The action required shall be determined and based on the completion of the Colorado Family Safety 
Assessment tool as follows: 
A. 
If no current or impending danger to the child(ren)/youth has been identified as a part of the 
assessment, no further safety intervention is required; 
B. 
If current or impending danger to the child(ren)/youth has been identified as a part of the 
Colorado Family Safety Assessment tool and caregivers’ strengths, protective capacities and/or 
actions control for the identified danger, no further safety intervention is required; or, 
C. 
If current or impending danger has been identified and caregiver(s) or family actions do not 
control the current or impending danger, safety intervention analysis is required. 
7.107.16 
Safety Intervention Analysis [Eff. 1/1/17] 
A. 
When current or impending danger is identified as described in section 7.107.15 (c) one of the 
following shall be initiated: 
1. 
A safety plan shall be developed that can reasonably be expected to control for identified 
current or impending danger to the child(ren)/youth; or, 
2. 
Human or social service’s custody shall be obtained if it is the only plan that sufficiently 
controls for the current or impending danger. 
7.107.17 
Safety Planning [Eff. 1/1/17] 
A. 
A safety plan shall be developed for all child(ren)/youth in current or impending danger when a 
safety plan can reasonably be expected to control for identified dangers. 
B. 
Safety plans shall be reviewed and approved by a supervisor as soon as possible and no later 
than twenty-four (24) hours from the interview or observation with the alleged victim 
child(ren)/youth.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
43 
C. 
Safety plans shall be documented in the state automated case management system no later than 
fourteen (14) calendar days from the date the alleged victim child(ren)/youth was interviewed or 
observed. 
D. 
Safety plans shall include the following: 
1. 
Identification of each family member and safety management provider who is 
participating in the plan; 
2. 
A description of actions to be taken that address each specific current or impending 
danger, including: 
A. 
Frequency of each action; 
B. 
Who is responsible for each action; 
C. 
The safety response shall have an immediate impact on controlling the identified 
current or impending danger; and, 
D. 
Be readily accessible at a level required to ensure safety. 
3. 
When available, caregiver(s) acknowledgement of current or impending dangers and 
willingness to participate in the safety plan; and, 
4. 
Caseworker activities to oversee the safety plan. 
E. 
Parents, caregivers, and others who are a part of the safety plan shall sign the safety plan and 
receive a copy. The signatures and paper form shall be retained in the file. 
F. 
Safety plans shall not be developed if the safety analysis results in the decision that human or 
social services custody is the only plan that is sufficient to control for all identified current of 
impending danger. 
7.107.18 
Timing and Documentation [Eff.1/1/17] 
A. 
The Colorado Family Safety Assessment tool shall be completed with household members at the 
time of the contact and documented in the state automated case management system no later 
than fourteen (14) calendar days. 
B. 
The Colorado Family Safety Assessment tool shall be approved by a supervisor as soon as 
possible and no later than fourteen (14) calendar days from the date the alleged victim 
child(ren)/youth was interviewed or observed. 
C. 
If the child(ren)/youth is determined to be in current or impending danger, the remainder of the 
Colorado Family Safety Assessment tool shall be completed at the time of contact with available 
information and accessible household members to determine the actions needed that respond to 
the current or impending danger and shall be documented in the state automated case 
management system within fourteen (14) calendar days of the alleged victim child(ren)/youth 
interview or observation. 
D. 
If the child(ren)/youth is determined to be in current or impending danger, the safety assessment, 
safety plan, or decision to initiate human or social services custody shall be reviewed and 
approved through contact with a supervisor as soon as possible and no later than twenty-four 
(24) hours from the interview or observation with the alleged victim child(ren)/youth. Supervisor

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
44 
contact and approval shall be documented in the state automated case management system 
within fourteen (14) calendar days of the alleged victim child(ren)/youth interview or observation. 
7.107.2 Colorado Family Risk Assessment Tool [Rev. eff. 7/10/17] 
There shall be a transition period for completion of training and access to the new Colorado Family Risk 
Assessment Tool in the state automated case management system. All county child welfare case carrying 
staff and supervisors shall be trained and have access to the new tool by January 1, 2017. 
7.107.21 
Parameters for Use of the Colorado Family Risk Assessment Tool [Eff. 1/1/17] 
A. 
The Colorado Family Risk Assessment tool shall be completed: 
1. 
With the household members; 
2. 
As part of any Program Area 5 assessment, except: 
a. 
Institutional assessment as described in section 7.104.22; 
b. 
Fatality assessment when there are no surviving siblings; or, 
c. 
When caregivers have abandoned an infant as described in C.R.S. 19-3-304.5. 
B. 
The Colorado Risk Assessment Tool shall be used to: 
1. 
Determine risk for future abuse and/or neglect; 
2. 
Aid in determining if services should be provided; and, 
3. 
Aid in determining the appropriate level of services. 
7.107.22 
Procedures for Completing the Colorado Family Risk Assessment Tool [Eff. 1/1/17] 
The Colorado Family Risk Assessment tool shall be completed with the family, and shall address all areas 
of risk on the tool. 
7.107.23 
Risk Analysis [Eff. 1/1/17] 
If the risk assessment score is high, the county shall document reasonable efforts to hold a family 
engagement meeting to discuss next steps with the family. 
7.107.24 
Timing and Documentation [Eff. 1/1/17] 
A. 
The completed Colorado Family Risk Assessment shall be documented in the state automated 
case management system within thirty (30) calendar days from the date the referral was received. 
B. 
Family Engagement Meetings shall be documented in the framework in the state automated case 
management system. 
C. 
If the risk assessment score is high and the county department decides to close the assessment 
without providing services, the county department shall document in the statewide case 
management system how they reached the decision.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
45 
7.107.3 YOUTH SAFETY ASSESSMENT TOOL (Reserved for Future Use) 
7.107.4 COLORADO HUMAN TRAFFICKING SCREEN PARAMETERS FOR USE: 
The Colorado human trafficking screen shall be completed: 
A. 
Anytime a county accepts a referral for assessment with human trafficking concerns. 
B. 
Anytime during an open assessment or case where new concerns related to human trafficking 
arise. 
C. 
Anytime a child/youth in state custody returns to care from runaway or missing status 
7.107.5 Colorado Plan of Safe Care parameters for use 
The Colorado Plan of Safe Care shall be completed: 
A. 
Any time a referral is accepted for assessment and the child meets the definition of substance 
exposed newborn as described in 19-1-103(1)(a)(vii), C.R.S and 19-3-102(1)(g), C.R.S. 
B. 
The Colorado Plan of Safe Care shall be completed based on the information available and 
based on the interview or observation of the alleged victim child(ren) and in collaboration with 
parents, caregivers, medical providers, and others who may be a part of the plan. 
C. 
A Colorado Plan of Safe Care shall be documented in the state automated case management 
system and approved within sixty (60) calendar days from the date the referral was received. 
7.107.51 
When to complete a Colorado Plan of Safe Care 
The action required shall be determined and based on an assessment that contains an allegation of 
substance exposed newborn as follows: 
A. 
If a Colorado Plan of Safe Care has not been created by a medical, treatment or community 
provider, the caseworker shall create a Colorado Plan of Safe Care, and/or; 
B. 
When a Colorado Plan of Safe Care has been developed by a medical, treatment or community 
provider, the caseworker shall update the Colorado Plan of Safe Care to reflect the current 
circumstances. 
7.108 
DEFERRAL PROCESS – WHEN PERMITTED [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
County departments may follow the deferral process in the following circumstances: 
1. 
When the person has had no previous allegations of abuse and/or neglect assessed; 
2. 
When the abuse and/or neglect that the person is found to be responsible for is at the 
level of minor incident of abuse and/or neglect, pursuant to Section 7.000.2; 
3. 
When the person found to be responsible for the abuse and/or neglect and the county 
department decide on a mutually agreeable method for resolving the issues related to the 
referral; and, 
4. 
When the requirements set forth in the agreement for resolving the issues related to the 
referral of abuse and/or neglect can be completed within sixty (60) calendar days after 
the receipt of the referral.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
46 
B. 
County departments are not obligated to enter into any agreements to defer entering a finding of 
founded abuse and/or neglect into the state automated case management system. 
C. 
The agreement shall be in writing and signed by the caseworker and the person found to be 
responsible for the abuse and/or neglect, and reviewed by the supervisor. 
D. 
Upon deciding to enter into the deferral process, the county department shall document the 
decision in the state automated case management system. 
7.108.1 DEFERRAL PROCESS COMPLETED [Eff. 1/1/15] 
If the person who is found to be responsible for the abuse and/or neglect completes the agreement, as 
determined by the county department, the county department shall make an individual finding of 
“deferred” with an overall finding of founded into the state automated case management system regarding 
the referral of abuse and/or neglect related to the assessed incident. 
7.108.2 DEFERRAL PROCESS NOT COMPLETED [Eff. 1/1/15] 
If the person who is found to be responsible for the abuse and/or neglect does not complete the 
agreement, as determined by the county department, the county department shall make an entry for the 
individual and overall finding of “founded” into the state automated case management system regarding 
abuse and/or neglect related to the assessed incident. 
7.109 
ENTERING FOUNDED FINDINGS REPORTS OF CHILD ABUSE OR NEGLECT [Eff. 1/1/15] 
In a High Risk Assessment or non-dual track counties, the county department shall enter the founded 
finding even if there is a criminal or civil proceeding pending against the person responsible arising out of 
the same incident. The reported data shall include the following: 
A. 
The name, address, gender, date of birth, and race of the child(ren) victim(s); 
B. 
The composition of the victim’s immediate family; 
C. 
At a minimum, the name and last known mailing address of the person found to be responsible 
for the child abuse or neglect, and the date of birth and Social Security Number, if known; 
D. 
The type of abuse or neglect; 
E. 
The severity of the abuse or neglect; 
F. 
Any previous incidents of child abuse or neglect of child or siblings; 
G. 
The name(s) and address(es) of any person(s) responsible for previously founded abuse or 
neglect, if known; 
H. 
The name of the source of the referral submitted to the county department, if known; 
I. 
The county department that investigated the referral; and, 
J. 
The date the suspected abuse or neglect referral was made to the county department and the 
date the county department made a founded finding of the abuse or neglect.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
47 
7.110 
NOTICE TO THE PERSON FOUND TO BE RESPONSIBLE FOR CHILD ABUSE OR NEGLECT 
[Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
The county department shall notify the person found responsible for child abuse or neglect of the 
finding by first-class mail to the responsible person's last known mailing address, using a form 
approved by the State Department. The county department shall retain a copy of the notice in the 
case file showing the date of mailing. 
B. 
At a minimum, the notice shall include the following information: 
1. 
The type and severity level of the abuse or neglect, the date the referral was made to the 
county department, which county department completed the assessment, the date the 
county made the finding in the state automated case management system, and 
information concerning persons or agencies that have access to the information. 
2. 
The circumstances under which information contained in the state automated case 
management system will be provided to other individuals or agencies. 
3. 
How to access the county’s dispute resolution process. Counties are authorized to offer a 
county dispute resolution process to persons alleged to be responsible for an incident of 
child abuse or neglect. 
4. 
The right of the person found responsible to request a state level appeal as set forth in 
Section 7.111. The county shall provide the State Department approved appeal form to 
the person. 
5. 
Notice that the scope of the appeal is limited to challenges that the finding(s) are not 
supported by a preponderance of the evidence or that the actions found to be child abuse 
or neglect do not meet the legal definitions of child abuse or neglect. The State 
Department will be responsible for defending the determination at the State level fair 
hearing. 
6. 
A full explanation of all alternatives and deadlines contained in Sections 7.111 through 
7.112. 
7.111 
STATE LEVEL APPEAL PROCESS [Eff. 6/1/23] 
A. 
Persons found responsible for an incident of child abuse or neglect by the county department 
shall have the right to a state level appeal to contest the finding. The request for appeal of the 
decision shall first be submitted to the State Department unit designated to handle such appeals. 
If the State Department and the Appellant are unable or unwilling to resolve the appeal in 
accordance with the provisions set forth below in this section, the State Department shall forward 
the appeal to the Office of Administrative Courts (OAC) to proceed to a fair hearing before an 
Administrative Law Judge (ALJ). 
B. 
The grounds for appeal shall consist of the following: 
1. 
The findings are not supported by a preponderance of credible evidence; or, 
2. 
The actions ultimately found to be abusive or neglectful do not meet the statutory or 
regulatory definitions of child abuse or neglect. 
C. 
The person found to be responsible for child abuse or neglect shall have ninety (90) calendar 
days from the date of the notice of founded finding to appeal the finding in writing to the State 
Department. The written appeal shall be submitted via the State approved online form or using

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
48 
the hard copy appeal form provided to the person found responsible for child abuse or neglect by 
the county department and shall include: 
1. 
The contact information for the Appellant; 
2. 
A statement detailing the basis for the appeal; and, 
3. 
The county department notice of finding of responsibility for child abuse or neglect. 
D. 
The state level appeal process must be initiated by the person responsible for child abuse or 
neglect or his/her legal representative. The Appellant need not hire an attorney to appeal the 
county determination. If the individual is a minor child, the appeal may be initiated by his/her 
parents, legal custodian, or legal representative. 
 
 
E. 
The appeal must be submitted to the State Department within ninety (90) calendar days of the 
date of the notice of founded finding. If the appeal is filed more than ninety (90) calendar days 
from the date of the notice of founded finding, the Appellant must show good cause for not 
appealing within the prescribed period as set forth in Section 7.000.2, A. Failure to request State 
review within this ninety-day (90) period without good cause shall be grounds for the State 
Department to not accept the appeal. 
F. 
The founded finding shall be utilized for safety and risk assessment, employment, and 
background screening by the State Department while the administrative appeal process is 
pending. 
G. 
The Appellant shall have the right to appeal even if a dependency and neglect action or a criminal 
prosecution for child abuse is pending arising out of the same report. The State Department shall 
hold in abeyance the administrative process pending the outcome of the dependency and neglect 
or criminal action if requested by the Appellant or if the State Department determines that 
awaiting the outcome of the court case is in the best interest of the parties. If the Appellant 
objects to the continuance, the continuance shall not exceed one hundred eighty (180) days 
without the Appellant having the opportunity to seek review of the extended continuance by an 
Administrative Law Judge. The pendency of other court proceeding(s) shall be considered to be 
good cause to continue the appeal past the one hundred eighty (180) day timeframe. 
H. 
The following circumstances shall be considered to be admissions to the factual basis of the 
finding of responsibility for child abuse or neglect entered into the state automated case 
management system and shall be considered to be conclusive evidence of the person’s 
responsibility for child abuse or neglect to support a motion for summary judgment submitted to 
the Office of Administrative Courts: 
1. 
When a Dependency and Neglect Petition has been adjudicated against or a deferred 
adjudication entered against the Appellant on the basis of Sections 19-3-103 or 19-3-102 
(1)(a), (b), or (c), C.R.S., arising out of the same factual basis as the founded finding in 
the state automated case management system; 
2. 
The Appellant has been found guilty of child abuse, or has pled guilty or nolo contendere 
to child abuse as part of any plea agreement including, but not limited to, a deferred 
judgment agreement, arising out of the same factual basis as the founded finding in the 
state automated case management system; or,

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
49 
3. 
The Appellant has been found guilty or has pled guilty or nolo contendere to a domestic 
violence related or alcohol traffic related offense arising out of the same factual basis as 
the founded report in the state automated case management system. 
I. 
When an Appellant requests an appeal, the State Department shall request the records relied 
upon in making the finding from the county department responsible for entering the finding, which 
has been appealed. The county department shall submit the record to the State Department as 
soon as practicable within the time frame requested by the Department. 
J. 
After the Appellant requests an appeal, the State Department shall inform the Appellant regarding 
the details of the appeal process, including timeframes and contact information. 
1. 
The Appellant, as the party in interest, shall have access to the county record in order to 
proceed with the appeal. Appellant’s use of the county file for any other purpose is 
prohibited unless otherwise authorized by law. 
 
2. 
Prior to providing access to the Appellant, the State Department shall redact identifying 
information contained in the county file to comply with state and federal law regarding the 
confidentiality of child abuse or neglect records or other protected information including, 
but not limited to, reporting party name(s) and addresses, Social Security Number, foster 
parent identifying information, and information pertaining to other parties in the case that 
the appellant does not have a legal right to access. 
K. 
The State Department is authorized to enter into settlement negotiations with the Appellant as 
part of the litigation process. The State Department is authorized to enter into settlement 
agreements that modify, overturn or expunge the reports as reflected in the state portion of the 
state automated case management system. The State Department is not authorized to make any 
changes in the county portion of the state automated case management system. In exercising its 
discretion, the State Department shall take into consideration the best interests of children, the 
weight of the evidence, the severity of the abuse or neglect, any pattern of abuse or neglect 
reflected in the record, the results of any local court processes, the rehabilitation of the Appellant, 
and any other pertinent information. 
L. 
The State Department and the Appellant shall have one hundred twenty (120) days from the date 
that the State Department receives the appeal to resolve the issue(s) on appeal. The 120 day 
time limit may be extended by agreement of both the Appellant and the State Department if it is 
likely that the additional time will result in a fully executed settlement agreement or resolution of 
the appeal. 
M. 
As soon as it is evident within the 120 days that the Appellant and the State Department will not 
resolve the issue(s) on appeal, the State Department shall forward a copy of the Appellant’s 
original appeal document(s) to the Office of Administrative Courts in order to initiate the Office of 
Administrative Courts fair hearing process. 
N. 
If, by the end of the 120 day period, the State Department has been unable to contact the 
Appellant using the information submitted by the Appellant, including by first class mail, and the 
Appellant has not contacted the State Department, the appeal shall be deemed abandoned. The 
finding entered by the county department shall be upheld in the state automated case 
management system without further right of appeal. The State Department shall notify the 
Appellant of this result by first class mail to the address submitted by the Appellant.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
50 
7.112 
STATE FAIR HEARING BEFORE THE OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE COURTS 
A. 
When the Office of Administrative Courts receives the appeal documents from the State 
Department, the Office of Administrative Courts shall docket the appeal and enter a procedural 
order to the parties indicating the following: 
1. 
The date and time for a telephone scheduling conference with the parties. 
2. 
During the telephone scheduling conference, the Office of Administrative Courts shall 
determine the date for the hearing. Following the scheduling conference, the Office of 
Administrative Courts will issue a further procedural order and notice of hearing. The 
order/notice will contain the hearing date, the fourteen (14) day deadline for the notice of 
issues, the fourteen (14) day deadline for response and deadline for filing pre-hearing 
statements. Any party requiring an extension or modification of any of the deadlines in 
the order may file a request with the Administrative Law Judge. The Office of 
Administrative Courts shall also issue a protective order which will protect and govern the 
handling of all pleadings, discovery, and evidence. The order must be signed by an 
Administrative Law Judge and must state that: 
a. 
Any documents exchanged by the parties containing confidential information, 
including, but not limited to pleadings, Trails reports and investigative records, 
medical records, law enforcement investigation records, and documents 
regarding child victims will be used for the sole purpose of proceeding with this 
appeal. 
b. 
The parties may disclose confidential information to their attorneys or any expert 
witness only as necessary for the prosecution or defense of the appeal. The 
appellant is not authorized to disclose or use confidential information for any 
other purpose. 
c. 
The parties may exchange discovery containing information that is confidential 
under department rule 12 CCR 2509-2, § 7.111. 
d. 
To the extent that the parties may disclose confidential records to expert 
witnesses, the parties shall provide a copy of the protective order to the expert 
witnesses and advise the expert witness of his or her obligation not to disclose 
the records or information learned from the confidential records. 
e. 
The exchange and use of the confidential information or records does not waive 
the right of either party to object to the admission of the documents into evidence 
on any grounds. 
f. 
If the parties use or offer confidential information or records as evidence during 
the course of the hearing, counsel and the parties shall take reasonable 
measures to protect such information or records from public disclosure including 
but not limited to filing records under seal. 
g. 
The appellant must destroy or return to the department all protected health and 
abuse and neglect information (including all copies made) at the end of the 
appeal or, should the appellant choose to pursue any further administrative 
remedies, when those remedies have been exhausted. 
h. 
The hearing regarding the factual basis for the child abuse and/or neglect finding 
shall be closed to the public.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
51 
i. 
This order does not prohibit the department from using documents or information 
as authorized, required, or permitted by law. 
3. 
The notice of issues shall include the following: 
a. 
The specific allegations(s) that form the basis of the county department’s finding 
that the Appellant was responsible for child abuse or neglect; 
b. 
The specific type and severity of child abuse asserted against Appellant and the 
legal authority supporting the finding; and, 
c. 
To the extent that the State Department determines that the facts contained in 
the state automated case management system support a modification of the type 
or severity of child abuse or neglect determined by the county department, the 
State Department shall so notify the county department and the Appellant of that 
modification and the process shall proceed on the modified finding(s). 
4. 
The Appellant shall respond to the State Department’s submittal by providing the factual 
and legal basis supporting the appeal to the State Department and to the Office of 
Administrative Courts. 
5. 
If the Appellant fails to participate in the scheduling conference referenced above or fails 
to submit the response referenced herein, the Office of Administrative Courts shall deem 
the appeal to have been abandoned by the Appellant and render an Initial Decision 
Dismissing Appeal. In accordance with the procedures set forth below, the Office of 
Appeals may reinstate the appeal for good cause shown by the Appellant. 
6. 
In the event that either party fails to respond to a motion to dismiss filed in the appeal, the 
Administrative Law Judge shall not consider the motion to be confessed and shall render 
a decision based on the merits of the motion. 
B. 
The Administrative Law Judge shall conduct the appeal in accordance with the Administrative 
Procedure Act, Section 24-4-105, C.R.S. The rights of the parties include: 
1. 
The State Department shall have the burden of proof to establish the facts by a 
preponderance of the evidence and that the facts support the conclusion that the 
Appellant is responsible for the child abuse or neglect indicated in the notice of issues 
provided by the State Department. The state automated case management system is not 
the only acceptable evidence for establishing that the finding is supported by a 
preponderance of evidence; 
2. 
Each party shall have the right to present his or her case or defense by oral and 
documentary evidence, to submit rebuttal evidence, and to conduct cross-examination; 
3. 
Subject to these rights and requirements, where a hearing will be expedited and the 
interests of the parties will not be subsequently prejudiced thereby, the Administrative 
Law Judge may receive all or part of the evidence in written form or by oral stipulations; 
4. 
A telephonic hearing may be conducted as an alternative to a face-to-face hearing unless 
either party requests a face-to-face hearing in writing. The written request for a face-to-
face hearing must be filed with the Office of Administrative Courts and the other party at 
least ten (10) calendar days before the scheduled hearing. A request for a face-to-face 
hearing may necessitate the re-setting of the hearing; and,

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
52 
5. 
Where facilities exist that have videoconferencing technology local to the county 
department that made the founded finding, either party may request that the hearing be 
conducted via that technology. The requesting party shall investigate the feasibility of this 
approach and shall submit a written request outlining the arrangements that could be 
made for video conference. The Office of Administrative Courts shall hold the hearing via 
videoconferencing for the convenience of the parties whenever requested and feasible. A 
request for a hearing via videoconferencing may necessitate the re-setting of the hearing. 
C. 
At the conclusion of the hearing, unless the Administrative Law Judge allows additional time to 
submit documentation, the Administrative Law Judge shall take the matter under advisement. 
After considering all the relevant evidence presented by the parties, the Administrative Law Judge 
shall render an Initial Decision for review by the Colorado Department of Human Services, Office 
of Appeals. 
 
 
D. 
The Initial Decision shall uphold, modify or overturn/reverse the county finding. The 
Administrative Law Judge shall have the authority to modify the type and severity level of the 
child abuse or neglect finding to meet the evidence provided at the hearing. The Administrative 
Law Judge shall not order the county to modify its record; rather, the State Department shall 
indicate the outcome of the appeal in its portion of the state automated case management 
system. 
E. 
When an Appellant fails to appear at a duly scheduled hearing having been given proper notice, 
without having given timely advance notice to the Office of Administrative Courts of acceptable 
good cause for inability to appear at the hearing at the time, date and place specified in the notice 
of hearing, then the appeal shall be considered abandoned and the Administrative Law Judge 
shall enter an Initial Decision Dismissing Appeal. In accordance with the procedures set forth in 
Section 7.114, the Office of Appeals may reinstate the appeal for good cause shown by the 
Appellant. 
7.113 
TRANSITION TO THE NEW APPEAL PROCESS [Eff. 1/1/15] 
Appeals shall be submitted to the Colorado Department of Human Services section authorized by the 
Executive Director to process these appeals, using the state approved appeal form provided to individuals 
who have been found responsible for an incident of child abuse or neglect. 
7.114 
STATE DEPARTMENT OFFICE OF APPEALS FUNCTIONS [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
Review of the Initial Decision and hearing record and entry of the Final Agency Decision shall be 
pursuant to state rules at Sections 3.850.72 - 3.850.73 (9 CCR 2503-8). 
B. 
Review shall be conducted by a State adjudicator in the Office of Appeals not directly involved in 
any prior review of the county report being appealed. 
C. 
The Final Agency Decision shall advise the Appellant of his/her right to seek judicial review in the 
State District Court, City and County of Denver, if the Appellant had timely filed Exceptions to the 
Initial Decision. 
D. 
If the Appellant seeks judicial review of the Final Agency Decision, the State Department shall be 
responsible for defending the Final Agency Decision on judicial review.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
53 
E. 
In any action in any court challenging a county’s founded finding of child abuse or neglect, the 
State Department will defend the statutes, rules, and state-mandated procedures leading up to 
the finding, and will defend all county actions that are consistent with statutes, rules, and state-
mandated procedures. The State Department shall not be responsible for defending the county 
department for actions that are alleged to be in violation of, or inconsistent with, state statutes, 
state rules or state-mandated procedures. 
7.115 
CONFIDENTIALITY OF APPEAL RECORDS [Eff. 1/1/15] 
A. 
All records submitted by the parties as part of the state level appeal process and all notices, 
orders, agency notes created by or made part of the State Department’s agency record shall be 
confidential and shall not be released or disclosed unless such release or disclosure is permitted 
by the applicable state statutes or Section 7.605. 
B. 
Initial and Final Agency Decisions where information identifying the Appellant, victim(s), other 
family members, or other minors have been blocked out may be released to the public.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
12 CCR 2509-2 
Social Services Rules 
 
54 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Rule 7.111 eff. 10/01/2007. 
Entire rule repealed eff. 08/01/2012. 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2015. 
Rules 7.107.1, 7.107.2 emer. rules eff. 07/10/2015. 
Rules 7.104.22, 7.107.1, 7.107.2 eff. 11/01/2015. 
Rules 7.104.1 A-C, 7.104.22 D eff. 10/01/2016. 
Rules 7.107.1-7.107.2 eff. 11/01/2016. 
Rule 7.106.14 eff. 07/01/2017. 
Rules 7.100, 7.101, 7.102.1-7.102.3, 7.103, 7.103.2 eff. 08/01/2017. 
Rules 7.103.61, 7.103.8 A eff. 02/01/2018. 
Rules 7.102.3 G.1, 7.103.3-7.103.6, 7.104, 7.104.1 eff. 03/02/2018. 
Rules 7.106.121 B.2-3, 7.106.13 C eff. 09/01/2018. 
Rules 7.103 A, 7.103.4, 7.103.5, 7.103.60, 7.103.61, 7.105, 7.107.11 eff. 03/15/2019. 
Rule 7.104.131 eff. 01/01/2020. 
Rules 7.105 B.7, 7.106.121 A eff. 06/01/2020. 
Rule 7.103 C eff. 01/30/2021. 
Rules 7.104.1 C.10, 7.104.1 D, 7.104.14 J, 7.104.31, 7.107.4 eff. 07/30/2021. 
Rule 7.112 A.2 emer. rule eff. 09/03/2021. 
Rule 7.112 eff. 11/30/2021. 
Rules 7.103 B.2, 7.103 C, 7.103.3-7.103.10 eff. 12/30/2021. 
Rules 7.104, 7.106.121 B.1, 7.106.4-7.106.44 eff. 01/30/2022. 
Rules 7.103 A.5.e, 7.104.1 C.14, 7.104.131 D, 7.104.14 K, 7.107.5, 7.107.51 eff. 03/30/2022. 
Rules 7.103.2 A.3, 7.103.21, 7.103.4 F-G, 7.103.6 A.4, 7.104.2, 7.104.24 A.6-7 eff. 06/30/2022. 
Rules 7.104.12, 7.104.24, 7.106.121 A eff. 03/02/2023. 
Rule 7.111 C eff. 06/01/2023. 
Rules 7.103.4, 7.103.71, 7.104.132 eff. 07/01/2023. 
Rule 7.104.2 eff. 03/01/2024. 
Rules 7.102.1 D, 7.104.132 A.2, 7.104.15 B.3 eff. 06/01/2024. 
Rules 7.103.5 I-J, 7.103.6 A, 7.103.6 D, 7.104.15 B.3, 7.104.15 B.4, 7.104.15 C.2.d, 7.104.15 C.2.f, 
7.104.15 D eff. 05/30/2025. 
Rules 7.103 A.2.h-l, 7.103 A.3.e-i, 7.103 A.4.f-k, 7.103 A.11, 7.104.14, 7.105 eff. 10/01/2025. 
Rules 7.103, 7.103.5 J, 7.103.6 D, 7.104.15 D eff. 01/30/2026.
