---
id: "1_CCR_301-25"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1 CCR 301-25"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=11685&fileName=1%20CCR%20301-25&type=pdf"
---

#### 1_CCR_301-25. 1 CCR 301-25

1 
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
Colorado State Board of Education 
COLORADO MINIMUM STANDARDS GOVERNING SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION VEHICLES 
1 CCR 301-25 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
1.0 
Statement of Basis and Purpose 
1.1 
Colorado law provides for the State Board of Education to adopt and enforce regulations 
governing the safe operation of school buses and school transportation vehicles used for the 
transportation of students pursuant to Sections 22-51-108 and 42- 4-1904, C.R.S. 
1.2 
The purpose of these rules is to adopt and enforce regulations governing the reasonable and 
adequate standards of safety for school buses and school transportation vehicles that promote 
the welfare of the students and afford reasonable protection to the public. The purpose of the 
amendments is to update the minimum standards to align with recent federal standards and 
reflect current industry practices. 
1.02(a) This does not include informal or intermittent arrangements, such as sharing of actual 
gasoline expenses or participation in a carpool and the use of vehicles rented and/or 
leased that are operated in other states. 
1.02(b) Exemption: Vehicles that carry students as part of their operation as a common carrier 
under the jurisdiction of the United States Department of Transportation or Colorado 
Public Utilities Commission are not included within the definition of a school 
transportation vehicle, including transportation network companies; except that common 
carriers (other than public transit) that are contracted to provide route transportation 
carrying 12 or more students per route shall comply with sections 6 through 49 of these 
Rules without regard to the operator’s status as a common carrier. 
1.3 
The Commissioner, or designee, may provide an exemption to these Minimum Standards to the 
extent the Commissioner finds an exemption to be appropriate. 
2.0 
Effective Date 
2.1 
Except as indicated in Rule 6.01(a), of these rules, school transportation vehicles manufactured, 
per the date listed on the certification plate, or decal, on or after the effective date of these rules, 
for the purpose of transporting Colorado students shall meet or exceed the Minimum Standards. 
2.2 
School districts, charter schools, and service providers are discouraged from operating school 
buses, per Rule 7.15, of these rules, that were manufactured, per the date listed on the 
certification plate, or decal, which are over 25 years of age. 
2.3 
School districts, charter schools, and service providers shall not sell or lease any school bus or 
school transportation vehicle(s) over 20 years of age, per the date listed on the certification plate, 
or decal, to any other school district, charter school, or service provider for the use of transporting 
Colorado students for any purpose. Likewise, a school district, charter school, or service provider 
shall not purchase any school bus or school transportation vehicle over 20 years of age. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
2 
2.4 
School districts, charter schools, and service providers are discouraged from operating school 
transportation small-capacity vehicles, per rule 7.19, of these rules, that were manufactured, per 
the date listed on the certification plate, or decal, which are over 15 years of age. 
3.0 
Testing and Certification 
3.1 
School bus manufacturers shall provide annual certification to the Colorado Department of 
Education that their product(s) meet or exceed the regulations in Colorado Minimum Standards 
and all applicable Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards (FMVSS) in effect at the time of 
manufacture. School bus manufacturers shall record and report to CDE the test results as 
required by Section 8, Construction, of these rules. All school bus bodies that meet applicable 
FMVSS regulations and comply with the Minimum Standards shall be certified by the school bus 
manufacturer by attaching a certification plate or decal. 
3.2 
It shall be the responsibility of the school district, charter school, and service provider to ascertain 
whether all school buses purchased, leased, or under contract to the school district, charter 
school, or service provider meet all specifications of the Minimum Standards. This verification 
should be obtained at the time of delivery, in addition to the statement of compliance in the 
purchase bid, contract for, or lease agreement. 
3.3 
When selling a school transportation vehicle, it is the responsibility of the school district, charter 
school, or service provider to eliminate the school district, charter school, or service provider’s full 
name from the vehicle. 
3.4 
New and used school bus dealers, and service providers, shall register with the Colorado 
Department of Education, School Transportation Unit, certifying that only school transportation 
vehicles meeting or exceeding Colorado Minimum Standards will be sold leased, rented, or used 
in contracted services to a school district, charter school, or service provider providing 
transportation from home to school, school to school, and to school-related events in Colorado. 
There shall be no fee to register. Service providers will be required to renew their registration 
every five years. 
3.5 
All school transportation vehicles must meet and continue to meet all applicable FMVSS 
regulations in effect on the date of manufacture, per the date listed on the certification plate or 
decal. 
4.0 
Responsibility of Suppliers 
4.1 
Dealers, distributors, manufacturers of school buses, and school transportation vehicles each 
have a responsibility to comply with the Minimum Standards on or after the effective date of these 
rules. 
4.2 
Dealers, distributors, or manufacturers that supply school buses and school transportation 
vehicles for use in the State of Colorado that do not meet the specifications of these rules shall be 
notified of non-compliance and a written notice will be sent to all school districts, charter schools, 
and service providers within the State of Colorado advising that equipment supplied by such 
dealer, distributor, or manufacturer is not in compliance with the Minimum Standards. 
4.02(a) If a dealer, distributor, or manufacturer has been notified of non-compliance in 
accordance with Rule 4.2 of these rules and replaces or modifies the equipment to meet 
the Minimum Standards, a written notification of compliance will be issued from the 
Colorado Department of Education (CDE) within 30 days after proof of compliance.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
3 
4.3 
Under 49 U.S.C. 30101, et seq., a vehicle is regarded as being sold for use as a school bus if, at 
the time of sale, it is evident that the vehicle is likely to be significantly used to transport students 
to or from school or school-related events. The National Highway Transportation Safety 
Administration (NHTSA) prohibits the purchase or lease of new school transportation small-
capacity vehicles pursuant to 49 US Code, Section 30112(a)(2). While Federal regulations do not 
prohibit the use of vans by schools, they do require any van (with a capacity of more than 10) 
sold or leased for use as a school bus to meet the safety standards applicable to school buses. 
Each state prescribes its own regulations that apply to the use of any vehicle that is used to 
transport students. See Section 6.0 of these rules. 
5.0 
Bus Delivery Requirements 
5.1 
The bus manufacturer shall provide the following materials and information for direct delivery to 
the customer upon request: 
5.01(a) Line set tickets for each individual unit including chassis and body, 
5.01(b) A copy of the pre-delivery service performed and verified by a checkout form for each 
individual unit, 
5.01(c) Warranty book and statement of warranty for each individual unit, 
5.01(d) Service manual (hard copy or electronic copy) for each individual unit or identical units for 
all major components of the bus (e.g., body, chassis, transmission, etc.), and 
5.01(e) Parts manual (hard copy or electronic copy) for each individual unit or identical units for 
all major components of the bus (e.g., body, chassis, transmission, etc.). 
6.0 
Prohibited Use 
6.1 
Under federal law (49 USC 30112(a)), a new over-the-road motor coach bus shall not be sold for 
the purpose of transporting school-age students to and from school or to school related events 
unless it meets all FMVSS regulations for school buses. 
6.01(a) Upon passage of a local board of education resolution, a school district, charter school, 
or service provider may purchase an over-the-road motor coach bus and/or attain a 
short-term rental of a motor coach bus from a contract carrier for the transportation of 
students to school related events. Such a resolution shall specify that consideration was 
given to the standards of safety to promote the welfare of students, including 
recommendations from national transportation organizations. 
6.2 
A motor coach shall not be used for transporting students to and from school or school to school 
for route purposes. 
6.02(a) A board resolution is not necessary for transporting students on public transit common 
carriers. 
6.3 
Type B, C, and D multifunction buses shall not be used for transporting students to and from 
school for route purposes. 
6.4 
Effective January 1, 2025, pursuant to Section 8 of these rules, vehicles with a capacity of more 
than 12 passengers that do not meet the definition of a Type A School Bus or a Type A 
Multifunction Bus, or do not meet the Colorado Rack and Load, Kentucky Pole Test, and FMVSS 
School Bus Safety Standards, as required, are prohibited from transporting students for any 
reason.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
4 
6.5 
Per the effective date of these rules, school transportation vehicles, per Rule 7.17, of these rules, 
owned or leased by the school district, charter school, or service providers that are used for 
student transportation shall not have the windows obstructed in any way by advertising, 
decorations, or vehicle wraps. 
6.05(a) Exception: Tint applied by the vehicle manufacturer to industry standards. 
6.05(b) Exception: Route identification is permitted per Rule 28.5, of these rules. 
6.6 
Any type of passenger vehicle with a fiberglass roof shall not be permitted to transport students 
unless it meets Colorado Rack and Load. 
7.0 
Definitions 
7.1 
Boards of Cooperative Educational Services - (BOCES) means a regional educational service 
unit designed to provide supporting, instructional, administrative, facility, community, or any other 
services contracted by participating members pursuant to Section 22-5-103(2), C.R.S. 
7.2 
Charter School - a charter school is a public school that operates pursuant to a charter contract 
entered into pursuant to the provisions of Article 30.5 of Title 22. As used in this title, unless the 
context otherwise requires, “Charter School” includes any type of Charter School created 
pursuant to the provisions of Article 30.5 of Title 22, Section 22- 1-101(2), C.R.S. 
7.3 
Colorado Rack and Load Test - is designed to verify the structural integrity and crashworthiness 
of school bus design as outlined in rule 8.8 and rule 8.9 of these rules. The test simulates a 
rollover crash by applying a constant load along the full length of the bus body. This ensures that 
all push-out windows and emergency exits will be fully functional after an accident occurs. 
7.4 
GVWR – means Gross Vehicle Weight Rating. 
7.5 
Kentucky Pole Test - is designed to verify that the interior panels above the window will not 
separate and expose sharp edges in the event of a crash. The test involves a rollover simulation, 
in which the bus strikes a pole-like object, which forces the roof to bend into the passenger 
compartment. Standards require that separation of body panels must not occur when the roof 
bends between 8-10 inches. 
7.6 
Fifteen Passenger Van - is a van, not a Type A school bus, that has the capacity of transporting 
more than 12 passengers, not including the driver. 
7.7 
Lease – More than seven consecutive calendar days. 
7.8 
Local Board of Education (LEA) - means the Board of Education of a school district or the 
governing board of a BOCES. 
7.9 
Motorcoach - is a bus that has a high elevated floor, with a full row of luggage bays found below 
the main cabin. It also has premium features such as restrooms, reclining seats, power outlets, 
television, etc. 
7.10 
Multifunction School Activity Bus (MFSAB) - is a type of school bus that is required to meet all 
FMVSS regulations applicable to school buses, except those requiring the installation of traffic 
control devices. Pursuant to Rule 6.3, of these rules, Type B, C, and D multifunction buses should 
not be used for transporting students to and from home to school for route purposes. 
7.10(a) Exception: Per I CCR 301-26, 19.1, Type A multifunction buses may be used to transport 
students to and from school, school to school for route purposes and activities.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
5 
7.11 
Public School District - means a public school district that derives its support, in whole or in part, 
for money's raised by a general state, county, or district tax pursuant to Section 22-1-101, C.R.S. 
7.12 
Regenerative Braking System - this is a mechanism found on most hybrid and full electric 
vehicles. It captures the kinetic energy from braking and converts it into the electrical power that 
charges the vehicle's high-voltage battery. Regenerative braking also slows the vehicle down, 
which assists the use of traditional service brakes. 
7.13 
Rented – Seven or less consecutive calendar days. 
7.14 
SAE - Acronym for Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc. 
7.15 
School Bus - means a passenger vehicle that is designed and used to carry more than 12 
passengers in addition to the driver, and which the Secretary of Transportation determines is 
likely to be significantly used for the purpose of transporting pre-primary, primary, or secondary 
school students to or from school or an event related to school. School buses are specifically 
designed for maximum safety. 
7.16 
School Bus Eight-Way Alternating Flashing Warning Signal Lamps - are amber and red lamps 
mounted at the same horizontal level intended to identify the vehicle as a school bus and to 
inform other users of the highway that such vehicle is stopped or about to stop on the roadway to 
take on or discharge school children. 
7.17 
School Transportation Vehicle - means every motor vehicle that is owned by a school district, 
charter school, or service provider and operated, rented, or leased for the transportation of 
students to and from school, from school to school, or to school- related events, or which is 
privately owned and operated for compensation provided that such transportation service is 
sponsored and approved by the local Board of Education or schools governing body and 
operating within the State of Colorado. 
7.18 
Secondary Braking System - includes retarders, engine brakes, turbo brakes, driveline, brakes, 
etc. 
7.19 
Small-Capacity Vehicle - means a motor vehicle, which does not meet the requirements of Type 
A, B, C, or D school buses, designed for general purpose use. These vehicles (12 passengers 
including the driver or less) may be used to carry students to and from school, from school to 
school, or to school-related events, and shall meet or exceed all applicable rules and regulations. 
7.20 
Specially Equipped Bus – is any bus that is designed, equipped, and/or modified to accommodate 
students with special transportation needs. 
7.21 
Transportation Network Company (TNC) - transportation provided by a company or individual as 
part of their operation as a common carrier, or transportation network company operating 
pursuant to Section 40-10.1-602(3), C.R.S., under the jurisdiction of the US Department of 
Transportation or the Public Utilities Commission. 
7.22 
Type A School Bus - is a conversion or body constructed utilizing a cutaway front- section vehicle 
with a left-side driver's door and a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of 21,500 pounds or less. 
7.23 
Type B School Bus - is a body constructed and installed upon a stripped chassis. Part of the 
engine is beneath and/or behind the windshield and beside the driver's seat. The service door is 
behind the front wheels.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
6 
7.24 
Type C School Bus - is constructed utilizing a chassis with a hood and fender assembly. This 
includes the cutaway truck chassis, including the cab, with or without a left-side driver door, and 
with a GVWR greater than 21,500 pounds. The service door is behind the front wheels. 
7.25 
Type D School Bus - is constructed utilizing a stripped chassis, the engine may be behind the 
windshield and beside the driver's seat; or it may be at the rear of the bus, behind the rear 
wheels. The service door is ahead of the front wheels. 
7.26 
Vehicle Seating Capacity - is the number of passengers (excluding the driver) assigned by the 
manufacturer as indicated on the certificate plate, or decal and cannot be changed by the 
purchaser. 
7.27 
Wheelchair Tie-Down Occupant Restraint System (WTORS) – is a system or device for securing 
wheelchairs and a system of belts for restraining occupants seated in the secured wheelchairs. 
This can include both strap-type and docking-type securement systems. 
8.0 
Construction 
8.1 
All metal surfaces that will be painted shall be chemically cleaned, etched, zinc phosphate- 
coated and zinc-chromate or epoxy primed or conditioned by an equivalent process. Particular 
attention shall be given to lapped surfaces, welded connections of structural members, cut edges, 
punched or drilled hole areas in sheet metal, closed or box sections, unvented or undrained 
areas, and surfaces subject to abrasion during vehicle operation. 
8.2 
The floor shall be at least 14-gauge, mill applied, zinc-coated steel sheet, and shall be on one 
plane. There shall be a main floor cross member of at least 10-gauge steel or equivalent 
extending the full width of the floor plate and permanently attached. There shall be a minimum of 
two intermediate floor cross members of at least 16-gauge steel equally between the main floor 
cross members and permanently attached. 
8.02(a) Type A buses 14,500 GVWR or less, may use other metal or material with strength and 
corrosion resistance at least equivalent to all-steel construction as certified by the bus 
body manufacturer. 
8.3 
The subfloor shall be either five ply nominal 5/8 inches thick plywood, or a material of equal or 
greater strength and insulation R-value and it will equal or exceed properties of exterior-type 
softwood plywood C-D grade, as specified in National Bureau of Standards (NBS) Product 
Standard 1-83. Type A buses, 14,500 GVWR or less, shall have nominal ½-inch thick plywood or 
equivalent material equal to or exceeding the properties listed above. 
8.4 
Ceiling Panels: If the ceiling is constructed to contain lap joints, the forward panel shall be lapped 
by the rear panel, and the exposed edges shall be beaded, hemmed, flanged, or otherwise 
treated to eliminate sharp edges. 
8.5 
All body components shall be designed and constructed to avoid the entrapment of moisture and 
dust. 
8.6 
All openings between the chassis and passenger-carrying compartment made for any reason 
must be sealed. 
8.7 
On Type B, C, and D buses, the bus body shall meet the test standards of the Kentucky Pole 
Test as outlined in rule 8.8.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
7 
8.8 
In addition to complying with FMVSS 220 test procedures, the body manufacturer shall record 
and report the downward vertical movement of the force at 0, 25, 50, 75, and 100% of the 
maximum force (both loading and unloading). The expected force- deflection curve is Illustrated 
schematically in Figure 1a. Low load nonlinearities may indicate joint confirmation; high load 
nonlinearities may indicate yielding structural members. 
8.08(a) A second load cycle shall be performed following the procedure given in the first 
paragraph. The expected force-deflection curve is Illustrated schematically in Figure 1b. 
Any hysteresis following the initial shakedown will be revealed by this second cycle. 
 
Figure 1. Static Load Test Load-Deflection Curves 
8.9 
A diagonal (racking) load test shall be performed on Type A, B, C, and D school buses to ensure 
adequate shear stiffness and strength of the bus body. Details of the tests are provided below. A 
two-cycle loading sequence shall be conducted following the procedure described in Rule 8.08 of 
these rules. 
8.09(a) Requirements: When a force equal to 1 ½ times the GVW is applied to the edge of the 
roof of the vehicle's body structure through a force application plate as specified in (b), 
Test Procedures: 
8.09(a)(1) 
The diagonal movement of the force at any point on the application plate 
shall not exceed 5 ⅛ inches. 
8.09(a)(2) 
Each emergency exit of the vehicle provided in accordance with FMVSS 
217 shall be capable of operation as specified in that standard during the full 
application of the force and after the release of the force. 
8.09(b) Test Procedures: Each vehicle shall be capable of meeting the requirements of (1) and 
(2) when tested in accordance with the procedures set forth below. 
8.09(b)(1) 
The vehicle shall be supported on a rigid surface along the lower edge of 
the frame or along the body sills in the absence of a frame. 
8.09(b)(2) 
The load shall be applied through a force application plate that is flat and 
rigid. The dimensions of the plate shall be chosen to ensure that the plate edges 
never make contact with the vehicle skin during testing. The typical width is 18 
inches. A typical length is 20 inches less than the length of the vehicle's roof 
measured along its longitudinal centerline. 
8.09(b)(3) 
Place the force application plate in contact with the edge of the vehicle 
roof. Orient the plate so that its flat, rigid surface is perpendicular to a diagonal 
line connecting the most distant points on an interior cross-section of the vehicle. 
The rear edge of the plate shall be positioned approximately 20 inches from the 
rear edge of the vehicle roof. A temporary stand may be used to support the 
plate until a force is applied.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
8 
8.09(b)(4) 
Apply an evenly distributed force in a diagonally downward direction 
through the force application plate at any rate not more than 0.5 inches per 
second, until a force of 500 pounds has been applied. 
8.09(b)(5) 
Apply additional force in a diagonally downward direction through the 
force application plate at a rate of not more than 0.5 inches per second until the 
force specified in (a) has been applied and maintains this application of force. 
8.09(b)(6) 
Measure the diagonal movement of any point on the force application 
plate that occurred during the application of force in accordance with Rule 
8.09(b)5 and upon the emergency exits as specified in Rule 8.09(a)2 of these 
rules. 
8.09(b)(7) 
Release all diagonal force applied through the force application plate and 
operate the emergency exits as specified in Rule 8.09(a)(2) of these rules. 
8.09(c) Test Conditions: The following conditions apply to the requirements specified in Rule 
8.09(b)(3). 
8.09(c)(1) 
Temperature: the ambient temperature is any level between 32 degrees 
Fahrenheit and 90 degrees Fahrenheit. 
8.09(c)(2) 
Windows and Doors: Vehicle windows, doors, and emergency exits are 
in the fully closed position and latched but not locked. 
8.09(d) An alternative method of testing for the racking load test shall be as follows: 
8.09(d)(1) 
The racking load shall be applied along a line connecting the most 
distant points on a transverse cross-section of the bus interior. It produces a 
shear distortion of the cross-section as shown in Figure 2. 
A representative method of loading which employs a hydraulic jack to load a two-frame test 
assembly is Illustrated in Figure 2. 
The maximum jack load for the two-frame assembly is determined by the following formula: 
J = 2P J - maximum jack load for two-frame test assembly 
P = load/frame 
where P = DVW divided by N 
DVW = dynamic vehicle weight 
N = total number of bus body frames and DVW = DF x GVW 
DF = dynamic factor, not less than 1.5 
GVW = gross vehicle weight 
Thus, for a DF = 1.5, a GVW = 22,000 pounds-force (lbf), and N = 11, the dynamic vehicle weight 
is DVW = 33,000 lbf, the load/frame is P=3000 lbf and the maximum jack load is j = 6000 lbf.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
9 
8.09(d)(2) 
When a complete bus body is rack loaded, the total load DVW must be 
distributed uniformly along the bus body. One method is to mount a series of 
hydraulic jacks along the length of the bus interior. Seats may be removed to 
facilitate jack mounting. The rack load will be considered to be uniformly 
distributed when the variation in the hydraulic jack readings is less than 10%. A 
maximum load for DVW shall be the sum of all jack readings. 
 
Figure 2: Transverse Cross Section 
 
 
Side View 
Arrangement of Hydraulic Jack for Rack-Loading of Two-Frame Assembly 
8.09(d)(2)(A) 
The test may be performed on a complete bus body or on a 
representative section composed of at least two complete frames (body 
posts plus roof bows) and floor. Standard seats may be installed in the 
test section in a manner identical to that of the full bus body. Fabrication 
procedures for the test assembly shall be identical to normal bus body 
production. 
8.09(d)(2)(B) 
A two-cycle loading sequence shall be conducted, with 
intermediate and final load and deflection readings recorded according to 
the procedure described. 
8.09(d)(2)(C) 
The maximum deflection in line with the jack (A, maximum) shall 
not exceed four inches. 
8.09(d)(3) 
Manufacturers shall specify which testing method was used and submit 
appropriate certification information as called for and 3.1 of these rules. 
9.0 
Aisle 
9.1 
The minimum aisle clearance between seats and for all emergency doors shall be 12 inches at 
seat level. 
9.2 
On forward (front engine) Type D buses, the aisle passage area shall not be less than 12 inches, 
measured from floor level up, between the engine cover and any other object. Hold-down 
fastening devices used on the engine cover shall be designed to prevent hooking or catching on 
clothes or clothing. 
10.0 
Axles 
10.1 
The rear axle shall be single-speed.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
10 
11.0 
Battery (Low Voltage) 
11.1 
On Type B, C, and D buses, a drawer-type pull-out tray shall be provided to facilitate servicing or 
removal of battery(ies) not used for the motive propulsion of the bus. The battery(ies) shall be 
enclosed by a vented compartment, provided with drain ports, a hold-down carrier mounted to 
avoid blocking filler ports, and a latching device to prevent accidental opening. Under-coating 
shall be provided and applied to the battery box. The battery tray is to be equipped with a safety 
device to keep the tray from sliding completely out. 
11.2 
On Type A buses equipped with more than one battery, all batteries should be positioned in one 
location. 
11.3 
Battery labels should be placed at all locations where batteries are installed. 
11.4 
Batteries shall be equipped with sufficient battery cable to allow the drawer-type pull-out tray to 
fully extend. 
12.0 
Brakes 
12.1 
Type C and D buses shall be equipped with full compressed air brake systems. Both air drum 
brake and air disc brake applications are acceptable. 
12.2 
Air Brakes: 
12.02(a) 
Compressors: On buses using full compressed air brakes for service, 
emergency, and parking brakes, the compressor shall be a standard production model 
but the minimum 12 cubic foot per minute displacement 
12.02(b) 
Moisture ejection valve: An automatic heated, moisture ejection valve or air- 
drying system shall be properly installed. This is made to automatically eject moisture, 
sludge, and/or foreign matter and maintain clean, dry air lines. 
12.02(c) 
Control requirements: The control valve for the parking brake system shall be 
designed and constructed to conform with the following: 
12.02(c)(1) 
The parking brake control valve shall be visible to the driver and shall be 
mounted on the dash panel within 15 inches to the right of the steering column. 
13.0 
Bumpers 
13.1 
Front bumper shall: 
13.01(a) 
Be at least 3/16 inch thick of pressed steel channel, one-piece construction with 
a minimum of eight-inch width (high), except Type A buses under 14,500 GVWR. 
13.01(b) 
Be of extended design to offer maximum protection of fender lines without 
permitting snagging or hooking. 
13.01(c) 
Be attached to the frame and extend forward of the grille, headlights, fender, or 
hood sections to provide maximum protection. 
13.01(d) 
Be of sufficient strength to ensure that the front of the bus may be lifted by 
means of a bumper-type jack without permanent deformation of the bumper. 
13.2 
Rear bumper shall:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
11 
13.02(a) 
Be of pressed steel channel or equivalent material, at least 3/16 inch thick, and 
shall be a minimum of eight inches wide (high) on Type A buses and shall be a minimum 
of 9 ½ inches (high) on Type B, C and D buses. 
13.02(b) 
Be wrapped around the back corners of the bus and extend forward at least 12 
inches from the rear-most point of the body at the floor line. 
13.02(c) 
Be fastened to chassis frame side rails in such a manner as to develop the full 
strength of the bumper section from a rear or side impact. Bracing materials shall have 
an impact ratio comparable to that of the bumper material and shall be fastened at the 
ends and radii of the bumper, attached to the side of the frame only, and not to the body 
at any point. 
13.02(d) 
Extend beyond the rear-most part of the body surface at least 1-inch, measured 
at floor lines. 
13.02(e) 
Not allow spaces, projections, or cutouts that will permit a hand-hold or foot- 
hold. 
13.02(f)  
Have the front ends enclosed by end caps or other protective metal or have the 
ends rounded or tucked in and shall be free from sharp edges or projections likely to 
cause injury or snagging. 
13.02(g) 
Have a gasket, rubber, or equivalent, installed to close the opening between the 
top of the rear bumper and body metal. 
13.02(h) 
Be of sufficient strength to permit being pushed by another vehicle of similar size. 
The bumper shall be of sufficient strength to ensure that the rear of the bus may be lifted 
by means of a bumper-type jack without permanent deformation of the bumper. 
13.3 
Bumper stickers and/or signage are considered advertising. Consistent with Rule 30.09(a) of 
these rules, advertising must have prior written CDE approval. 
13.03(a) 
One bumper sticker, no larger than 3.75 inches by 15 inches, may be included on 
the rear bumper of school transportation vehicles. 
13.03(b) 
An American flag sticker, no larger than 7 inches by 11 inches, may be included 
on school transportation vehicles, consistent with the limitations outlined in Rule 30.09(a), 
of these Rules. 
13.03(c) 
Bumper stickers and/or signage shall not be located in the rear windows of the 
school transportation vehicles. 
13.03(d) 
Bumper stickers and/or signage that do not comply with the above exemptions 
will need to be remediated. 
14.0 
Color 
14.1 
All exterior metal shall be painted National School Bus Glossy Yellow (NSBY) except for: 
14.01(a) 
Lettering and numbering shall be black, white, or yellow for the bumper area. 
14.01(b) 
Bumpers and frames shall be black.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
12 
14.01(b)(1) 
Exception: Bumpers may be colored blue or green to reflect the type of 
fuel being used in the vehicle. 
14.01(c) 
Rub rails shall be black or yellow. 
14.01(c)(1) 
Exception: Rub rails may be colored blue or green on an electric vehicle 
(EV) or to reflect the type of fuel being used in the vehicle. 
14.01(d) 
The background area for alternating flashing warning lights shall be black. 
14.01(e) 
The roof of the bus may be painted white, not to extend below the drip rails on 
the sides of the body. 
14.01(f)  
Student window frames, post and service door frame may be black. 14.01(g) The 
hood of the bus may be painted matte black. 
15.0 
Cooling System 
15.1 
A permanent ethylene-glycol base or environmentally safe equivalent anti-freeze shall be 
provided to protect the cooling system to -30 degrees Fahrenheit when tested at normal engine 
temperature. 
15.2 
The cooling system shall be equipped with a visual fluid level indicator. 
16.0 
Defrosters 
16.1 
A defroster system shall be installed of sufficient capacity to keep the windshield area, the left 
front side window to the rear of the driver's vision, and the service door glass area free of 
condensation or ice. 
16.2 
The defrosting system shall conform to the requirements of the Society of Automotive Engineers, 
Inc. (SAE) J381-202006. 
16.3 
A minimum of one and no more than three adjustable 6-inch auxiliary fans shall be installed to 
complement the defroster system used by the manufacturer. Such fans shall be controlled 
individually by two-speed switches located on the control panel. The fan blade shall be covered 
with the protective cage. 
16.3(a) The fans shall be located to not interfere with the driver's horizontal line of sight vision. 
17.0 
Doors 
17.1 
The service door shall be power or manually operated, under the control of the driver, and so 
designed to afford easy release and prevent accidental opening. When the manual lever is used, 
no parts shall come together to sheer or crush fingers. 
17.2 
Manual door controls shall not require more than 25 pounds of force to operate at any point 
throughout the range of operation as tested on a 10% grade both uphill and downhill. Power door 
controls shall be located within easy access of the driver. 
17.3 
The service door shall be located on the right side of the bus opposite the driver and within the 
driver's direct view.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
13 
17.4 
Power-operated doors shall be equipped with a separate manual emergency release, readily 
accessible in the door area, either above the service door, to the side of the service door, or on 
the dash, so that the door may be opened in the event of an emergency. The release shall be 
plainly labeled with instructions for use. 
17.5 
There shall be a head bumper pad installed on the inside at the top of the entrance door. The pad 
shall be approximately three inches wide (high), at least one inch thick, and extend across the 
entire top of the service door opening. 
18.0 
Drive Shaft 
18.1 
Each drive shaft or section thereof shall be equipped with adequate metal guard(s) to prevent 
whipping through the floor or dropping to the ground if broken. 
19.0 
Electric Drive High Voltage Specs (EV) 
19.1 
An electric-powered school transportation vehicle shall meet all Federal Motor Vehicle Safety 
Standards and all SAE standards that are applicable at the time of manufacture. 
19.2 
EV-Specific Labeling 
19.02(a) 
Each door, cover, or other panels that afford immediate access to any high 
voltage area shall be plainly marked with a hazard warning label which shall read 
WARNING-HIGH VOLTAGE or DANGER - HIGH VOLTAGE. This label shall be in a 
highly conspicuous place. All high-voltage access areas shall be equipped with a lock or 
otherwise secured to prevent unauthorized access. 
19.02(b) 
An EV identifying label shall be affixed to the right rear corner of the bus body. 
An additional label shall be applied to the right side of the bus rear of the entrance door 
and to the left side of the bus in front of the driver's window. 
19.3 
EV High Voltage Drive System Batteries 
19.03(a) 
EV High Voltage Batteries shall not be in or accessible from the interior of the 
school bus. 
19.03(b) 
Energy storage for the EV High Voltage Drive System shall be protected from 
crash impacts and shall be encased in a non-conductive, acid-resistant compartment. 
This compartment shall be well-ventilated to preclude the possibility of hydrogen gas 
buildup. Energy storage shall be in an area and in such a way as to provide ease of 
service. 
19.03(c) 
EV High Voltage Batteries shall require automatic electrical isolation in the case 
of a vehicle crash. 
19.03(d) 
EV High Voltage-Powered Vehicles: Buses utilizing a high voltage propulsion 
system (more than 48 nominal volts) shall meet the requirements of FMVSS 305, Electric 
Powered Vehicles: Electrolyte Spillage and Electrical Shock Protection, except for the 
following: 
19.03(d)(1) 
The propulsion power source (batteries, fuel cells, etc.) shall be located 
outside the passenger compartment. 
19.03(d)(2) 
The propulsion power source enclosure shall be constructed to conform 
to the power source manufacturer’s requirements and recommendations.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
14 
19.03(d)(3) 
Due to the much larger size and quantities of the propulsion power 
sources on larger vehicles, buses over 10,000 lbs. are permitted to exceed the 
5.0-liter spillage. Electrolyte damage from propulsion batteries and the 
requirements to statically rotate the vehicle on its longitudinal access post-test. 
19.4 
EV High Voltage Wiring Standards and Protection 
19.04(a) 
Wire, cable, and conductor insulation in the High Voltage System shall provide 
adequate insulation for the voltage used and for ambient temperatures ranging from -15 
degrees Fahrenheit to 120 degrees Fahrenheit. All high voltage circuits shall be bright 
orange in color or otherwise labeled as HIGH VOLTAGE. All high-voltage circuits shall 
provide adequate and automatic protection against electrical overloads caused by short 
circuits or other excessive current conditions through the use of fuses, circuit breakers, 
and ground fault interruption. 
19.04(b) 
The EV Drive System shall have a system for protecting system components 
from thermal damage due to electrical overload. This system shall include temperature 
sensors at critical points and be capable of reducing EV Drive System electrical power 
when necessary. 
19.04(c) 
The EV High Voltage System shall be designed so that when the ignition switch 
is off or in accessory mode, the propulsion motor is positively disconnected. All other 
accessories powered by the main propulsion battery circuit shall remain operable when 
the ignition switch is in accessory mode. 
19.04(d) 
All buses shall be equipped with an additional manual and automatic switch or 
device independent of the propulsion motor disconnect controls that permit the positive 
disconnection of all circuits from the Drive System Batteries. This switch shall be 
operable from outside the vehicle. Each door or panel providing access to this switch 
shall be plainly marked to indicate that it is a main-power-disconnect switch or device. 
19.04(e) 
The ignition switch circuit shall be linked to the Battery Management System and 
shall prevent driving the vehicle while it is connected to an external battery charging 
source. 
19.04(f)  
The charging connection point shall be outside the passenger compartment. 
19.04(g) 
The High Voltage System shall be designed to prevent the passenger 
compartment from becoming energized. 
19.04(h) 
Battery packs shall be cooled and heated as necessary to maintain proper 
operating temperatures. 
19.5 
EV Instrumentation 
19.05(a) 
In addition to the required gauges, the instrument display panel must also contain 
an indication showing the state of charge (power and/ or range). 
19.05(b) 
The instrument display panel shall have a warning light that indicates when an 
EV drive system component exceeds a safe temperature. The warning light should 
illuminate prior to critical temperature to allow sufficient time to safely stop the bus. 
19.05(c) 
The instrument display panel shall have a warning light that indicates when an 
EV Drive System has a mechanical or electrical fault.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
15 
19.6 
EV Range 
19.06(a) 
All electric school buses shall have an OEM design that is capable of operating 
with a range of 100 miles or more on a current charge. 
19.7 
Sound Generation 
19.07(a) 
All electric school buses shall comply with FMVSS 141 producing sound while in 
motion below 20 mph. 
19.8 
Propulsion System 
19.08(a) 
The propulsion system on all-electric school buses shall be of sufficient power to 
propel the vehicle fully loaded up to 65 mph. 
19.08(b) 
The propulsion system may be mounted utilizing a normal drivetrain or positioned 
in a way to provide direct power to the wheels. All propulsion systems must be contained 
below the floor line and cannot come into contact with the road surface. 
19.9 
Brakes 
19.09(a) 
On electric school buses, brakes may produce regenerated power. 19.09(b) Park 
brake testing procedure: 
19.09(b)(1) 
Allow the brake system air pressure to build to at least 100 psi. 
19.09(b)(2) 
Place the drive selector of the vehicle in low gear, release the parking 
brake, and drive the vehicle forward to a speed of three (3) to five (5) mph. 
19.09(b)(3) 
While in motion place the vehicle in neutral and engage the parking 
brake and the vehicle should stop. 
19.10 
Passenger Heating System 
19.10(a) 
On electric school buses the heating system must be capable of meeting 
performance and design standards without a fuel-fired heater. See Section 27.0 of these 
rules. 
19.10(b) 
Heating systems that are independent of other cooling system functions may 
forgo the use of manual shutoff valves to the passenger compartment as long as the flow 
of coolant can be stopped by means of a heating system shut down or an electric heater 
control valve. 
20.0 
Emergency Equipment 
20.1 
All school transportation vehicles, except for small-capacity vehicles, shall be equipped with at 
least one pressurized, five-pound, dry-chemical fire extinguisher, with a total rating of not less 
than 2A10BC. The operating mechanism shall be sealed with a type of seal that will not interfere 
with the use of the fire extinguisher. 
20.01(a) 
The fire extinguisher shall be securely mounted in an extinguisher bracket 
(automatic type) and located in full view of and readily accessible to the driver within the 
cab, or in a location plainly indicated by appropriate signage. A pressure gauge shall be 
mounted on the extinguisher to be easily read without removing the extinguisher from its 
mounted position.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
16 
20.01(b) 
Fire extinguishers shall be inspected annually for charging and certification to 
standards by a certified fire extinguisher technician. 
20.2 
Small-capacity vehicles shall be equipped with one securely mounted, 2 ½ pound, dry chemical 
fire extinguisher with a minimum rating of 1A10BC. 
20.3 
First Aid Kit: All school transportation vehicles shall carry one First Aid Kit which shall be securely 
mounted in full view of the driver or with the location plainly indicated by appropriate signage. 
Additional kits may be installed. The kit(s) shall be mounted for easy removal. 
20.03(a) 
The kit shall be sealed. The seal verifies the integrity of the contents without 
opening the kit. The seal shall be designed to allow easy access to the kit’s contents. If 
zip ties are used to seal the kit, they must be breakaway zip ties. 
20.03(b) 
Consideration should be given to replacing items in the First Aid Kit every 36 
months due to the breakdown of materials. 
Contents of the 24-Unit First Aid Kit: 
Item 
Unit(s) 
Adhesive tape 
1 
1-inch bandage compress 
2 
2-inch bandage compress 
1 
3-inch bandage compress 
1 
4-inch bandage compress 
1 
4-inch x 3-inch plain gauze pads 
1 
Gauze roller bandage 2-inch wide 
2 
Plain absorbent gauze -½ square yard 
4 
Plain absorbent gauze- 24-inch by 72 inches 
3 
Triangular bandages 
4 
Scissors, Tweezers 
1 
Space rescue blanket 
1 
Non-latex disposable pair of gloves 
1 
CPR mask or mouth to mouth airway 
1 
Moisture and dustproof kit of sufficient capacity to store the required items. 
20.4 
Emergency Reflectors: All school transportation vehicles shall carry three bidirectional emergency 
triangle reflectors in compliance with Section 42-4-230, C.R.S. and with FMVSS 125, contained in 
a securely mounted case easily accessible to the driver or in a location plainly indicated by 
appropriate markings. 
20.5 
Body Fluid Cleanup Kit: All school transportation vehicles shall have a one removable body fluid 
cleanup kit accessible to the driver, within the cab, or in a location plainly indicated by appropriate 
signage. 
Contents of the Basic Body Fluid Clean-Up Kit: 
Item 
Unit(s) 
Antiseptic towelette 
1 
Disinfected towelette 
1 
Absorbing powder (capable of 1/2-gallon absorption) 
1 
Non-latex disposable pair of gloves, pair  
1 
Disposable wiper towels 
2 
Disposable scoop bag with closure mechanism and scraper 
Moisture and dustproof container of sufficient capacity to store the required items.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
17 
20.05(a) 
Consideration should be given to replacing items in the Body Fluid Cleanup Kit 
every 36 months due to the breakdown of materials. 
20.6 
All school transportation vehicles shall be equipped with one durable webbing cutter having a full-
width handgrip and a protected blade. The cutter shall be mounted in a location accessible to the 
seated driver. 
20.6 
(a)Seat belt cutters shall be replaced after they have been used, or if there is any sign of rust or 
corrosion on the blade. 
20.7 
Emergency Equipment shall be securely mounted, clearly visible, or in a location plainly indicated 
by appropriate signage 
21.0 
Emergency Exits 
21.1 
All emergency exits shall conform to FMVSS 217. 
21.2 
A district, charter school, and service provider may choose to have more emergency exits 
installed. 
21.3 
Emergency doors may be installed in place of emergency windows. 
21.03(a) 
Emergency door(s) shall be equipped with a three-point latch mechanism. The 
inside door handle shall be designed with a guard for protection against accidental 
release. 
21.03(b) 
The exterior door handle shall be of a permanent hitch-proof design and mounted 
with enough clearance to permit opening without touching the door surface. 
21.03(c) 
All emergency door openings shall be completely weather-stripped. No 
obstruction shall be higher than 1/4 inch across the bottom of any emergency door 
opening. 
21.03(d) 
A head bumper pad shall be installed over the emergency door on the inside of 
the bus body. The pad shall be approximately 3-inches wide (high), at least 1-inch thick, 
and extend across the entire top of the emergency door opening. The padding shall be of 
the same materials as the padding used over the service door. 
21.03(e) 
The rear emergency door shall contain upper and lower glass panels that comply 
with FMVSS 205. Glass in the emergency door shall provide the maximum area of 
visibility for the safe operation of the bus. 
21.03(f)  
The emergency window glass shall meet FMVSS 205. Glass shall be tempered 
unless specified laminated by the purchaser. 
22.0 
Exhaust System 
22.1 
The tailpipe shall not exit the right side of the bus body. 
22.2 
The exhaust system shall be insulated in a manner to prevent any damage to any fuel system 
component. 
22.3 
There shall be a switch to manually start the diesel particulate filter regeneration process.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
18 
22.4 
The tailpipe shall be flush with but not extend more than one inch beyond the perimeter of the 
body for side exit or the bumper for rear exit. 
22.5 
Tailpipe shall not exit beneath any fuel filler location or beneath any emergency door or lift door. 
23.0 
Floor Coverings 
23.1 
The floor in the under-seat area, including tops of wheel housings, driver’s compartment, aisle, 
and the kick board shall be covered with fire-resistant rubber floor covering or equivalent that is 
non-skid and wear-resistant. 
23.2 
The floor covering in the aisle shall be fire-resistant rubber or equivalent, non-skid, wear-resistant, 
and ribbed. The minimum overall thickness shall be .1875 inches measured from the tops of the 
ribs. 
23.3 
The floor covering shall be permanently bonded to the floor and must not crack when subjected to 
sudden changes in temperatures. Bonding or adhesive material shall be waterproof and shall be 
of the type recommended by the manufacturer of floor covering material. All seams must be 
sealed with a waterproof sealer. 
23.4 
Cove molding or new and emerging coatings shall be used along the side walls and rear corners. 
All floor seam separations shall be properly bonded or secured. 
23.5 
The entrance step treads, including the edge at floor level, shall be of the same quality as the 
aisle material. Step treads shall have an integral white or yellow nosing of 1 ½ inch or more or 
use diagonal stripes. Treads shall be permanently bonded to the metal steps and sealed to 
prevent water from getting underneath the step tread. 
23.05(a) 
New and emerging coatings may be used in lieu of step treads but shall 
incorporate white or yellow nosing. A sealed and insulated plate shall be provided when 
required to access the fuel tank sending unit. The plate shall not be installed under 
flooring material. Type A buses 14,500 GVWR and under are exempt. 
24.0 
Frame 
24.1 
No holes shall be permitted in the chassis rails except when drilled at the manufacturing plant or 
authorized by the manufacturer. 
24.2 
Any welding to the frame side rails that is necessary by design to strengthen, modify, or alter 
basic vehicle configuration shall be authorized and documented by the manufacturer. 
25.0 
Fuel System 
25.1 
All fuel tank specifications shall conform to FMVSS 301, FMVSS 303, FMVSS 305, National Fire 
Protection Association code 52, and/or National Fire Protection Association Code 58, as 
applicable. 
25.2 
The engine supply line shall not be mounted below the fuel tank. Wiring shall be hidden whenever 
possible. 
25.3 
The fuel fill cap opening in the body skirt shall be equipped with a hinged cover held closed by a 
spring or other conveniently operated. Type A buses under 14,500 GVWR and small-capacity 
vehicles are exempt.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
19 
26.0 
Handrail 
26.1 
For Type A, B, C, and D buses an assist handrail not less than 20 inches in length designed to 
provide maximum loading assistance, shall be provided in an unobstructed location inside the 
service door. 
26.2 
At least one handrail shall be installed inside the service door. The handrail shall be a minimum of 
1-inch in diameter and be constructed from corrosion-resistant material(s). The handrail(s) shall 
assist passengers during entry or exit and shall be designed to prevent entanglement, as 
evidenced by the passing of the NHTSA String and Nut Test. 
26.3 
The handrail may be offered in a color provided by and applied by the manufacturer. 
27.0 
Heating System 
27.1 
All school buses shall be equipped with two or more hot water heaters capable of delivering water 
to the system at a rate of six gallons per minute using an ambient temperature of 0 degrees 
Fahrenheit to +10 degrees Fahrenheit and maintaining passenger compartment temperature of 
50 degrees Fahrenheit. One of the heaters shall be in the rear half of the bus on or behind the 
rear wheel axle line. This standard must be obtained without a secondary heating source. 
27.01(a) 
Lift-equipped buses may place the rear heater under the last row of seats or wall 
mount. The front heater may be wall-mounted. 
27.2 
Buses shall be equipped with front heater(s) and integrated defroster system of capacity to 
provide heat for the front part of the bus (including the driver’s compartment) and to keep the 
windshield area, service door glass, driver’s left glass area, and step well clear of moisture, ice, 
and snow. 
27.3 
Heater cores and fans shall be completely encased but designed to permit servicing heater 
assembly by removing all or part of the case. 
27.4 
Heater hose installation in the engine compartment shall include two shut-off valves shutting off 
coolant completely when necessary. 
27.04(a) 
One shut-off valve mounted between the water pump outlet and heater hose 
connection. 
27.04(b) 
One shut-off valve mounted between the motor block and the return heater hose 
connection. 
27.04(c) 
Heater hoses shall be adequately supported to guard against excessive wear 
due to vibration. Hoses shall not rub against the chassis, body, or other edges. 
27.5 
The body manufacturer shall add the required amount of permanent ethylene glycol base or 
environmentally safe equivalent antifreeze after heaters have been connected to protect the 
cooling system of the bus to -30 degrees Fahrenheit tested at normal engine temperature. 
27.6 
A heater water flow regulating valve shall be installed for convenient operation by the driver.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
20 
28.0 
Identification 
28.1 
School buses shall bear the words “SCHOOL BUS” in black letters at least eight inches high on 
both the front and rear of the body. Lettering shall be placed without impairment of its visibility. All 
lettering shall conform to Standard Alphabets for Highway Signs, Series B 2000. Lettering shall 
have a retro-reflective NSBY material background pursuant to Rule 36.1 of these rules. 
28.2 
School buses shall bear the name of the school district, charter school, and service provider on 
each side of the bus. The lettering must be black, standard, unshaded letters, and at least 5 
inches in height. If there is insufficient space due to the length of the name of the school district, 
charter school or service provider, terms such as community, consolidated, and district may be 
abbreviated. 
28.3 
Small-capacity vehicles shall bear the name of the school district, charter school, and service 
provider plainly visible on each side of the vehicle. 
28.4 
The manufacturer's original rated capacity of the vehicle shall be printed to the left of the service 
door on the lower skirt in two-inch characters. The word “capacity” may be abbreviated. 
(Example: Cap.48) 
28.5 
The numbering of individual buses for identification purposes is permissible. 
28.6 
Lettering and numerals shall be painted or may be pressure-sensitive markings of similar 
performance quality. 
28.7 
“STOP” shall be printed on the rear of the bus in letters at least eight inches high. “ON 
FLASHING RED” shall be printed below “STOP” in letters at least 4 1/2 inches high. An LED 
message panel giving safety messages to alert motorists may be used instead of the above 
lettering. These letters shall be placed in the area(s) visible to the approaching motorist. 
28.8 
The school district, charter school, and service provider logo may be placed above the side 
window drip line or along the side of the bus but shall not interfere with any required lettering. 
28.9 
Only signs and lettering specifically permitted by state law or regulation, and any marking 
necessary for safety and identification shall appear on the outside of the bus. 
28.09(a) 
Advertising, approved by the local Board of Education, charter school’s or service 
provider’s governing board, may appear only on the side(s) of the bus in the following 
areas: 
28.09(a)(1) 
The location and securement of the advertising shall have prior written 
CDE approval. 
28.09(a)(2) 
The signs shall not extend from the body to allow a handhold or present 
a danger to pedestrians. 
28.09(a)(3) 
The signs shall not interfere with the operation of any door, window, 
required lettering, lamps, reflectors, or other devices. 
28.09(a)(4) 
The signs shall not be placed on side emergency door(s). 
28.09(a)(5) 
Advertising signs shall not interfere with retro-reflective tape on the side 
of the bus.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
21 
28.09(a)(6) 
Bumper stickers and/or signage are considered advertising. Consistent 
with Rule 28.09(a)(1) of these rules, advertising shall have prior written CDE 
approval. 
28.10 
The exterior of the battery compartment shall be labeled with the word “Battery”. 
28.11 
Identification of fuel type shall be located outside and adjacent to the fuel filler opening. 
28.12 
Multifunction buses shall bear the words “ACTIVITY BUS” in black letters at least 8 inches high 
on both the front and rear of the body. Lettering shall be placed without impairment of its visibility. 
All lettering shall conform to Standard Alphabets for Highway Signs, Series B 2000. 
29.0 
Insulation 
29.1 
The bus body shall be fully insulated in the roof including roof bows and all body panels. 
Insulation 1-inch minimum thickness shall be fiberglass or equivalent and fire resistant. 
30.0 
Interior 
30.1 
Inside body height shall be 72 inches or more, measured metal to metal at any point on the 
longitudinal center line from front vertical bow to rear vertical bow. Type A school buses of 14,500 
GVWR or less shall have 62 inches or more inside height, measured metal to metal. Neither 
measurement shall include air conditioning units. 
30.2 
The interior of a school transportation vehicle shall be free of all projections likely to cause injury. 
Therefore, the use of low-profile interior cameras is encouraged. 
30.3 
Global Positioning System Tablets 
30.03(a) 
Tablets shall be mounted in a location that will not interfere with the driver's 
vision. 
30.03(b) 
Wiring for the tablet is to be routed to not interfere with controls, vision, or 
become a tripping hazard. Wiring shall be hidden whenever possible. 
30.03(c) 
When the vehicle is placed in gear, the tablet may go black, but it is still permitted 
to give auditory directions. Once the vehicle is placed into “park” the screen may then 
become visible. Districts, charter schools, and service providers may opt to have the 
screen visible while driving to aid substitute and new operators. 
31.0 
Lamps and Signals 
31.1 
All lamps, signals, reflectors and their installation shall conform to the requirements of The 
Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc. (SAE) J2442. No lettering, symbols, or arrows, except 
manufacturer’s markings, shall be on any lens. 
31.2 
Tail and stop (brake) lamps: 
31.02(a) 
The bus shall be equipped with four combination red stop/tail lamps. Two 
combination stop lamps shall have a lens diameter of at least seven- inches or 38.48 
square inches. Two combination tail lamps shall have a lens diameter of at least 4 inches 
or 12 ½ square inches.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
22 
31.02(b) 
If the bus is equipped with a retarder, secondary braking system/or another 
system that supplements the service brake system, the four brake lamps shall be 
illuminated when the braking system or other supplemental system is activated. 
31.3 
Interior lamps: Interior lamps shall be provided which adequately illuminate the aisle. A separate 
lamp shall be provided in the step well. 
31.4 
Back-up lamps: Back-up lamps shall have a lens diameter of at least 7 inches or 38.48 square 
inches, or a 4-inch LED shall be provided. 
31.5 
Turn signal lamps: 
31.05(a) 
The bus shall be equipped with two amber turn signals in front and two amber 
turn signals in the rear. The rear turn signal shall be at least 7 inches or a total of 38.48 
square inches in diameter. 
31.05(b) 
On buses over 30 feet, a minimum of one additional turn signal shall be mounted 
on each side below the window and behind the service door axis plane. 
31.6 
All school buses shall be equipped with an alternating flashing eight-way warning signal lamp 
system 
31.7 
The amber flashing warning signal lamps shall be energized manually by a switch. The flashing 
red warning signal lamp system shall be a sequential mode type. 
31.8 
The flashing warning signal lamp system shall have two pilot or indicator lights; one shall show 
amber light when the amber signal lamps are flashing and the other shall show red light when the 
red signal lamps are flashing. 
31.08(a) 
The areas around the lens of each alternating flashing signal lamp shall be black. 
31.08(b) 
Visors shall be provided and securely mounted to adequately shade and protect 
the dual-lamp assemblies from sunlight above but not to obstruct the rear and side 
effectiveness of the warning lamps. LED warning signal lamps are not required to use 
visors. 
31.9 
Type D rear engine buses shall have two hazard lamps each visible to the rear when the engine 
door is open. The lamps shall be wired to be illuminated when the main hazard lamp circuit is 
energized. 
31.10 
A white flashing strobe light may be installed on the roof of a school bus. An amber lens may be 
used upon approval of a local traffic regulatory authority. The light shall have a single clear lens 
emitting light 360 degrees around its vertical axis and may not extend above the roof more than 
eight inches. A manual switch and a pilot light must be included to indicate when the light is in 
operation. The lamp must not be capable of activating emergency traffic control light switches. 
32.0 
Mirrors 
32.1 
Exterior mirrors shall meet FMVSS 111. 
33.0 
Mounting, Body, and Chassis 
33.1 
Insulation material shall be placed at all attachment points between the body and chassis frame 
on all buses and shall be attached to the chassis frame or body to prevent movement under 
severe operating conditions.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
23 
33.2 
The body front shall be attached and sealed to the chassis cowl to prevent the entry of moisture 
and gases. 
34.0 
Multifunction School Activity Bus 
34.1 
A Multifunction School Activity Bus, pursuant to rule 7.10 of these rules, shall meet the standard 
contained in these Minimum Standards. The Multifunction School Activity Bus shall comply with 
the following: 
34.01(a) 
Color shall not be traditionally National School Bus Glossy Yellow as required by 
Rule14.1 of these rules. 
34.01(b) 
Shall not have the identification of “SCHOOL BUS,” as required by Rule 28.1 of 
these rules. 
34.01(c) 
Shall not have the identification of “STOP ON FLASHING RED,” as required by 
Rule 28.7 of these rules. 
34.01(d) 
Shall not have a school bus eight-way alternating flashing warning signal lamps, 
as required by Rule 31.6 of these rules. 
34.01(e) 
Shall not have a stop signal arm, as required by Rule 42.1 of these rules. 
34.01(f)  
Shall not be required to have the retro-reflective material color, as required by 
Rule 36.3 of these rules. 
34.01(f)(1) 
Exception: A Multifunction School Activity Bus is required to meet the 
requirements of Rule 36.4 of these rules. 
35.0 
Overall Size 
35.1 
The overall length of school buses shall not exceed 40 feet pursuant to Section 42-4- 504, C.R.S. 
35.2 
The overall width of the school bus shall not exceed eight feet six inches (8 ½ feet) pursuant to 
Section 42-4-502, C.R.S. 
36.0 
Retro-Reflective material 
36.1 
Retro-reflective material shall be installed on the bus conforming to the requirements of FMVSS 
131 and 217. 
36.2 
Rear of bus body: strips of between 1-inch and 2-inch retro-reflective NSBY material shall be 
applied horizontally above the rear windows and above the rear bumper, extending from the rear 
emergency exit perimeter marking outward to the left and right rear corners of the bus, with 
vertical strips applied at the corners connecting the horizontal strips. 
36.3 
“School Bus” signs: shall be marked with retro-reflective NSBY material comprising background 
for the lettering of the front and/or rear “School Bus” signs. 
36.4 
Sides of the multifunction bus body shall be marked with white retro-reflective material at least 1 
¾ inches in width, extending the length of the bus body and located (vertically) as close as 
practicable to the floor line.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
24 
36.5 
Sides of the school bus body: shall be marked with retro-reflective NSBY material at least 1 ¾ 
inches in width, extending the length of the bus body and located (vertically) as close as practical 
to the floor line 
37.0 
Rub Rails 
37.1 
There shall be one rub rail located on each side of the bus at approximately seat level which shall 
extend from the rear side of the service door completely around the bus body (except for 
emergency and/or access door) to the point of curvature near outside cowl on the left side. 
37.2 
There shall be one rub rail located at approximately the floor line which shall cover the same 
longitudinal areas as the upper rub rail, except at the wheel housing, and shall extend at least to 
the radii of the right and left rear corners 
37.3 
There shall be one rub rail located on each side of the bus at the bottom of the side skirts, or a 
side skirt stiffener of equivalent strength 
37.4 
Rub rails shall be attached at each body post and all other upright structural members. 
37.5 
Rub rails shall be four inches or more in width, 16-gauge steel, or equivalent strength, 
constructed in corrugated or ribbed fashion, and shall be self-draining. 
37.6 
Rub rails shall be applied to the outside of the body panels. Pressed-in or snap-on rub rails do not 
satisfy this requirement. 
38.0 
Seats/Restraining Barriers 
38.1 
Type A school buses shall be equipped with restraining barriers conforming to FMVSS 222. 
38.2 
No bus shall be equipped with any type of seats that are not secured to the floor by the 
manufacturer. 
38.3 
The forward-most pupil seat on the right side of the bus shall be located not to interfere with the 
driver's vision. The seat shall not be farther forward than the barrier behind the driver or the rear 
of the driver's seat when adjusted to its rear-most position. 
38.4 
Use of a flip seat at any side emergency door location and conformance with FMVSS 222, 
including required aisle width to the side door, is acceptable. Any flip seat shall be free of sharp 
projections on the underside of the seat bottom. The underside of the flip- up seat bottoms shall 
be padded or contoured to reduce the possibility of snagged clothing or injury during use. Flip 
seats shall be constructed to prevent passenger limbs from becoming entrapped between the 
seat back and the seat cushion when in the upright position. The seat cushion shall be designed 
to rise to a vertical position automatically when not occupied. 
38.5 
School bus student seats and seat spacing shall meet FMVSS 222. 
38.6 
School bus seat materials shall meet FMVSS 302. 
38.7 
Integrated child seats shall not be installed at an emergency exit. 
38.8 
Each individual wheelchair securement system shall consist of materials from one brand only. 
39.0 
Specially Equipped Buses 
39.1 
Aisles

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
25 
39.01(a) 
All school buses equipped with a power lift shall provide a minimum 30-inch 
pathway leading from any wheelchair position to at least one 30-inch-wide emergency 
exit door. 
39.2 
Identification 
39.02(a) 
Specially equipped buses shall display the International Symbol of Accessibility 
on all four sides of the bus. 
39.02(a)(1) 
Such emblems shall be white on a blue or black background and shall 
not exceed 12 inches square in size. 
39.02(b)(2) 
Such emblems shall be of high-intensity retroreflective material meeting 
the requirements of the Federal Highway Administration’s Standard 
Specifications for the Construction of Roads and Bridges on Federal Highway 
Projects, FP- 24. 
39.3 
Lighting 
39.03(a) 
Doorways in which lifts are installed shall be equipped with a special interior light 
that is located above the lift, and that provides a minimum of two-foot candles of 
illumination measured on the floor of the bus immediately adjacent to the lift during lift 
operations. 
39.4 
Power Lifts and Ramps 
39.04(a) 
The power lift shall be located on the right side of the bus body. 
39.04(b) 
Vehicle Lift and installation 
39.04(b)(1) 
Vehicle lifts and installations shall comply with the requirements set forth 
in 49 C.F.R., 571.403 and 49 C.F.R., 571.404. 
39.04(b)(2) 
The lifting mechanism(s) and platform shall be capable of operating 
effectively with a wheelchair and occupant mass of at least 600 pounds per 49 
C.F.R., 38.23 and 38.159. 
39.04(c) 
A ramp device may be used in lieu of a mechanic lift if the ramp meets all of the 
requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) as found in 36 C.F.R., 
1192.83. 
39.04(c)(1) 
The floor of the ramp shall be covered with non-skid material. 
39.04(c)(2) 
The ramp shall be of weight and equipped with a handle or handles to 
permit one person to put the ramp in place and return it to the storage location. 
39.04(c)(3) 
The ramp shall be equipped with a protective flange on each longitudinal 
side to keep the wheelchair on the ramp. 
39.5 
Special Service Entrance 
39.05(a) 
Power lift-equipped bodies shall have a special service entrance to 
accommodate the power lift.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
26 
39.05(b) 
The special service entrance and door shall be located on the right side of the 
bus and shall be designed so as not to obstruct the regular service entrance. 
39.05(c) 
The opening may extend below the floor through the bottom of the body skirt. If 
such an opening is used, reinforcements shall be installed at the front and rear of the 
floor opening to support the floor and give the same strength as other floor openings. 
39.05(d) 
Drip molding shall be installed above the special service entrance to effectively 
divert water from the entrance. 
39.05(e) 
Door posts and headers at the special service entrance shall be reinforced 
sufficiently to provide support and strength equivalent to the areas of the side of the bus 
not used for the special service entrance. 
39.6 
Special Service Entrance Doors 
39.06(a) 
A single door or double door may be used for the special service entrance. 
39.06(b) 
A single door shall be hinged to the forward side of the entrance unless this 
would obstruct the regular service entrance. If the door is hinged to the rearward side of 
the doorway, the door shall utilize a safety mechanism that will prevent the door from 
swinging open should the primary door latch fail. 
39.06(c) 
If double doors are used, the system shall be designed to prevent the door(s) 
from being blown open by the aerodynamic forces created by the forward motion of the 
bus and/or shall incorporate a safety mechanism to provide secondary protection should 
the primary latching mechanism(s) fail. 
39.06(d) 
All doors shall have a positive fastening mechanism to hold the door(s) in the 
“open” position when the special service entrance is in use per 21.03(a) of these rules. 
39.06(e) 
All doors shall be weather-sealed, per 21.03(c) of these rules. 
39.06(f)  
When manually operated dual doors are provided, the rear door shall have at 
least a one-point fastening mechanism to the header, and the forward- mounted door 
shall have at least three one-point fastening mechanisms per 21.03(a) of these rules. 
39.06(f)(1) 
One fastening mechanism shall be to the header, one to the floor line of 
the body, and the other shall be into the rear door. 
39.06(g) 
The door and hinge mechanism shall have strength that is greater than, or 
equivalent to, the strength of the emergency exit door. 
39.06(h) 
Door materials, panels, and structural components shall have strength equivalent 
to conventional service and emergency exit doors. 
39.06(h)(1) 
Color, Rub rail extensions, lettering, and other exterior features shall 
match adjacent sections of the body. 
39.06(i)  
Each door shall have windows set in a waterproof manner that are visually 
similar in size and location to adjacent non-door windows per 21.03(e) of these rules. 
39.06(i)(1) 
Glazing shall be of the same type and tinting (if applicable) as standard 
fixed glass in other body locations per 21.03(f) of these rules,

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
27 
39.06(j)  
Door(s) shall be equipped with a device that will actuate an audible or visible 
signal located in the driver’s compartment when the door(s) is not securely closed, and 
the ignition is in the “on” position. 
39.06(k) 
A switch shall be installed so that the lift mechanism will not operate when the lift 
platform door(s) is closed. 
39.06(l)  
Special service doors shall be equipped with padding at least three inches wide 
and one-inch thick at the top edge of the door opening and shall extend the full width of 
the door opening. 
39.7 
Support Equipment and Accessories (New Information) 
39.07(a) 
 If transporting oxygen that is not in use, the oxygen shall be secured. 
Consideration should be given to utilizing a securement device meeting SAE J3043, if 
applicable. 
39.8 
Wheelchair Tie-Down and Occupant Restraint System (WTORS) 
39.08(a) 
Each individual wheelchair securement system shall consist of materials from 
one brand or manufacturer only. 
39.08(b) 
Each wheelchair tie-down and occupant restraint system shall be designed, 
installed, and operated with forward-facing, wheelchair-seated passengers. 
39.08(b)(1) 
All wheelchair tie-down and occupant restraint systems shall comply with 
all applicable requirements of FMVSS 222, FMVSS 302, and SAE J2249. 
39.08(c) 
Wheelchair securement positions shall be located so that wheelchairs and their 
occupants do not block access to the lift door. 
39.08(d) 
When the wheelchair tie-down occupant restraint system (WTORS) is not in use, 
the WTORS shall be secured. A storage device should be used to keep the WTORS 
clean, secure within the passenger compartment, and readily accessible. 
39.08(e) 
Each wheelchair position in a specially equipped school bus shall have a 
minimum clear floor area of 30 inches laterally by 48 inches longitudinally. Additional floor 
area may be required for some wheelchairs per 49 C.F.R., 38.23 and 38.159. 
39.08(f)  
Occupant Restraint System: If the upper torso belt anchorage is higher than 44 
inches measured from the vehicle floor, an adjustment device shall be supplied as part of 
the occupant restraint system. 
40.0 
Steering Gear Assembly 
40.1 
All school bus chassis, and all passenger capacities, shall be equipped with heavy-duty, truck-
type integral power steering. Power steering components shall be compatible with GVW. 
40.2 
No changes shall be made to the steering apparatus that are not authorized in writing by the 
manufacturer. 
40.3 
There shall be a clearance of at least two inches between the steering wheel and any other 
surface or control.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
28 
41.0 
Steps 
41.1 
The first service doorstep shall be not less than ten inches from the ground while the vehicle is in 
motion and not more than 16 inches from the ground when measured from the top surface of the 
step to the ground. An auxiliary step may be provided to compensate for the increase in ground-
to-first step clearance. The auxiliary step is not required to be enclosed. 
41.2 
Step risers shall not exceed a height of 10 inches. When plywood is used on the top step, the 
riser height may be increased by the thickness of the wood. 
41.3 
The surface of the steps shall be of non-skid material. 
42.0 
Stop Signal Arm 
42.1 
The stop signal arm shall meet FMVSS 131. The stop signal arm may extend up to but shall not 
exceed 6 1/2 feet in length from the side of the bus. 
42.2 
Rubber spacers shall be installed on either the side of the bus or the stop arm to prevent the sign 
from making abrasive contact with the side of the bus. 
42.3 
The wind guard shall be provided to keep the sign in the retracted position. 
43.0 
Storage Compartment 
43.1 
A metal container of adequate strength and capacity for the storage of tire chains, tow chains, 
and such tools as may be necessary for minor emergency repairs while the bus is en route may 
be provided. The storage container may be located either inside or outside the passenger 
compartment. If inside, the storage compartment shall be securely fastened to prevent the 
contents from spilling and shall have a latched or secured cover other than a seat cushion. 
44.0 
Sun Visor 
44.1 
An interior, adjustable, sun visor shall be installed not less than six inches wide and 30 inches 
long. Type A school buses 14,500 GVWR or less shall have a sun visor according to the 
manufacturer's standard size. 
45.0 
Tires and Rims 
45.1 
Minimum tire and rim sizes for vehicles with a 10,000 GVWR or greater, shall be in accordance 
with FMVSS 120. 
45.2 
Type B, C, and D school buses shall have dual rear tires. 
45.3 
All wheels shall be one-piece disc type. 
46.0 
Tow Hooks 
46.1 
Two heavy-duty tow hooks/loops shall be factory installed on the front of Type C and D buses. 
46.2 
Two heavy-duty tow hooks/loops shall be factory installed on the rear of school buses. 
46.3 
Hooks/loops shall not extend beyond the front or rear bumper of any school bus.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
29 
47.0 
Undercoating 
47.1 
The entire underside of the bus body, including floor sections, cross members, and below-floor 
line side panels, shall be coated with rust-proofing material. 
47.2 
The undercoating material shall be applied with a suitable airless or conventional spray 
equipment as per manufacturer-recommended film thickness and shall show no evidence of voids 
in the cured film. 
47.3 
The undercoating materials shall not cover any exhaust components of the chassis. 
48.0 
Ventilation 
48.1 
School transportation vehicles more than 20 feet in length shall be equipped with a multi-speed 
powered exhaust roof ventilator or powered vent fan in the roof hatch, mounted in the rear half of 
the bus. 
49.0 
Windshield Wipers and Washers 
49.1 
The wipers shall be operated by one or more air or electric motors. If one motor is used, the wiper 
shall work in tandem to give a full sweep of the windshield. 
49.2 
All wiper controls shall be located within easy reach of the driver and designated to move blades 
from the driver's direct view when in the stop position. 
49.3 
The system reservoir capacity shall be a minimum of one gallon. 
50.0 
Wiring 
50.1 
All wiring shall conform to the requirements of the Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc. (SAE) 
J2202. 
50.01(a) 
An appropriate identifying diagram (color plus a name or number code) for all 
chassis electrical circuits shall be provided to the body manufacturer for distribution to the 
end user. 
50.01(b) 
A body wiring diagram, sized to be easily read, shall be furnished with each bus 
body or affixed to an area convenient to the electrical accessory control panel. 
50.01(c) 
Each wire passing through a metal opening shall be protected by a grommet. 
51.0 
Incorporation by reference 
51.1 
The foregoing rules incorporate by reference the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards 
(FMVSS), 49 C.F.R., Part 571 (as codified as of May 11th, 2023, unless an earlier version is 
applicable). They also incorporate by reference ADA regulations in 48 C.F.R., Part 38 and in 36 
C.F.R. § 1192.83, as codified on the effective date of these rules. The foregoing rules do not 
incorporate by reference any later amendment or editions to the Federal Motor Vehicle Safety 
Standards or to the cited ADA regulations. The Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards and the 
cited ADA regulations are available at https://www.ecfr.gov/. They are also available for public 
inspection during regular business hours from the Colorado Department of Education, 201. Colfax 
Ave., Denver, Colorado 80203

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-25 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
30 
51.2 
The foregoing rules also incorporate by reference (1) certain standards promulgated by the 
Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc. (“SAE”), as published at https://www.sae.org/standards/; 
(2) codes promulgated by the National Fire Protection Association and available at 
https://www.nfpa.org/for-professionals/codes-and- standards/list-of-codes-and-standards; and (3) 
the Standard Specifications for the Construction of Roads and Bridges on Federal Highway 
Projects, available at https://highways.dot.gov/federal-lands/specs; and (4) the Standard 
Alphabets for Highway Signs from the Federal Highway Administration’s Manual on Uniform 
Traffic Control Devices, available at 
https://mutcd.fhwa.dot.gov/knowledge/hwy_sign_calculator/index.cfm. These standards are 
incorporated as they stood on May 30, 2024. The foregoing rules do not incorporate by reference 
any later amendment or editions to these standards. The incorporated standards are available at 
the foregoing websites and are available for public inspection during regular business hours from 
the Colorado Department of Education, 201 E. Colfax Ave., Denver, Colorado 80203. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 07/01/2007. 
Entire rule eff. 04/30/2015. 
Entire rule eff. 08/14/2023. 
Entire rule eff. 10/30/2024.
