---
id: "1_CCR_301-81"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1 CCR 301-81"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=11807&fileName=1%20CCR%20301-81&type=pdf"
---

#### 1_CCR_301-81. 1 CCR 301-81

1 
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
Colorado State Board of Education 
RULES GOVERNING STANDARDS FOR INDIVIDUAL CAREER AND ACADEMIC PLANS 
1 CCR 301-81 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Authority: Article IX, Section 1, Colorado Constitution. The statutory basis for these rules is found in 
section 22- 2-106(1)(a), C.R.S., State Board Duties; section 22-2-107(1)(c), C.R.S., State Board Powers; 
section 22-2-136, C.R.S., Additional duty – state board – individual career and academic plans; 22-30.5- 
117, Charter Schools – basic skills placement; section 22- 30.5-525, C.R.S., Institute Charter Schools – 
Individual career and academic plans; and sections 22-32-109(1)(oo)(I) and 22-32-109.5. C.R.S., Board 
of Education – specific duties. 
1.00 
Statement of Basis and Purpose. 
Pursuant to 22-2-136(1), C.R.S., the State Board of Education is required to promulgate rules to establish 
standards for Individual Career and Academic Plans (“ICAP”) for all students enrolled in public schools in 
the state. The intent of this provision in the legislation is to ultimately decrease dropout rates and increase 
graduation rates by assisting students in developing and maintaining a personalized postsecondary 
career and educational plan that ensures readiness for postsecondary and workforce success and aligns 
to requirements set forth in section 22-7-1001 et seq. C.R.S. and section 22-11-101, et seq. C.R.S. 
Pursuant to section 22-2- 136(1). C.R.S., an ICAP shall be designed to assist a student and their parent 
or legal guardian in exploring the postsecondary career and educational opportunities available to the 
student, aligning course work and curriculum, applying to postsecondary education institutions, securing 
financial aid, and ultimately entering the workforce. 
2.0 
Definitions. 
2.1 
Approved Postsecondary Service Providers: Representatives of pre-collegiate service-providing 
programs who support middle and high school students’ postsecondary objectives and planning 
and who have a formal service agreement with the schools they serve. 
2.2 
Contextual and Service Learning: Activities performed by the student that establish connections 
between school-based instruction and the world of work, careers, and learning that occurs 
beyond the school itself (i.e., Career and Technical Education, expeditionary learning, 
experiential education, internship or externships, and apprenticeships). 
2.3 
Department: The Department of Education created pursuant to section 24-1-115(1), C.R.S. 
2.4 
Individual Career and Academic Plan (ICAP): An individualized plan, developed by the student 
and the student’s parent or legal guardian, in collaboration with their school counselors, school 
administrators, school personnel and/or Approved Postsecondary Service Providers that is used 
to help establish personalized academic and career goals, explore postsecondary career and 
educational opportunities, align course work and curriculum, apply to postsecondary institutions, 
secure financial aid and ultimately enter the workforce school. 
2.5 
Institute Charter School: A charter school authorized pursuant to section 22-30.5-501, C.R.S. 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-81 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
2 
2.6 
Portfolio: A digital or paper record that includes, at minimum, the components required by these 
rules. The Portfolio may include student-created information and/or reflections (e.g., websites, 
documents, surveys) as well as records created by the district or school. The Portfolio may be 
maintained in different systems by the district or school. For example, some components of the 
Portfolio may be maintained in the student record system and other components may live in an 
electronic or paper file. All components of the Portfolio should be accessible as defined in rule 
3.02 of these rules. The district or school should communicate to students and 
parent(s)/guardian(s) in writing how the information contained in the ICAP Portfolio can be 
accessed. 
2.7 
Postsecondary and Workforce Readiness (PWR): Colorado high school graduates demonstrate 
the knowledge and skills (competencies) needed to succeed in postsecondary settings and to 
advance in career pathways as lifelong learners and contributing citizens. 
2.8 
Progress in Visual Arts and Performing Arts Courses: Evidence of having participated in and 
grades earned in Visual Arts and Performing Arts Courses as defined in 22-1-104.5 (1)(a) - (c), 
C.R.S. 
2.9 
State Board: The State Board of Education created pursuant to Section 1, Article IX of the State 
Constitution. 
3.0 
Standards for Individual Career and Academic Plans. 
3.1 
Each ICAP shall include a career planning, guidance and tracking component and portfolio that 
reflects, at a minimum, standards as required, but not limited to section 22-2-136, C.R.S. 
3.01(1) Documentation of the student’s efforts in exploring careers, including: a written 
postsecondary and workforce goal for the student; yearly benchmarks for reaching that 
goal; interest surveys that the student completes; and anticipated postsecondary studies; 
3.01(2) The student’s academic progress including the courses taken, any remediation or credit 
recovery and any concurrent enrollment credits earned; 
3.01(3) The student’s progress in visual arts and performing arts courses; 
3.01(4) An intentional sequence of courses reflecting progress toward accomplishment of the 
student’s postsecondary and workforce objectives; 
3.01(5) Relevant assessment scores; including basic skills placement or assessment tests. For 
schools districts and charter schools that choose to administer the basic skills placement 
or assessment tests, the student’s scores on the basic skills placement or assessment 
tests administered pursuant to section 22-30.5-117, 22-30.5-526 or 22-32- 109.5(4), 
C.R.S., any intervention plan created for the student and the student’s progress in 
meeting the intervention plan; 
3.01(6) The student’s plans for and experiences in Contextual and Service Learning, if 
applicable; 
3.01(7) A record of the student’s college applications and resume, or alternative applications as 
they are prepared and submitted; 
3.01(8) The student’s postsecondary studies as the student progresses through high school; 
3.01(9) The student’s progress toward securing scholarships, work-study, student loans and 
grants;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-81 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
3 
3.01(10) 
Other data reflecting student progress toward postsecondary and workforce 
readiness, including the student’s understanding of the financial impact of postsecondary 
education; 
3.01(11) 
The student’s scores on basic skills or assessment tests and based on an 
analysis of the scores (if a district chooses to administer), the student’s level of PWR at 
the time of the test. If a student’s scores indicate that he or she is at risk of being unable 
to demonstrate readiness prior to or upon high school graduation, school personnel shall 
work with the student and the student’s parent or legal guardian to create an intervention 
plan that identifies the necessary courses and education support services that the 
student requires to achieve readiness prior to or upon high school graduation to be 
prepared to continue into a postsecondary education option. 
3.01(12) 
Assisting the student and the student’s parent or legal guardian in exploring 
apprenticeship programs registered through the United States Department of Labor’s 
Office of Apprenticeship or a state apprenticeship agency recognized by that office. 
3.2 
Each ICAP shall be accessible to educators, students, parents, legal guardians, and Approved 
Postsecondary Service Providers; and may be shared in compliance with the “Federal Family 
Education Rights and Privacy Act of 1974”; and the student data privacy law section 22-16-101 et 
seq., C.R.S. 
3.02(1) Each ICAP portfolio shall be transferable in print and/or electronic form for internal and 
external district use so that when a student transfers from one school or district to 
another, the ICAP follows the student. 
3.3 
Each public school, in assisting students and parents in creating and maintaining ICAPs shall 
comply with the requirements of the Federal “Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974”, 
20 U.S.C. 1232g. 
3.4 
As part of the process of establishing the ICAP, the student and the student’s parents must be 
made aware of the importance of completing the free application for federal student aid or the 
Colorado application for state financial aid, or successor forms for accessing federal and state 
financial aid, and be provided help in completing the forms, if requested. 
3.5 
The ICAP process shall begin no later than ninth grade, but can begin earlier if the district or 
institute charter school chooses to do so. 
3.6 
The documentation in the Portfolio can be used to support funding for a student’s work-based 
learning course, pursuant to 1 CCR 301-39. For purposes of supporting funding, the 
documentation in the Portfolio should include, at minimum, the student’s name, the term for which 
it applied (i.e., Fall 2024), the date the documentation was created/updated, the work-based 
learning the student pursued; and a description of how the work-based learning course connected 
to the student’s postsecondary workforce or education goals. 
3.7 
Districts shall comply with all requirements set forth in sections 22-32-109(1)(oo)(I) and 22-32- 
109.5(4)(b), C.R.S. 
3.8 
Institute charter schools shall comply with all requirements in sections 22-30.5-117(2) and 22-
30.5- 525, C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-81 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
4 
4.0 
Model Approach to Implementing State Board ICAP Standards 
4.1 
4.1 
The State Board directs the Department to create a model approach to implementing the 
State Board’s ICAP Standards. A district or institute charter school can elect to follow the model 
approach developed by the Department or it can develop its own approach to compliance with the 
standards in these rules and other expectations set forth in state statutes. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 03/10/2010. 
Entire rule eff. 06/30/2011. 
Entire rule eff. 04/15/2013. 
Entire rule eff. 03/02/2018. 
Entire rule eff. 01/14/2025.
