---
id: "1_CCR_301-45"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1 CCR 301-45"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12546&fileName=1%20CCR%20301-45&type=pdf"
---

#### 1_CCR_301-45. 1 CCR 301-45

1 
Department of Education 
Colorado State Board of Education 
RULES FOR THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE PROTECTION OF STUDENTS FROM 
RESTRAINT AND SECLUSION ACT 
1 CCR 301-45 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
1.00 STATEMENT OF BASIS AND PURPOSE 
1.00(1) 
These Rules were developed in accordance with C.R.S. 26-20-101, et 
seq. Specific statutory authority for the development of these Rules comes from 
C.R.S. 26-20-108. These Rules are provided pursuant to the terms of the 
“Protection of Individuals from Restraint and Seclusion Act”. These Rules outline 
the procedures to be followed in the administration of restraint and seclusion, 
staff training, documentation requirements, and the review of the use of restraint 
and seclusion. 
1.00(2) 
The statutory authority for the 2009 amendments to these Rules is found 
in 26-20-108, C.R.S. The purpose of these amendments is to better align these 
Rules to the Protection of Persons from Restraint Act; add clarifying language; 
and reorganize these Rules to provide enhanced clarification for implementation. 
1.00(3) 
The purpose of the 2017 amendments is to conform to the changes made 
in HB 17-1276 to update definitions, generally prohibit the use of prone holds and 
restraints, and outline the process for complaints concerning the use of restraint 
or seclusion. 
1.00(4) 
The purpose of the 2023 amendments is to conform to changes made by 
HB 22-1376 regarding increased restrictions on the use of restraints and 
seclusion on students and new reporting requirements. 
1.00(5) 
The purpose of the 2025 amendments is to conform to changes made by 
HB 25-1248, which removed public schools from the “Protection of Individuals 
from Restraint and Seclusion Act” and created the “Protection of Students from 
Restraint and Seclusion Act” that is specific to local education providers. 
2.0 
DEFINITIONS 
2.00(1) 
“Deadly Weapon” is defined in Section 18-1-901(3)(e)(e) and means a 
firearm, whether loaded or unloaded; a knife, bludgeon, or any other weapon, 
device, instrument, material, or substance, whether animate or inanimate, that, in 
the manner it is used or intended to be used, is capable of producing death or 
serious bodily injury. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-45 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
2 
2.00(2) 
“Emergency” means a serious, probable, imminent threat of bodily harm to 
self or others when there is the present ability to effect such bodily harm. 
2.00(3) 
“IEP Team” has the same meaning as described in Section 22-20-108, 
C.R.S. 
2.00(4) 
“Individualized Education Program” or “IEP” has the same meaning as set 
forth in Section 22-20-103, C.R.S. 
2.00(5) 
“Local Education Provider” means a school district, a charter school 
authorized by a school district pursuant to Article 30 of Title 22, C.R.S., a charter 
school authorized by the state Charter School Institute pursuant to Article 30.5 of 
Title 22, C.R.S., or a Board of Cooperative Services (BOCES) created and 
operating pursuant to Article 5 of Title 22, C.R.S. that operates one or more 
public schools. 
2.00(6) 
“Parent” means 
2.00(6)(a) 
A biological or adoptive parent of a child; 
2.00(6)(b) 
A foster parent, unless state law, regulations, or contractual 
obligations with a state or local entity prohibit a foster parent from acting 
as a parent; 
2.00(6)(c) 
A guardian generally authorized to act as the child’s parent or 
authorized to make educational decisions for the child (but not the State if 
the child is a ward of the State); 
2.00(6)(d) 
An individual acting in the place of a biological or adoptive parent 
(including a grandparent, step-parent, or other relative) with whom the 
child lives, or an individual who is legally responsible for the child’s 
welfare; 
2.00(6)(e) 
An educational surrogate parent who has been assigned in 
accordance with 1 C.C.R. 301-8 6.02(8); 
2.00(6)(f) 
Except as provided in section (6)(b) of this Rule 2.00(6), the 
biological or adoptive parent, when attempting to act as the parent under 
these Rules and when more than one party is qualified under Section (6) 
of this Rule 2.00 to act as a parent, must be presumed to be the parent for 
the purposes of this Section unless the biological or adoptive parent does 
not have legal authority to make educational decisions for the child. 
2.00(6)(g) 
If a judicial decree or order identifies a specific person or persons 
under Sections 6(a) through (d) of this rule to act as the “parent” of a child 
or to make educational decisions on behalf of a child, then such 
persons(s) shall be determined to be the “parent” for the purposes of this 
Section 2.00(6).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-45 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
3 
2.00(7) 
“Restraint” means a method or device that is used to limit a student’s 
voluntary freedom of movement. “Restraint” includes seclusion, chemical 
restraint, mechanical restraint, and physical restraint. 
2.00(7)(a) 
“Chemical Restraint” means the involuntary administration of 
medication to a student for the purpose of restraining the student. 
“Chemical Restraint” does not include: 
2.00(7)(a)(i) Administering prescription medication that is regularly 
administered to the student for medical treatment other than to 
restrain the student’s freedom of movement (e.g., asthma 
corticosteroid, mood disorder medication, insulin, or glucagon); or 
2.00(7)(a)(ii) Administering medication for voluntary or life-saving medical 
procedures, including epinephrine or diazepam. 
2.00(7)(b) 
“Mechanical Restraint” means a physical device used to restrict a 
student’s voluntary freedom of movement or the movement or normal 
function of a portion of their body. “Mechanical Restraint” does not include: 
2.00(7)(b)(i) A device that is recommended for the student by a 
physician, occupational therapist, or physical therapist; is agreed to 
for use by the student’s parent (if the student does not have an IEP 
or 504 Team), by the student’s IEP Team, or by the student’s 
Section 504 Team; and is used in accordance with the student’s 
Individualized Education Program (IEP) or Section 504 Plan; 
2.00(7)(b)(ii) A protective device that is used to prevent a student from 
self-harm, is agreed to for use by the student’s parent (if the 
student does not have an IEP or 504 Team), by the student’s IEP 
Team, or by the student’s Section 504 Team, and is used in 
accordance with the student’s IEP or Section 504 Plan. The 
protective device may include a helmet or mitts; 
2.00(7)(b)(iii) An adaptive device that is used to facilitate instruction or 
therapy for the student that is recommended for the student by a 
physician, occupational therapist, or physical therapist; is agreed to 
for use by the student, by the student’s IEP Team or Section 504 
Team; and is used in accordance with the student’s IEP or Section 
504 Plan; or 
2.00(7)(b)(iv) A positioning or securing device that is used to facilitate the 
student’s medical treatment that is recommended for the student by 
a physician, occupational therapist, or physical therapist; is agreed 
to for use by the student, by the student’s IEP Team or Section 504 
Team, and is used in accordance with the student’s IEP or Section 
504 Plan.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-45 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
4 
2.00(7)(c) 
For purposes of these rules, a “Physical Restraint” means the use 
of bodily, physical force to limit a student’s voluntary freedom of 
movement for more than one minute. “Physical Restraint” does not 
include: 
2.00(7)(c)(i) A physical intervention administered on a student that lasts 
one minute or less for the protection of a student, others, or 
property; 
2.00(7)(c)(ii) The holding of a student by an adult for the purpose of 
calming or comforting the student; 
2.00(7)(c)(iii) Minimal physical contact for the purpose of safely escorting 
a student from one place to another; or 
2.00(7)(c)(iv) Minimal physical contact for the purpose of assisting a 
student with a task or response. 
2.00(7)(d) 
“Prone Restraint” means a restraint in which the student who is 
being restrained is secured in a face-down position. 
2.00(8) 
“Seclusion” is a form of restraint and means: 
• 
the placement of a student 
• 
alone in a room or area 
• 
from which egress is prevented. 
2.00(8)(a) 
“Seclusion” does not mean: 
2.00(8)(a)(i) Placement of a student in residential services in the 
student’s room for the night; or 
2.00(8)(a)(ii) A “Time-out,” which is the removal of a student from a 
potentially rewarding situation or from a situation that would 
otherwise produce negative reinforcement. A Time-out does not 
prevent a student’s egress. 
2.00(9) 
“Section 504 Plan” has the same meaning as set forth in Section 22-20-
123(2), C.R.S. 
2.00(10) 
“Section 504 Team” has the same meaning as set forth in Section 22-20-
123(2), C.R.S. 
2.00(11) 
“Armed” is defined as lawfully carrying a firearm as part of the officer’s job 
duties.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-45 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
5 
3.0 
RESTRAINT PROHIBITED - EXCEPTIONS 
3.00(1) 
Except as provided in these rules, the use of a restraint on a student of a 
local education provider is prohibited when the student is on the property of the 
local education provider or is participating in an off-campus activity or event 
sponsored by the local education provider. 
3.00(2) 
The prohibition on the use of restraint in Rule 3.00(1) does not apply to: 
3.00(2)(a) 
The use of mechanical, physical, or prone restraints on a student 
enrolled in a local education provider who openly displays a deadly 
weapon. 
3.00(2)(b) 
The use of mechanical or prone restraints by an armed security 
officer or a certified peace officer working in a local education provider’s 
facilities when the conditions of rule 3.00(2)(d) are met and the officer: 
3.00(2)(b)(i) Has received documented training in defensive tactics 
utilizing handcuffing procedures; 
3.00(2)(b)(ii) Has received documented training in restraint tactics utilizing 
prone restraint; and 
3.00(2)(b)(iii) Has made a referral to a law enforcement agency and is 
making an arrest or is referring to law enforcement to make an 
arrest. 
3.00(2)(c) 
The use of mechanical, physical, or prone restraints by a school 
resource officer or a law enforcement officer acting in the officer’s official 
capacity on the local education provider’s property, in a local education 
provider’s vehicle, or at an activity or event sponsored by the local 
education provider if there is a danger to the student or others or during a 
custodial arrest that requires transport. 
3.00(2)(d) 
The use of physical restraint or seclusion in an emergency: 
3.00(2)(d)(i) after the failure of less restrictive alternatives, or 
3.00(2)(d)(ii) after the determination that less restrictive alternatives would 
be inappropriate or ineffective during the emergency. 
3.00(3) 
Nothing in these rules prohibits transportation provided by the local 
education provider from having seat belts, harnesses, car seats, or other devices 
for passenger safety.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-45 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
6 
4.0 
SECLUSION REQUIREMENTS 
4.00(1) 
If a local education provider uses a room for seclusion as a type of 
restraint, there must be at least one window to monitor the student when the door 
is closed. 
4.00(1)(a) 
If a window is not feasible, monitoring must be with a video camera. 
4.00(2) 
A room used for seclusion must be in a safe space free of injurious items. 
4.00(2)(a) 
The room must not be used by school staff for storage, custodial 
purposes, or office space. 
4.00(3) 
A student placed in seclusion must be continually monitored and provided 
relief periods from seclusion for reasonable access to toilet facilities. 
5.0 
LIMITATIONS AND DUTIES ON THE USE OF RESTRAINTS 
5.00(1) 
A local education provider that, or a local education provider’s employee 
or agent who, uses restraint shall use the restraint: 
5.00(1)(a) 
Only for the purpose of preventing the continuation or renewal of 
the appropriate circumstances described in Rule 3.00(2); 
5.00(1)(b) 
Only for the period of time necessary to accomplish its purpose; 
and 
5.00(1)(c) 
In the case of physical restraint, only if no more force than is 
necessary to limit the individual’s freedom of movement is used. 
5.00(2) 
If property damage may be involved, a local education provider may only 
use restraint when: 
5.00(2)(a) 
The destruction of property would result in a serious, probable, 
imminent threat of bodily harm to self or others; and 
5.00(2)(b) 
There is the present ability to effect such bodily harm. 
5.00(3) 
A local education provider, or local education provider’s employee or 
agent, must not use restraint as a: 
5.00(3)(a) 
Form of punishment or disciplinary sanction; 
5.00(3)(b) 
Form of treatment as part of a treatment plan or as a way to modify 
behavior as part of a behavior modification plan; or 
5.00(3)(c) 
Form of retaliation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-45 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
7 
5.00(4) 
A local education provider that, or a local education provider’s employee 
or agent who, uses a physical restraint must ensure that: 
5.00(4)(a) 
A physical restraint does not place excess pressure on the 
student’s chest or back or inhibit or impede the student’s ability to breathe; 
and 
5.00(4)(b) 
During the physical restraint of a student, the student’s breathing is 
not compromised; and 
5.00(4)(c) 
The student is released from the restraint within fifteen minutes 
after the initiation of the restraint, except when it would be unsafe to do so. 
6.0 
TRAINING 
6.00(1) 
A local education provider that uses restraint must ensure that all 
employees and agents who are involved in using restraint in its facilities or 
programs are trained. Training must include: 
6.00(1)(a) 
The appropriate use of restraint, which includes; 
6.00(1)(a)(i) A continuum of prevention techniques; 
6.00(1)(a)(ii) Environmental management; 
6.00(1)(a)(iii) A continuum of de-escalation techniques; 
6.00(1)(a)(iv) An understanding of the impact of adverse childhood events 
or trauma on students and their behavior and how to respond 
appropriately to avoid further harm or trauma to students through 
the use of restraint or seclusion; 
6.00(1)(a)(v) Nationally recognized physical management and restraint 
practices, including, but not limited to, techniques that allow 
restraint in an upright or sitting position and information about the 
dangers created by prone restraint; 
6.00(1)(b) 
Methods to explain the use of restraint to a student who is 
restrained and the student’s family; and 
6.00(1)(c) 
Appropriate documentation and notification procedures, including 
monitoring and recording the time duration of a restraint or seclusion. 
6.00(2) 
Retraining shall occur at a frequency of at least every two years. 
6.00(3) 
The Department shall make training available to local education providers 
and their employees and agents on the requirements of the statute and on these

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-45 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
8 
rules. This training will include differences between state law and current federal 
guidance on restraint and seclusion. 
7.0 
DOCUMENTATION AND NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS 
7.00(1) 
If there is a reasonable probability that a physical restraint or seclusion 
may be used with a specific student, the local education provider shall provide 
written notice to the parent of the student and, if appropriate, to the student, 
regarding physical restraint or seclusion procedures that may be used, the 
circumstances in which physical restraint or seclusion might be used, and the 
local education provider’s employees or agents who may be involved. The local 
education provider shall meet with a parent who received a written notice 
pursuant to this subsection 7.00(1) and requested a meeting to discuss the 
written notice. 
7.00(2) 
Notification and Documentation Requirements: 
7.00(2)(a) 
All restraints: A local education provider shall require its employee 
or agent who uses a restraint on a student to submit a written report of the 
incident to the local education provider no later than one school day after 
the incident occurred. 
7.00(2)(b) 
Physical restraint, more than one minute but less than five 
minutes: If a physical restraint is used for more than one minute but less 
than five minutes, the local education provider must provide written notice 
on the day of the restraint to the parent or legal guardian of the student. 
The written notice must include the date, the name of the student, and the 
number of restraints used that day that lasted between one and five 
minutes. 
7.00(2)(c) 
Physical restraint, five minutes or more, and any seclusion: If a 
physical restraint is used for five minutes or more, or if the student is 
placed in seclusion for any length of time, the local education provider 
shall provide verbal or written notice on the day of the physical restraint or 
seclusion to the parent of the student and shall mail or email a written 
report of the incident to the parent of the student not more than five 
calendar days after the use of the restraint on the student. The written 
report of the use of restraint must be placed in the student’s confidential 
file and include: 
7.00(2)(c)(i) The antecedent of the student’s behavior, if known; 
7.00(2)(c)(ii) A description of the incident; 
7.00(2)(c)(iii) Any efforts made to deescalate the situation; 
7.00(2)(c)(iv) Any alternatives to the use of restraint or seclusion that were 
attempted;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-45 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
9 
7.00(2)(c)(v) The type and duration of the restraint or seclusion used; 
7.00(2)(c)(vi) Any injuries that occurred; 
7.00(2)(c)(vii) The names of the local education provider’s employees or 
agents who were present and employees and agents who were 
involved in administering the restraint or seclusion; 
7.00(2)(c)(viii) 
The start and end time of the restraint or seclusion; 
7.00(2)(c)(ix) Details concerning the notification provided to the parent or 
legal guardian; and 
7.00(2)(c)(x) For seclusion, details concerning whether the door was 
opened or closed. 
7.00(3) 
When administration staff completes the written report described in 
7.00(2)(c), the administrative staff or their designees should also review to 
assure that appropriate procedures were followed and to minimize future use of 
restraint when possible. 
7.00(3)(a) 
Such staff review should include, but is not limited to: 
7.00(3)(a)(i) Ensuring there is follow up communication with the student 
and their parent; 
7.00(3)(a)(ii) Considering whether there were alternative strategies that 
could have been used; and 
7.00(3)(a)(iii) Recommending adjustment of procedures, if appropriate. 
7.00(3)(b) 
If requested by the local education provider or the parent of the 
student, the local education provider shall convene a meeting to review 
the incident. For students with IEPs or Section 504 Plans, such a review 
may occur through the IEP or Section 504 process. 
8.0 
ANNUAL REVIEW OF THE USE OF RESTRAINT 
8.00(1) 
Annual Restraint Review Process 
8.00(1)(a) 
Each local education provider shall establish an annual review 
process and document the results of each review in writing. 
8.00(1)(a)(i) For a charter school authorized by a school district, the data 
and the written review shall be integrated into the annual review of 
the authorizing school district. 
8.00(1)(a)(ii) Each institute charter school shall conduct their own review.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-45 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
10 
8.00(1)(a)(iii) Each BOCES that operates one or more public schools shall 
conduct their own review. 
8.00(1)(b) 
The purpose of each annual review process is to ensure that the 
local education provider is properly administering restraint, minimizing and 
preventing the use of restraint by increasing the use of positive behavior 
interventions, and reducing the incidence of injury to students, employees, 
and agents. 
8.00(1)(c) 
Each annual review process must include, but is not limited to: 
8.00(1)(c)(i) An analysis of incident reports, including consideration of 
procedures used during the restraint, preventative or alternative 
techniques attempted, documentation, and follow up; 
8.00(1)(c)(ii) Training needs of staff; 
8.00(1)(c)(iii) Staff-to-student ratios; and 
8.00(1)(c)(iv) Environmental considerations, including physical space, 
student seating arrangements, and noise levels. 
9.0 
ANNUAL REPORTING 
9.00(1) 
No later than June 30, 2026, and no later than every June 30 thereafter, 
each school district, BOCES that operates one or more public schools, and 
institute charter school shall submit in a report to the Department of Education, 
the information from the annual review conducted pursuant to rule 8.00 and the 
following data on restraints used by employees or agents of the local education 
provider: 
9.00(1)(a) 
The total number of physical restraints lasting more than one 
minute but less than five minutes; 
9.00(1)(b) 
The total number of physical restraints lasting five minutes or more; 
9.00(1)(c) 
The total number of students who experienced at least one physical 
restraint lasting more than one minute but less than five minutes; 
9.00(1)(d) 
The total number of students who experienced at least one physical 
restraint lasting five minutes or more; and 
9.00(1)(e) 
The total number of students who experienced at least one 
seclusion. 
9.00(1)(f) 
The total number of seclusions; 
9.00(1)(g) 
The total number of mechanical restraints;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-45 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
11 
9.00(1)(h) 
Within the total number of mechanical restraints, how many were 
restraints using handcuffs; and 
9.00(1)(i) 
The total number of prone restraints. 
9.00(2) 
School districts should track restraints in their district schools, charter 
schools authorized by the district, and any separate school operated by the 
school district for students with disabilities. 
9.00(3) 
Each institute charter school shall track its own restraints. 
9.00(4) 
Each BOCES that operates one or more public schools shall track all 
restraints used in the BOCES schools and those students shall be reported 
through the BOCES code rather than the school district code. 
9.00(5) 
For purposes of this data collection, local education providers are not 
required to track restraints for students that are placed outside of the local 
education provider (e.g., at a facility). 
9.00(6) 
Local education providers may have additional reporting requirements 
under law or contract, even if their restraints are not reported pursuant to these 
rules. 
10.0 COMPLAINT PROCEDURES AND REGULATIONS 
10.00(1) 
A student or a parent, or a third party on behalf of a student or the 
student’s parent, may file a complaint about the use of restraint used by a local 
education provider. 
10.00(2) 
Required Content of Complaints: A Complaint must contain the following 
information: 
10.00(2)(a) A statement that a local education provider employee or agent has 
violated a requirement regarding the use of restraint on the student and an 
identification of the portion of the law or rule alleged to have been violated, 
if known by the complainant; 
10.00(2)(b) The facts on which the Complaint is based, including the names 
and positions or titles of persons involved, the date of the alleged violation, 
the location where the alleged violation took place, and a description of 
what happened; 
10.00(2)(c) 
The name and the residential address of the child against whom 
the alleged violation occurred; 
10.00(2)(d) The name of the school that the child was attending when the 
alleged violation occurred;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-45 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
12 
10.00(2)(e) A proposed resolution to the alleged violation, if the complainant 
has a suggestion; 
10.00(2)(f) 
The Complaint must allege that the violation(s) set forth in the 
Complaint occurred not more than one (1) year prior to the date that the 
Complaint is filed with the CDE; 
10.00(2)(g) The signature and contact information (minimally, address and 
telephone number) for the complainant; and 
10.00(2)(h) Written verification in a cover letter accompanying the Complaint 
that a complete copy of the Complaint and any attachments have also 
been mailed, hand-delivered, or delivered by other secure method to the 
local education provider serving the child. 
10.00(3) 
The Complaint, including any attachments, must be mailed, hand-
delivered, or delivered by other secure method to the IDEA State Complaints 
Officer: 
State Complaints Officer Colorado Department of Education 
Office of Special Education, Dispute Resolution 
201 East Colfax Avenue 
Denver, Colorado 80202 
Additionally, as noted in paragraph 10.00(2)(h) above, a complete copy of the 
Complaint, including any attachments, must also be mailed, hand-delivered, or 
delivered by other secure method to the local education provider serving the 
child. 
10.00(4) 
Complaints involving children with disabilities 
10.00(4)(a) If the State Complaints Officer determines that the Complaint 
alleges a violation of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) 
or its implementing regulations in 34 C.F.R. Part 300, then the Complaint 
shall be processed through CDE’s IDEA state complaint process. In these 
cases, the State Complaints Officer shall also have the authority to 
investigate and process a Complaint alleging improper use of seclusion 
and restraints in accordance with the timelines and procedures outlined in 
these rules. 
10.00(4)(b) If the State Complaints Officer determines that the Complaint does 
not meet the criteria under section 10.00(4)(a), he or she shall refer the 
Complaint to the Restraint Complaints Officer (RCO) within five calendar 
days of receiving the Complaint and shall notify the complainant in writing 
of this referral.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-45 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
13 
10.00(4)(c) 
Nothing in this subsection shall require the complainant to submit 
an additional Complaint directly to the RCO. 
10.00(5) 
The Complaint shall be considered properly filed with the Department 
when it is received in CDE’s Dispute Resolution Office and satisfies paragraph 
10.00(2) above. A Complaint, once filed, will not be accepted for investigation if 
the CDE does not have jurisdiction (i.e., authority) to investigate; or if the 
Complaint does not set forth sufficient grounds on which to grant relief. 
10.00(6) 
Within ten calendar (10) days of receipt of the Complaint, the RCO shall 
decide to accept or reject the Complaint for investigation and notify the 
complainant in writing. If the Complaint was sent via mail, the RCO’s decision 
shall be postmarked by the 10th day. If the Complaint is accepted, the RCO 
shall: 
10.00(6)(a) Notify the complainant of receipt and acceptance of the Complaint; 
10.00(6)(b) Notify, by certified or overnight mail, the local education 
provider of each and every allegation contained in the Complaint together 
with a complete copy of the Complaint; and 
10.00(6)(c) 
Initiate an investigation concerning the allegations contained in the 
Complaint. 
10.00(7) 
Complaint Timelines: 
10.00(7)(a) Response: Within fifteen (15) calendar days of receiving the RCO’s 
notification of the Complaint, the local education provider may file a 
Response to the Complaint allegations and provide information which it 
deems necessary or useful for the RCO to consider in conducting a 
thorough investigation. If the local education provider fails to timely 
respond to an allegation, the RCO may, in the RCO’s sole discretion, 
deem the allegation admitted. 
The Response is due by 5:00 p.m. on the date due. The local education 
provider shall provide any written Response to the RCO and also a 
complete copy of the Response, including any attachments, to the 
complainant unless doing so would violate relevant laws regarding 
confidentiality. The local education provider shall provide the RCO with a 
legible copy of the written tracking receipt which verifies that a complete 
copy of the Response, including any attachments, was sent by certified or 
overnight mail to the complainant. 
10.00(7)(b) Reply: Within ten (10) calendar days of delivery of the response, 
the complainant may file a written Reply to the Response, including any 
attachments, in support of the complainant’s position. The complainant 
shall provide any written Reply to the RCO at the address identified in 
paragraph 10.00(3), above, and also provide the RCO by 5:00 p.m. on the 
date due with written verification that a complete copy of the Reply,

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-45 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
14 
including any attachments, was also mailed or hand-delivered to the local 
education provider. 
The Response and Reply must be delivered by 5:00 p.m. on the date due 
to the office of the RCO and not merely postmarked by the due date. If the 
Response or Reply is untimely, the RCO may, within the RCO’s sole 
discretion, refuse to consider the late document. 
10.00(7)(c) 
Timeline Extensions: If the RCO finds that exceptional 
circumstances exist with respect to a particular Complaint, the RCO may, 
in the RCO’s sole discretion, extend for a reasonable period of time, any 
of the timelines set forth in these Complaint procedures. Any request and 
extension of a timeline must occur prior to expiration of the timeline and 
shall be documented in a written order issued by the RCO prior to the 
expiration of the timeline and mailed to the parties. The RCO does not 
have authority to extend the regulatory statute of limitations of one (1) year 
described in Section 10.00(2)(f) above. 
10.00(7)(d) If one or more due dates in the process fall on a weekend or a state 
holiday, the due date shall be the next calendar day following a weekend 
or state holiday if the due date is on a weekend or state holiday. 
10.00(8) 
Complaint Investigations: 
10.00(8)(a) The Complaint investigation may include but is not limited to: an 
onsite investigation; request(s) that the complainant or local education 
provider provide additional information; and request(s) to review records in 
the possession of either party. 
10.00(8)(b) Any time after a Complaint is filed and before the Complaint is 
resolved, the RCO may recommend a local education provider to 
undertake immediate action in an extraordinary situation when it is 
imperative to do so in order to protect the rights, health or safety of any 
student. 
10.00(8)(c) 
The CDE, through the RCO, shall have sixty (60) calendar days 
from the date of receipt of the properly filed Complaint, to resolve the 
Complaint. The parties may mutually agree to extend the sixty (60) 
calendar day time limit in order to engage in voluntary mediation. Any 
extension of the Decision due date will be set by the RCO to a date certain 
as per section 10.00(7)(c), above. 
10.00(9) 
Complaint Resolution: 
10.00(9)(a) The RCO shall issue a written decision which details the findings of 
fact and conclusions of law unless the issues have been previously 
resolved. Based upon a finding that a local education provider has failed 
substantially to comply with state laws and regulations for the use of

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-45 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
15 
restraint or seclusion, the RCO will, as part of the resolution of the 
Complaint, make recommendations to the local education provider of 
remedial actions that may be taken in order to come into compliance with 
applicable law and regulations, (e.g., technical assistance and training 
activities). 
10.00(9)(b) The department of education has enforcement authority over the 
restraint and seclusion investigation decisions and may require corrective 
action by the local education agency. 
10.00(9)(c) 
The decision of the RCO shall be final.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-45 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
16 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 12/31/2009. 
Entire rule eff. 11/30/2017. 
Entire rule eff. 06/30/2023. 
Entire rule eff. 06/01/2026.
