---
id: "1_CCR_301-100"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1 CCR 301-100"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=7742&fileName=1%20CCR%20301-100&type=pdf"
---

#### 1_CCR_301-100. 1 CCR 301-100

1 
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
Colorado State Board of Education 
RULES FOR THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE TEACHER GRANTS FOR COMPUTER SCIENCE 
EDUCATION PROGRAM 
1 CCR 301-100 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
AUTHORITY: ARTICLE IX, SECTION 1, COLORADO CONSTITUTION. 22-97-101 ET SEQ.; 22-2-
107(1)(C) OF THE COLORADO REVISED STATUTES (C.R.S.). 
0.0 
STATEMENT OF BASIS AND PURPOSE 
The Teacher Grants for Computer Science Education Program, sections 22-97-102 and 22-97-103, 
C.R.S., requires the State Board of Education to promulgate rules to implement and administer the 
program. At a minimum, the rules must include: the application process, including requirements; and 
deadlines; criteria for the award of grants, including award priorities; the amount and duration of the 
grants; and the approved uses of the grant. 
1.0 
DEFINITIONS 
1.01 
“Computer science education” means the study of computers, algorithmic processes, and 
computer programming and coding, including their principles, their hardware and software 
designs, their applications, and their impact on society. 
1.02 
“Department” means the Department of Education created and existing pursuant to Section 24-1-
115, C.R.S. 
1.03 
“Eligible teacher” means a person who is employed as a teacher in a public school in the state. 
1.04 
“Public school” has the same meaning as provided in Section 22-1-101 and includes, but is not 
limited to, a district charter school, an institute charter school, and an online school, as defined in 
Section 22-30.7-102(9.5). 
1.05 
“School district” means a school district authorized by Section 15 of Article IX of the state 
constitution and organized pursuant to Article 30 of Title 22. “School district” also includes a 
Board of Cooperative Services created pursuant to Article 5 of Title 22, if it is operating a public 
school; a district charter school; an institute charter school; or an online school, as defined in 
Section 22-30.7-102(9.5). 
1.06 
“State Board” means the state board of education created pursuant to Section 1 of Article IX of 
the state constitution. 
2.0 
COMPUTER SCIENCE EDUCATION GRANTS FOR TEACHERS PROGRAM 
2.01 
The Department shall create and administer a grant program for eligible teachers who wish to 
pursue additional postsecondary education in order to provide computer science education to 
students in public schools. 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-100 
Colorado State Board of Education 
2 
3.0 
ELIGIBILITY, APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS, AND TIMELINE 
3.01 
A school district or school district on behalf of an eligible teacher or teachers may apply for a 
grant under the Teacher Grants for Computer Science Education program. Individual teachers 
are not eligible to receive grant funding directly from the Department. 
3.01 
As legislated monies are available, the Department shall solicit, review, and recommend awards 
to school districts for a period of one year. The State Board shall annually approve the amount of 
the awards under the Computer Science Education Grants for Teachers program which must be 
used for tuition, fees, training program costs, and/or books and materials for educators. 
3.02 
Unless otherwise specified by the department, on or before March of each year that monies are 
available, school districts interested in obtaining funding shall submit a grant application 
electronically to the Department, using the application form provided by the Department. 
3.03 
Each application submitted shall include, but need not be limited to the following: 
3.03.1 The number of eligible school teachers the grant will serve and a description of whether 
those teachers teach a high-poverty student population; a high number of minority 
students; or students in rural areas. 
3.03.2 A description of how the grantee plans to use funds, including: 
3.03.2(a) 
If applicable, a description of how the eligible teachers served by the 
grant intend to continue teaching in public schools in Colorado after completing 
postsecondary education obtained through the grant program (i.e. what type of 
role the eligible teacher will serve in a public school). If an applicant applies on 
behalf of teachers who fit this description, an assurance from those teachers is 
required as part of the application. 
3.03.2(b) 
If applicable, a description of how eligible teachers will use the grant for 
postsecondary coursework or training that enables them to teach computer 
science, including concurrent enrollment in computer science or Advanced 
Placement computer science courses, and whether that coursework or training 
applies toward the completion of a degree or industry-recognized certificate in 
computer science, the completion of a high-quality training program, or the 
mastery of a teaching content area in computer science. 
3.03.2(c) 
If applicable, a description of the high-quality training program to be 
offered in the district that will enable teachers to teach computer science. 
4.0 
APPLICATION EVALUATION PRIORITIES 
4.01 
In reviewing grant applications to make recommendations to the State Board for grant awards, 
the Department shall consider the following priorities: 
4.01.1 The extent to which the grant will benefit a teacher or teachers in a school district that 
serves a high-poverty student population; 
4.01.2 The extent to which the grant will benefit a teacher or teachers in a school district that 
serves a high-number of minority students; 
4.01.3 The extent to which the grant will benefit a teacher or teachers in a school district that 
serves students in rural areas;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-100 
Colorado State Board of Education 
3 
4.01.4 The extent to which the grant will benefit a teacher or teachers who intend to continue 
teaching in public schools in Colorado after completing postsecondary education 
obtained through the grant program; 
4.01.5 The extent to which the grant funding will be used for postsecondary coursework or 
training that enables a teacher or teachers to teach computer science, including 
concurrent enrollment courses in computer science or Advanced Placement computer 
science and whether that coursework or training applies toward the completion of a 
degree or industry-recognized certificate in computer science, the completion of a high-
quality training program, or the mastery of a teaching content area in computer science; 
4.01.6 The extent to which the school district intends to use the grant to fund high-quality 
training programs to be offered to teachers in the district that enable the teachers to 
teach computer science courses; and 
4.01.7 The cost of the professional development activities that the applicant intends to pursue 
using the grant funds. 
5.0 
AWARD PROCESS 
5.01 
On an annual basis, as legislated moneys are available, the Department shall make 
recommendations for grant awards to the State Board. 
5.02 
The State Board shall approve grant awards to school districts on an annual basis, as legislated 
moneys are available, for a term of one year. 
5.03 
Awards shall be made available to grantees on the first of the month following approval by the 
State Board. 
6.0 
REPORTING 
6.01 
Each school district funded through the Computer Science Grants for Teachers program shall 
submit annually information to the Department describing the following: 
6.01.1 The number of teachers in each school district who benefitted from the grant; 
6.01.2 The outcomes of the grant, including the postsecondary courses, degrees, training 
programs, or industry-recognized certificates completed and the education provider that 
provided the education; 
6.01.3 The amount of funding each grantee dedicated toward allowable expenses, including 
tuition, fees, training programs, books, and/or materials on behalf of teachers; and 
6.01.4 The expected impact of the additional teacher training and education on students. 
6.02 
On or before January 1, 2019, and each year thereafter as long as monies are available, the 
Department shall submit annually to the education committees of the senate and house of 
representatives, or any successor committees, the following information regarding the 
administration of the program in the preceding calendar year: 
6.02.1 The number of grants awarded during the previous calendar year; 
6.02.2 The amount of each grant awarded to each grant recipient in the previous calendar year; 
6.02.3 The number of teachers in each school district who benefitted from the grant;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-100 
Colorado State Board of Education 
4 
6.02.4 The uses of each grant, including the postsecondary courses, degrees, training 
programs, or industry-recognized certificates completed and the education provider that 
provided the education; and 
6.02.5 The expected impact of the additional teacher training and education on students. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 12/30/2017. 
Rules 3.01, 3.02 emer. rules eff. 04/12/2018; expired 08/10/2018. 
Rules 3.01, 3.02 eff. 09/30/2018.
