---
id: "1_CCR_204-32"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1 CCR 204-32"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=9265&fileName=1%20CCR%20204-32&type=pdf"
---

#### 1_CCR_204-32. 1 CCR 204-32

1 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE 
Division of Motor Vehicles 
DRIVER’S LICENSE – DRIVER CONTROL 
1 CCR 204-32 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
RULE 1  
SEX DESIGNATION FOR DRIVER LICENSES, IDENTIFICATION CARDS, AND 
IDENTIFICATION DOCUMENTS 
BASIS and PURPOSE 
The Department of Revenue, Division of Motor Vehicles, Driver Services Section developed these 
regulations to implement Colorado statutes concerning the accuracy of the sex designation on driver 
licenses, identification cards, and identification documents issued by the Division of Motor Vehicles. The 
rule is intended to implement legislation in House Bill 19-1039, passed by the General Assembly and 
signed by the Governor on May 31, 2019, and which took effect on January 1, 2020. The rule authorizes 
individuals to obtain a correct sex designation on their license, identification card, or identification 
document and ensure that the Division of Motor Vehicles collects and maintains accurate sex designation 
data. 
To conform with the law, the rule provides that Colorado driver licenses, identification cards, and 
identification documents will display one of three sex designations: female, male or X. The holder of an 
existing license, identification card, or identification document may amend the sex designation one time 
using a form created by the Department or an amended Colorado birth certificate issued pursuant to 
section 25-2-113.8, C.R.S. Customers under 18 years of age may amend the sex designation either by 
using the form with a medical statement or an amended Colorado birth certificate issued pursuant to 
section 25-2-113.8, C.R.S. 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY 
The rule is promulgated in compliance with section 24-4-103, C.R.S., and is authorized by the following 
statutory authorities: Section 25-2-113.8, C.R.S., which provides process for amending birth certificates 
and requires notification to the Department of Revenue; sections 42-1-201 and 42-1-204, C.R.S, which 
authorize the executive director to make regulations under articles 1 to 4 of title 42; and sections 42-2- 
107, 42-2-108, 42-2-302, 42-2-303, 42-2-403 and 42-2-505, C.R.S., concerning driver licenses, 
identification cards and identification documents. 
1.0 
Definitions 
1.1 
Department – The Colorado Department of Revenue 
1.2 
Driver License – A driver license, minor driver license, or instruction permit. 
1.3 
Source Document – A document that is provided by an applicant to prove identity and/or lawful 
presence. 
 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 204-32 
Division of Motor Vehicles 
 
2 
2.0 
Available Sex Designations 
2.1 
For purposes of Article 2 of Title 42, and all rules, regulations, and forms related to Article 2 of 
Title 42, “sex” or “gender” may be designated as female, male, or X. 
2.1.1 
X is a designation that is neither male nor female 
3.0 
Determination of Sex Designation at Initial Application 
3.1 
At the time of initial application, an applicant’s sex designation will be determined by a review of 
the source documents and the gender identity information provided by the applicant. 
3.1.1 
When an applicant’s source documents all display the same sex designation and are 
consistent with the applicant’s stated gender identity, that designation will be used for the 
credential application. 
3.1.2 
When an applicant’s source documents do not all display the same sex designation or 
are not consistent with the applicant’s stated gender identity, the applicant must choose 
the designation which accurately reflects the person’s gender identity. 
4.0 
Amending a Sex Designation 
4.1 
In accordance with C.R.S. 42-2-107(2)(a)(II), C.R.S 42-2-302(2.5)(a), and C.R.S. 42-2- 
505(1.5)(a), before amending the sex designation on a driver license, identification card, or 
identification document issued by the Division of Motor Vehicles, the Department must: 
4.1.1 
Receive a “Change of Sex Designation” (DR2083) form from the person, or from the 
person’s parent, if the person is a minor, or from the person’s guardian or legal 
representative, confirming the sex designation on the person’s driver license, 
identification card, or identification document does not align with the person’s gender 
identity; and 
4.1.2 
If the person is a minor under 18 years of age, the Department must also receive a 
signed Health Care Provider Statement on the “Change of Sex Designation” (DR2083) 
form. The statement must be signed by a professional medical or mental health care 
provider who is licensed in good standing in Colorado, or an equivalent license in good 
standing from another jurisdiction, and shall state that the sex designation on the minor’s 
birth certificate, driver license, identification card, and/or identification document does not 
align with the minor’s gender identity, and that, in the provider’s professional opinion, the 
minor’s sex designation should be changed accordingly, or the minor has an intersex 
condition, and, in the provider’s professional opinion, the minor’s sex designation should 
be changed accordingly; or 
4.1.3 
Receive a new Colorado birth certificate issued pursuant to C.R.S. 25-2-113.8. 
4.2 
Note that, by law, a sex designation may only be amended one time upon the individual’s 
request. Any further sex designation changes require submission of a court order indicating that 
the sex designation change is required. 
5.0 
No Surgery, Treatment, Clinical Care, or Behavioral Healthcare Requirements 
5.1 
Nothing in this rule requires an individual to undergo any specific surgery, treatment, clinical care, 
or behavioral healthcare to change the sex designation on a Colorado driver license, identification 
card, or identification document.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 204-32 
Division of Motor Vehicles 
 
3 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule emer. rule eff. 11/30/2018. 
Entire rule emer. rule eff. 03/08/2019. 
Entire rule eff. 04/14/2019. 
Entire rule emer. rule eff. 12/30/2019. 
Entire rule eff. 04/14/2020. 
Rules 1.0, 3.0, 4.1.2, 5.0 eff. 01/14/2021.
