---
id: "1_CCR_210-2"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1 CCR 210-2"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=7765&fileName=1%20CCR%20210-2&type=pdf"
---

#### 1_CCR_210-2. 1 CCR 210-2

1 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE 
Executive Director of the Department of Revenue 
MOTOR VEHICLE AND POWERSPORTS VEHICLE MANUFACTURERS, DISTRIBUTORS, AND 
MANUFACTURER'S REPRESENTATIVES, AND ALSO MOTOR VEHICLE BUYERS AGENTS 
1 CCR 210-2 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Regulation 44-20-105(2)(c) 
All applications for licenses must be approved by the administrator before they can be issued. 
An application for a new license shall be acted upon promptly and written notice of the action taken by the 
administrator sent to the applicant either by personal service upon him or by certified mail sent to the last 
address furnished to the administrator by the applicant. If the applicant becomes subject to denial, the 
grounds therefor shall be given to the applicant and an opportunity for a hearing provided within 30 days 
after notice is given to the applicant. Such hearings shall be held in accordance with and in the same 
manner as those hearings which involve a suspension or revocation of a license. Failure to appear for the 
hearing without good cause shown shall be grounds for automatic denial of the application. 
Regulation 44-20-105(3)(a)(II) 
The administrator, on his own motion or upon the sworn complaint of any person, charging any licensee 
with a violation of any provision of the law or any rule or regulation promulgated by the administrator 
concerned with the sale and distribution of motor vehicles shall determine through an investigation 
conducted by him and his agents and representatives, the probable truth of such charge or charges. 
Regulation 44-20-105(2)(d) 
1. 
All applications for licenses shall be made upon forms prescribed by the administrator. No 
application will be considered which is not complete in every material detail, nor which is not 
accompanied by a remittance in full for the whole amount of the annual license fee. 
If the applicant is a partnership, it shall submit with the application a certificate of partnership. 
If the applicant is a corporation, it shall submit with the application a copy of its articles of 
incorporation, and if a foreign corporation, evidence of its qualification to do business within the 
state. In addition, each corporation applicant shall submit the names and addresses of all persons 
holding over ten percent of the outstanding and issued capital stock of said corporation. Any 
transfer of ten percent or more of the capital stock of any corporation holding a license under the 
provisions of this article shall be reported to the administrator not less than ten days prior to such 
transfer. All such reports shall be made on forms supplied by the administrator. 
Upon request of the administrator, each applicant for a license shall provide suitable additional 
evidence of their residence, good character and reputation. Applicants and licensees shall also 
submit upon request by the administrator all required information concerning financial and 
management associations and interests of other persons in the business. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 210-2 
Executive Director of the Department of Revenue 
 
2 
No licensee shall change the name or trade name of the business, his place of business or 
business address without submitting written notice to the administrator, not less than ten days 
prior to the change. 
All information submitted to the administrator, by application for license or otherwise, shall be 
given fully, faithfully, truthfully and fairly. The failure of an applicant or licensee to so inform the 
administrator shall be grounds for the suspension, revocation, or denial of the license. 
2. 
A change in the operating entity of a licensee's business shall be cause for the revocation of the 
license and shall require a new application and fee. 
Regulation 44-20-105(2)(e) 
If it shall appear from an investigation by the administrator and his agents and representatives, or shall 
otherwise come to the attention of the administrator that there is probable cause to believe that a licensee 
has violated any provision set forth in this article or any rule or regulation promulgated in accordance 
therewith, the administrator shall issue and cause to be served upon such licensee either by certified mail 
at the last address furnished the executive director by the licensee, or by personal service upon the 
licensee, a notice of hearing. 
A hearing shall be held at a place and time designated by the administrator on the day stated in the 
notice, or upon such other day as may be set for good cause shown. Evidence in support of the charges 
shall be given first, followed by cross-examination of those testifying thereto. The licensee, in person or 
by counsel, shall then be permitted to give evidence in defense and explanation, and shall be allowed to 
give evidence and statements in mitigation of the charges. In the event the licensee is found to have 
committed the violation charged, evidence and statements in aggravation of the offense shall also be 
permitted. 
After considering all the evidence and arguments presented at the hearing, the administrator will make a 
final determination either at the hearing or within a reasonable time thereafter, and send the licensee by 
certified mail at the last address furnished the administrator by the licensee or by personal service upon 
him a notice of final determination. In the event the licensee is found not to have violated any law, rule or 
regulation, the charges against him will be dismissed. If the licensee is found to have violated some law, 
rule or regulation, a cease and desist order shall be issued by the administrator, and in the proper case 
his license suspended or revoked on such terms and conditions and for such period of time as to the 
administrator shall appear fair and just. The decision of the administrator shall include a statement of 
findings and conclusions upon all the material issues of fact, law, or discretion presented by the record 
and the appropriate rule, order, sanction, relief or denial thereof. Failure to appear for the hearing without 
good cause shown shall be grounds for automatic suspension or revocation of the license. 
Cease and desist orders shall be issued by the administrator, after due notice and hearing in accordance 
with this article and the rules and regulations promulgated therewith for any unlawful acts engaged in by a 
licensee as enumerated in Section 44-20-124(2), C.R.S., as amended. 
Regulation 44-20-117 
The administrator, by accepting the filing of written warranties, is not authorized to mediate disputes 
between manufacturers, dealers and retail purchasers of motor vehicles. 
If the manufacturer provides no written warranty on any motor vehicle or parts thereof, written notice of 
this fact shall be given to the administrator and placed on file with him. The filing of such disclaimer of 
warranty shall not exempt such manufacturer from possible claims against him under this article.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 210-2 
Executive Director of the Department of Revenue 
 
3 
Regulation 44-20-118(5) 
Agreement means contract or franchise or any other terminology used to describe the contractual 
relationship between manufacturers, distributors and motor vehicle dealers. 
Manufacturers and distributors shall notify the administrator immediately of the appointment of any 
additional dealers, of any revisions or additions to the typical written agreement on file, or of any 
supplements to such agreement. Agreements are deemed to be continuing unless the manufacturer or 
distributor has notified the administrator of the discontinuation or cancellation of the agreement of any of 
its dealers. 
If a manufacturer or distributor does not enter into any formal written agreement with its dealers, written 
notice to this effect shall be given to the administrator and placed on file by him. 
The administrator may be appointed as the agent for service of process in the state of Colorado. In any 
case wherein a licensee or licensees are served with process by service thereof upon the administrator, 
the administrator shall no later than two days after the service of said process upon him mail a copy 
thereof to each such licensee addressed to the licensee at the last address furnished to the administrator 
by the licensee, by certified mail with request for return receipt. 
Regulation 44-20-121(1)(b) 
No license shall be issued to or held by any person, unless he is with respect to his character, record and 
reputation, satisfactory to the administrator. 
Regulation 44-20-405(1) 
All manufacturers doing business in the state of Colorado, irrespective of whether they maintain or have 
places of business herein, must be licensed as such. 
The sale of any new and unused powersports vehicles, either directly or indirectly in the state of Colorado 
shall constitute doing business in the state by the manufacturer and shall subject such manufacturer to 
the requirements of this article. 
Regulation 44-20-405(1)(d) 
1. 
All applications for licenses shall be made upon forms prescribed by the executive director. No 
application will be considered which is not complete in every material detail, nor which is not 
accompanied by a remittance in full for the whole amount of the annual license fee. 
If the applicant is a partnership, it shall submit with the application a certificate of partnership. 
If the applicant is a corporation, it shall submit with the application a copy of its articles of 
incorporation, and if a foreign corporation, evidence of its qualification to do business within the 
state. In addition, each corporation applicant shall submit the names and addresses of all persons 
holding ten percent or more of the outstanding and issued capital stock of said corporation. Any 
transfer of ten percent or more of the capital stock of any corporation holding a license under the 
provisions of this article shall be reported to executive director not less than ten days prior to such 
transfer. All such reports shall be made on forms supplied by the executive director. 
Upon request of the executive director, applicants for a license shall provide suitable additional 
evidence of residence, good character and reputation. Applicants and licensees shall also submit 
upon request by the executive director all required information concerning financial and 
management associations and interests of other persons in the business.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 210-2 
Executive Director of the Department of Revenue 
 
4 
No licensee shall change the name or trade name of the business, the place of business or 
business address without submitting written notice to the executive director, not less than ten 
days prior to the change. 
All information submitted to the executive director, by application for license or otherwise, shall be 
given fully, faithfully, truthfully and fairly. The failure of an applicant or licensee to so inform the 
executive director shall be grounds for the suspension, revocation, or denial of the license. 
2. 
A change in the nature of the legal structure of a licensee’s business shall be cause for the 
revocation of the license and shall require a new application and fee. 
Regulation 44-20-405(1)(e) 
If it shall appear from an investigation by the executive director and executive director agents and 
representatives, or shall otherwise come to the attention of the executive director that there is probable 
cause to believe that a licensee has violated any provision set forth in this article or any rule or regulation 
promulgated in accordance therewith, executive director shall issue and cause to be served upon such 
licensee either by certified mail at the last address furnished the executive director by the licensee, or by 
personal service upon the licensee, a notice of hearing. 
A hearing shall be held at a place and time designated by the executive director on the day stated in the 
notice, or upon such other day as may be set for good cause shown. Evidence in support of the charges 
shall be given first, followed by cross-examination of those testifying thereto. The licensee, in person or 
by counsel, shall then be permitted to give evidence in defense and explanation, and shall be allowed to 
give evidence and statements in mitigation of the charges. In the event the licensee is found to have 
committed the violation charged, evidence and statements in aggravation of the offense shall also be 
permitted. 
After considering all the evidence and arguments presented at the hearing, the executive director will 
make a final determination either at the hearing or within a reasonable time thereafter, and send the 
licensee by certified mail at the last address furnished the executive director by the licensee or by 
personal service upon the licensee a notice of final determination. In the event the licensee is found not to 
have violated any law, rule or regulation, the charges against the licensee will be dismissed. If the 
licensee is found to have violated some law, rule or regulation, a cease and desist order shall be issued 
by the executive director, and in the proper case the licensee’s license suspended or revoked on such 
terms and conditions and for such period of time as to the executive director shall appear fair and just. 
The decision of the executive director shall include a statement of findings and conclusions upon all the 
material issues of fact, law, or discretion presented by the record and the appropriate rule, order, 
sanction, relief or denial thereof. Failure to appear for the hearing without good cause shown shall be 
grounds for automatic suspension or revocation of the license. 
Regulation 44-20-417(5) 
“Agreement” means contract or franchise or any other terminology used to describe the contractual 
relationship between manufacturers, distributors and powersports vehicle dealers. 
Manufacturers and distributors shall notify the executive director immediately of the appointment of any 
additional dealers, of any revisions or additions to the typical written agreement on file, or of any 
supplements to such agreement. Agreements are deemed to be continuing unless the manufacturer or 
distributor has notified the executive director of the discontinuation or cancellation of the agreement of 
any of its dealers. 
If a manufacturer or distributor does not enter into any formal written agreement with its dealers, written 
notice to this effect shall be given to the executive director and placed on file.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 210-2 
Executive Director of the Department of Revenue 
 
5 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
Regulations in 1 CCR 205-1 and 1 CCR 205-2 were recodified to 1 CCR 210-2 on 08/20/2014. 
History
