---
id: "1_CCR_301-87"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1 CCR 301-87"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=10945&fileName=1%20CCR%20301-87&type=pdf"
---

#### 1_CCR_301-87. 1 CCR 301-87

1 
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
Colorado State Board of Education 
RULES FOR ADMINISTRATION OF A STATEWIDE SYSTEM TO EVALUATE THE EFFECTIVENESS 
OF LICENSED PERSONNEL EMPLOYED BY SCHOOL DISTRICTS AND BOARDS OF 
COOPERATIVE SERVICES 
1 CCR 301-87 
[Editor's Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
0.0 
STATEMENT OF BASIS AND PURPOSE 
These rules are promulgated pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes sections 22-9-104(2), 22-9-104(3) 
and 22-9-105.5(10). Section 22-9-101, C.R.S., et seq. creates a system to evaluate the effectiveness of 
licensed personnel in school districts and boards of cooperative services throughout the state as a means 
of improving the quality of education in Colorado. 
The basic purposes of the statewide system to evaluate the effectiveness of licensed personnel are: 
• 
To ensure that all Licensed Personnel are evaluated using multiple, fair, transparent, 
timely, rigorous, and valid methods, is determined by Measures of Student Learning.; 
• 
To ensure that all licensed personnel receive adequate feedback and professional 
development support to provide them a meaningful opportunity to improve their 
effectiveness; and 
• 
To ensure that all licensed personnel are provided the means to share effective practices 
with other educators throughout the state. 
1.0 
DEFINITIONS 
1.1 
“Administrator” means any person who administers, directs, or supervises the education 
instructional program, or a portion thereof, in any school or school district in the state and/or a 
person who is otherwise defined as an Administrator by their employing school, school district or 
BOCES. Administrator does not include a Principal or Teacher. 
1.2 
“BOCES” or “board of cooperative services” has the same meaning as provided in section 22-5- 
103(2), C.R.S. 
1.3 
“Colorado Academic Standards” mean the standards adopted by the State Board pursuant to 
section 22-7-1005, C.R.S that identify the knowledge and skills that a student should acquire as 
the student progresses from preschool through elementary and secondary education and include 
English language proficiency standards. Section 22-7-1013, C.R.S., requires each local education 
provider to ensure that its preschool through elementary and secondary education standards 
meet or exceed the Colorado Academic Standards. When referenced in these rules, the Colorado 
Academic Standards may be substituted with these locally adopted standards. 
1.4 
“Department” means the Colorado Department of Education. 
1.5 
“Educator” see definition for “Licensed Personnel”. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
2 
1.6 
“Element” means the detailed description of knowledge and skills that contribute to effective 
teaching and leading, and which corresponds to a particular Principal Quality Standard, Teacher 
Quality Standard, or Special Services Provider Quality Standard. 
1.7 
“Licensed Personnel” or “Licensed Person” means a person who is employed to instruct students, 
to provide professional services to students in direct support of the education instructional 
program or to administer, direct, or supervise the instructional program in a school in the state 
and who holds a valid license or authorization pursuant to the article 60.5 of title 22, Colorado 
Revised Statutes and is employed in a position requiring such license or authorization. Licensed 
Personnel include Teachers, Principals (which includes Assistant Principals by its definition), 
Administrators, and Special Service Providers who meet these qualifications for Licensed 
Personnel. In these rules, Licensed Personnel are also referred to as “Educators.” A school 
district or BOCES have discretion to include certain employees in their Licensed Personnel 
evaluation systems even if they are not required to be evaluated by these rules or statute. 
1.8 
“Measures of Student Learning” or “MSLs” mean the methods used by school districts and 
BOCES for measuring Student Academic Growth. 
1.9 
“Measures of Student Outcomes” mean the methods used by school districts and BOCES for 
measuring student outcomes in order to evaluate Special Services Providers. Measures are not 
limited to academic measures and may include measures focused on increasing access to 
learning since these educators may concentrate on non-academic factors that affect overall 
student well-being. 
1.10 
“Performance Evaluation Rating” means the summative evaluation rating assigned by a school 
district or BOCES to licensed personnel and reported to the Department on an annual basis. It is 
the equivalent of a “performance standard,” as defined in section 22-9-103(2.5), C.R.S. 
1.11 
“Principal” means a person who is employed as the chief executive officer (e.g., principal) or an 
assistant chief executive officer of a school (e.g. assistant principal) in the state and who 
administers, directs, or supervises the education program in the school. 
1.12 
“Principal Professional Performance Plan” means the plan required by section 22-9-105.5(3)(a.5), 
C.R.S., and is a written agreement developed by a Principal and school district administration or 
local school board that outlines the steps to be taken to improve the Principal's effectiveness. The 
Principal Professional Performance Plan must include professional development opportunities. 
1.13 
“Principal Quality Standard” means the Professional Practices or the Measures of Student 
Learning needed to achieve effectiveness as a Principal. 
1.14 
“Principal Evaluation System” means the complete evaluation system that all school districts and 
BOCES must use to evaluate Principals employed by them. The complete Principal Evaluation 
System includes the following components: (i) definition of Principal Effectiveness set forth in 
section 2.1 of these rules, (ii) the Principal Quality Standards described in section 2.2 of these 
rules, (iii) Measures of Student Learning described in section 5.1 (D) (3), (iv) required elements of 
a written evaluation system described in section 5.1 of these rules, and (v) the weighting and 
aggregation of evidence of performance that are used to assign a Principal to one of four 
Performance Evaluation Ratings as described in section 2.3 of these rules. 
1.15 
“Professional Practice” means the behaviors, skills, and knowledge that educators should exhibit. 
Teacher Quality Standards, Principal Quality Standards, and Special Services Provider Quality 
Standards reflect the Professional Practice expectations for educators in Colorado. 
1.16 
“School District” or “District” means a school district organized pursuant to article 30 of title 22, 
C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
3 
1.17 
“Special Services Provider” or “SSP” refers to any person licensed under § 22-60.5-201 and 
employed in a position requiring an SSP license or authorization., 
1.18 
“Special Services Providers Quality Standards” means the Professional Practices or Measures of 
Student Outcomes needed to achieve effectiveness as a special services provider. 
1.19 
“State Board” means the State Board of Education established pursuant to Section 1 of Article IX 
of the state constitution. 
1.20 
“State Model System” means the personnel evaluation system and supporting resources 
developed by the Department, which meets all of the requirements for local personnel evaluation 
systems that are outlined in statute and rule. 
1.21 
“Statewide Summative Assessments” mean the assessments administered pursuant to the 
Colorado student assessment system of assessments adopted by the State Board pursuant to 
section 22-7-1006, C.R.S. 
1.22 
“Student Academic Growth” means the change in student achievement against Colorado 
Academic Standards for individual students between two or more points in time; however, it can 
be measured in other ways as described below. For Principal and Teacher evaluation systems, 
there should be multiple measures to assess Student Academic Growth. One of those measures 
may be the results of statewide summative assessments. Student Academic Growth may also 
include other standards-based measures that are rigorous and comparable across classrooms of 
similar content areas and levels. As set forth below, a limited portion of Student Academic Growth 
may be based on the performance of all students at a school in which a Teacher or Principal is 
employed. Student Academic Growth also may include gains in progress towards postsecondary 
and workforce readiness, which, for Principals, may include performance outcomes for 
successive student cohorts. Student Academic Growth may include progress toward academic 
and functional goals included in an individualized education program and/or progress made 
towards Student Academic Growth Objectives. For the purposes of measuring effectiveness, 
expectations of student academic growth must take into consideration diverse factors, including 
but not limited to special education, student mobility, and classrooms with a student population in 
which ninety-five percent meet the definition of high-risk student as defined in section 22-7-
604.5(1.5). 
1.23 
“Student Academic Growth Objectives” mean a participatory method of setting measurable goals, 
or objectives for a specific assignment or class, in a manner aligned with the subject matter 
taught, and in a manner that allows for the evaluation of the baseline performance of students 
and the measurable gain in student performance during the course of instruction. 
1.24 
“Teacher” means a person who holds an alternative, initial, or professional teacher license issued 
pursuant to the provisions of article 60.5 of title 22 and who is employed by a school district, 
BOCES, or charter school in the state to instruct students. 
1.25 
“Teacher Evaluation System” means the complete evaluation system that all school districts and 
BOCES must use to evaluate teachers employed by them. A diagram of the complete Teacher 
Evaluation System includes the following component parts: (i) definition of Teacher Effectiveness 
set forth in section 3.01 of these rules; (ii) the Teacher Quality Standards described in section 
3.02 of these rules; (iii) Measures of Student Learning described in section 5.01 (D)(7); (iv) 
required elements of a written evaluation system described in section 5.01 of these rules; (v) the 
weighting and aggregation of evidence of performance to assign a Teacher to one; and (vi) the 
opportunity to appeal an ineffective rating as contemplated in section 22-9-105.5(3)(e)(VII), 
C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
4 
1.26 
“Teacher Development Plan” means the plan required by section 22-9-105.5(3)(a), C.R.S., 
defined in section 22-9-103(6), C.R.S. It is a written agreement mutually developed by a Teacher 
and their Principal that outlines the steps to be taken to improve the Teacher’s effectiveness. The 
plan may include consideration of induction and mentorship programs, use of highly effective 
teachers as instructional leaders or coaches, and appropriate professional development activities. 
1.27 
“Teacher Quality Standard” means the Professional Practices or the Measures of Student 
Learning needed to achieve effectiveness as a teacher. 
1.28 
“Unified Improvement Plan” means the school plan required pursuant to section 22-11-210, 
C.R.S. 
2.0 
PRINCIPALS: DEFINITION OF EFFECTIVENESS, QUALITY STANDARDS AND 
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION RATINGS 
2.1 
Definition of Principal Effectiveness: Effective Principals in the state of Colorado are 
responsible for the collective success of their schools, including the learning, growth and 
achievement of both students and staff. Effective Principals are adept at creating systems that 
maximize the utilization of resources, foster collaboration and facilitate constructive change. By 
creating a common vision and articulating shared values, effective Principals lead and manage 
their schools in a manner that supports schools' ability to promote equity and continually improve 
their positive impact on students and families. As the schools' primary instructional leaders, 
effective Principals enable collaborative communication and reflection based on data to inform 
curriculum, instruction, and assessment and create structures to facilitate improvement. Effective 
Principals model ethical behavior and continuously reflect on their practice in order to improve 
systems that support student learning 
2.2 
Principal Quality Standards. 
The Principal Quality Standards outline the knowledge and skills required of an effective Principal 
and will be used to evaluate Principals in the state of Colorado. All school districts and BOCES 
must base their evaluations of their Principals on either the full set of Principal Quality Standards 
and associated elements included below or must adopt their own locally developed standards 
that meet or exceed the Principal Quality Standards and Elements. A school district or BOCES 
that adopts its own locally developed standards must crosswalk those standards to the Principal 
Quality Standards and Elements, so that the school district or BOCES is able to report the data 
required by section 6.1 of these rules. 
2.2 (A) Quality Standard I: Principals demonstrate organizational leadership by strategically 
developing a vision and mission, leading change, enhancing the capacity of personnel, 
distributing resources, and aligning systems of communication for continuous school 
improvement. 
2.2 (A) (1) 
Element A: Principals collaboratively develop the vision, mission, and 
strategic plan, based on a cycle of continuous improvement of student outcomes, 
and facilitate their integration into the school community. 
2.2 (A) (2) 
Element B: Principals collaborate with staff and stakeholders to 
implement strategies for change to improve student outcomes. 
2.2 (A) (3) 
Element C: Principals establish and effectively manage systems that 
ensure high-quality staff. 
2.2 (A) (4) 
Element D: Principals establish systems and partnerships for managing 
all available school resources to facilitate improved student outcomes.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
5 
2.2 (A) (5) 
Element E: Principals facilitate the design and use of a variety of 
communication strategies with all stakeholders. 
2.2 (B)  
Quality Standard II: Principals demonstrate inclusive leadership practices that 
foster a positive school culture and promote safety and equity for all students, staff, and 
community. 
2.2 (B) (1) 
Element A: Principals create a professional school environment and 
foster relationships that promote staff and student success and well-being. 
2.2 (B) (2) 
Element B: Principals ensure that the school provides an orderly, and 
supportive environment that fosters a sense of safety and well-being. 
2.2 (B) (3) 
Element C: Principals commit to an inclusive and positive school 
environment that meets the needs of all students and promotes the preparation 
of students to live productively and contribute to the diverse cultural contexts of a 
global society. 
2.2 (B) (4) 
Element D: Principals create and utilize systems to share leadership and 
support collaborative efforts throughout the school. 
2.2 (B) (5) 
Element E: Principals design and/or utilize structures and processes 
which result in family and community engagement and support. 
2.2 (C)  
Quality Standard III: Principals demonstrate instructional leadership by: aligning 
curriculum, instruction and assessment; supporting professional learning; conducting 
observations; providing actionable feedback; and holding staff accountable for student 
outcomes. 
2.2 (C) (1) 
Element A: Principals establish, align, and ensure implementation of a 
district/BOCES plan of instruction, instructional practices, assessments, and use 
of student data that result in Student Academic Growth and achievement for all 
students. 
2.2 (C) (2) 
Element B: Principals foster a collaborative culture of job- embedded 
professional learning. 
2.2 (C) (3) 
Element C: Principals demonstrate knowledge of effective instructional 
practice and provide feedback to promote continuous improvement of teaching 
and learning. 
2.2 (C) (4) 
Element D: Principals hold staff accountable for setting and achieving 
measurable student outcomes. 
2.2 (D)  
Quality Standard IV: Principals demonstrate professionalism through ethical 
conduct, reflection, and external leadership. 
2.2 (D) (1) 
Element A: Principals demonstrate high standards for professional 
conduct. 
2.2 (D) (2) 
Element B: Principals link professional growth to their professional 
goals.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
6 
2.2 (D) (3) 
Element C: Principals build and sustain productive partnerships with key 
community stakeholders, including public and private sectors, to promote school 
improvement, student learning, and student well-being. 
2.3 
Performance Evaluation Ratings for Principals. The following four Performance Evaluation 
Ratings for principals must be used statewide: ineffective, partially effective, effective, and highly 
effective. The Department must develop a scoring method for assigning ratings to as a part of the 
State Model System and must provide guidelines for evaluating Principals who are consistently 
rated highly effective. 
School districts and BOCES may use this scoring method or may adopt their own scoring 
method, provided they ensure that each of the Principal Quality Standards have a measurable 
influence on the final Professional Practice score assigned to principals. 
3.0 
TEACHERS: DEFINITION OF EFFECTIVENESS, QUALITY STANDARDS, AND 
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION RATINGS 
3.1 
Definition of Teacher Effectiveness. Effective teachers in the state of Colorado have the 
knowledge, skills, and commitments needed to provide excellent and equitable learning 
opportunities and growth for all students. They strive to support growth and development, close 
achievement gaps and to prepare diverse student populations for postsecondary and workforce 
success. Effective teachers facilitate mastery of content and skill development and employ and 
adjust evidence-based strategies and approaches for students who are not achieving mastery 
and students who need acceleration. They also develop in students the skills, interests and 
abilities necessary to be lifelong learners, as well as for democratic and civic participation. 
Effective teachers communicate high expectations to students and their families and utilize 
diverse strategies to engage them in a mutually supportive teaching and learning environment. 
Because effective teachers understand that the work of ensuring meaningful learning 
opportunities for all students cannot happen in isolation, they engage in collaboration, continuous 
reflection, ongoing learning, and leadership within the profession. 
3.2 
Teacher Quality Standards. The Teacher Quality Standards outline the knowledge and skills 
required of an effective Teacher and will be used to evaluate teachers in the state of Colorado. All 
school districts and BOCES must base their evaluations of licensed classroom teachers on the 
full set of Teacher Quality Standards and associated detailed Elements included below or must 
adopt their own locally developed standards that meet or exceed the Teacher Quality Standards 
and Elements. School districts and BOCES that adopt their own locally developed standards 
must crosswalk those standards to the Teacher Quality Standards and Elements, so that the 
school district or BOCES is able to report the data required by section 6.1 of these rules. 
3.2 (A) Quality Standard I: Teachers demonstrate mastery of and pedagogical expertise in the 
content they teach. The elementary teacher is an expert in literacy and mathematics and 
is knowledgeable in all other content that he or she teaches (e.g., science, social studies, 
arts, physical education, or world languages). The secondary teacher has knowledge of 
literacy and mathematics and is an expert in his or her content endorsement area(s). 
3.2 (A) (1) 
Element A: Teachers provide instruction that is aligned with the 
Colorado Academic Standards and their districts’ organized plan of instruction. 
3.2 (A) (2) 
Element B: Teachers develop and implement lessons that connect to a 
variety of content areas/disciplines and emphasize literacy and mathematics. 
3.2 (A) (3) 
Element C: Teachers demonstrate knowledge of the content, central 
concepts, inquiry, appropriate evidence-based instructional practices, and 
specialized characteristics of the disciplines being taught.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
7 
3.2 (B) Quality Standard II: Teachers establish a safe, inclusive, and respectful learning 
environment for a diverse population of students. 
3.2 (B) (1) 
Element A: Teachers foster a predictable learning environment 
characterized by acceptable student behavior and efficient use of time in which 
each student has a positive, nurturing relationship with caring adults and peers. 
3.2 (B) (2) 
Element B: Teachers demonstrate an awareness of, a commitment to, 
and respect for multiple aspects of diversity, while working toward common goals 
as a community of learners. 
3.2 (B) (3) 
Element C: Teachers engage students as individuals, including those 
with diverse needs and interests, across a range of ability levels by adapting their 
teaching for the benefit of all students. 
3.2 (B) (4) 
Element D: Teachers work collaboratively with the families and/or 
significant adults for the benefit of students. 
3.2 (C) Quality Standard III: Teachers plan and deliver effective instruction and create an 
environment that facilitates learning for their students. 
3.2 (C) (1) 
Element A: Teachers demonstrate knowledge about the ways in which 
learning takes place, including the levels of intellectual, physical, social, and 
emotional development of their students. 
3.2 (C) (2) 
Element B: Teachers use formal and informal methods to assess 
student learning, provide feedback, and use results to inform planning and 
instruction. 
3.2 (C) (3) 
Element C: Teachers integrate and utilize appropriate available 
technology to engage students in authentic learning experiences. 
3.2 (C) (4) 
Element D: Teachers establish and communicate high expectations and 
use processes to support the development of critical-thinking and problem- 
solving skills. 
3.2 (C) (5) 
Element E: Teachers provide students with opportunities to work in 
teams and develop leadership. 
3.2 (C) (6) 
Element F: Teachers model and promote effective communication. 
3.2 (D) Quality Standard IV: Teachers demonstrate professionalism through ethical conduct, 
reflection, and leadership. 
3.2 (D) (1) 
Element A: Teachers demonstrate high standards for professional 
conduct. 
3.2 (D) (2) 
Element B: Teachers link professional growth to their professional goals. 
3.2 (D) (3) 
Element C: Teachers are able to respond to a complex, dynamic 
environment. 
3.2 (D) (4) 
Element D: Teachers demonstrate leadership in the school, the 
community, and the teaching profession.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
8 
3.3 
Performance Evaluation Ratings for Teachers. The following four Performance Evaluation 
Ratings for teachers must be used statewide: ineffective, partially effective, effective, and highly 
effective. The Department must develop a scoring method for assigning ratings as a part of the 
State Model System and must provide guidelines for evaluating teachers who are consistently 
rated highly effective. 
School districts and BOCES may use the scoring method developed by the Department or may 
adopt their own scoring method, provided they ensure that each Performance Evaluation Rating 
is based thirty percent on Measures of Student Learning and that each of the Teacher Quality 
Standards (Professional Practice) has a measurable influence on the final Performance 
Evaluation Rating. 
School districts and BOCES must assign one of the Teacher Performance Evaluation Ratings to 
each teacher in a written evaluation report. As required by section 22-9-106 (3), C.R.S., all 
evaluation reports must contain a written improvement plan, that must be specific as to what 
improvements, if any, are needed in the performance of the teacher and clearly sets forth 
recommendations for improvements, including recommendations for additional education and 
training during the teacher’s license renewal process. As required by section 22-9-105.5 (3) (a), 
C.R.S., each teacher must be provided with an opportunity to improve their effectiveness through 
a teacher development plan that links their evaluation and performance standards to professional 
development opportunities. 
The following status implications apply for each Teacher Performance Evaluation Rating. These 
status implications do not apply to at-will employees. 
3.3 (A) Ineffective. 
3.3 (A) (1) 
A teacher whose performance is deemed ineffective must receive written 
notice that their Performance Evaluation Rating shows a rating of ineffective and 
includes a copy of the documentation relied upon in measuring their performance 
and identification of deficiencies. 
3.3 (A) (2) 
Implications for earning or losing nonprobationary status: A 
nonprobationary teacher who is rated ineffective or partially effective for two 
consecutive years loses nonprobationary status. 
3.3 (B) Partially Effective. 
3.3 (B) (1) 
Implications for earning or losing nonprobationary status: A 
nonprobationary teacher who is rated partially effective or ineffective for two 
consecutive years loses nonprobationary status. Nonprobationary status is only 
lost if the teacher is rated partially effective or ineffective during the year directly 
after the first rating of partially effective or ineffective. 
3.3 (C) Effective. 
3.3 (C) (1) 
Implications for earning or losing nonprobationary status: A probationary 
teacher may earn nonprobationary status after a minimum of three consecutive 
years of earning a rating of effective or highly effective. A nonprobationary 
teacher must maintain an effective rating to retain nonprobationary status. Two 
consecutive ratings below effective results in the loss of nonprobationary status.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
9 
3.3 (D) Highly Effective. 
3.3 (D) (1) 
Implications for earning or losing nonprobationary status: For the 
purposes of gaining or losing nonprobationary status, a rating of highly effective 
has the same implications as a rating of effective. 
4.0 
SPECIAL SERVICES PROVIDERS: DEFINITION OF EFFECTIVENESS, QUALITY 
STANDARDS, AND PERFORMANCE EVALUATION RATINGS 
4.1 
Definition of Special Services Providers Effectiveness. Effective SSPs in the state of 
Colorado are vital members of the education team and have the knowledge and skills necessary 
to ensure that diverse student populations have equitable access to academic instruction and 
participation in school-related activities. Effective SSPs develop and/or implement evidence- 
based services or specially designed instruction to meet the unique needs of their students. They 
support growth and development to close achievement gaps and prepare students for 
postsecondary and workforce success. They have a deep understanding of the 
interconnectedness of the home, school and community and collaborate with all members of the 
education team to strengthen those connections. Through reflection, advocacy, and leadership, 
they enhance the outcomes and development of their students. 
4.2 
Special Services Providers Quality Standards. The SSP Quality Standards outline the 
knowledge and skills required for effective special services providers practice and will be used to 
evaluate SSPs in the state of Colorado. All school districts and BOCES must base their 
evaluations of SSPs on the full set of SSP Quality Standards and associated detailed descriptions 
of knowledge and skills (also known as “Elements”). School districts and BOCES must either 
adopt the state Quality Standards and Elements or adopt a locally developed set of quality 
standards and elements that meet or exceed the state standards and elements, as determined by 
the Department. While there is a single set of SSP Quality Standards which apply to all licensure 
categories of SSPs, school districts and BOCES must ensure that the tools used to evaluate 
these providers adequately differentiate the Professional Practices for each category of SSP. 
4.2 (A) Quality Standard I: Special services providers demonstrate mastery of and expertise in 
the domain for which they are responsible. 
4.2 (A) (1) 
Element A: Special services providers provide services aligned with 
state and federal laws, local policies and procedures, Colorado Academic 
Standards, their district’s organized plans of instruction and the individual needs 
of their students. 
4.2 (A) (2) 
Element B: Special services providers demonstrate knowledge of 
effective services that reduce barriers to and support learning. 
4.2 (A) (3) 
Element C: Special services providers demonstrate knowledge of their 
professions and integrate evidence-based practices and research findings into 
their services. 
4.2 (B) Quality Standard II: Special services providers support or establish safe, inclusive, and 
respectful learning environments for a diverse population of students. 
4.2 (B) (1) 
Element A: Special services providers foster a safe, accessible, and 
predictable learning environment characterized by acceptable student behavior 
and efficient use of time in which each student has a positive, nurturing 
relationship with caring adults and peers.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
10 
4.2 (B) (2) 
Element B: Special services providers understand and respond to 
diversity within the home, school, and community. 
4.2 (B) (3) 
Element C: Special services providers engage students as individuals 
with diverse needs and interests, across a range of ability levels by adapting 
services for the benefit of students. 
4.2 (B) (4) 
Element D: Special services providers work collaboratively with the 
families, and/or significant adults for the benefit of students. 
4.2 (C) Quality Standard III: Special services providers plan and deliver effective services in an 
environment that facilitates learning for their students. 
4.2 (C) (1) 
Element A: Special services providers apply knowledge of the ways in 
which learning takes place, including the appropriate levels of intellectual, 
physical, social, and emotional development of their students. 
4.2 (C) (2) 
Element B: Special services providers utilize formal and informal 
assessments to inform planning and service delivery. 
4.2 (C) (3) 
Element C: Special services providers integrate and utilize appropriate 
available technology to engage students in authentic learning experiences. 
4.2 (C) (4) 
Element D: Special services providers establish and communicate high 
expectations and use strategies to support the development of critical- thinking, 
problem-solving skills, and self-advocacy. 
4.2 (C) (5) 
Element E: Special services providers develop and implement services 
related to student needs, learning, and progress towards goals. 
4.2 (C) (6) 
Element F: Special services providers model and promote effective 
communication. 
4.2 (D) Quality Standard IV: Special services providers demonstrate professionalism through 
ethical conduct, reflection, and leadership. 
4.2 (D) (1) 
Element A: Special services providers demonstrate high standards for 
ethical and professional conduct. 
4.2 (D) (2) 
Element B: Special services providers link professional growth to their 
professional goals. 
4.2 (D) (3) 
Element C: Special services providers are able to respond to a complex, 
dynamic environment. 
4.2 (D) (4) 
Element D: Special service providers demonstrate leadership and 
advocacy in the school, the community, and their profession. 
4.3 
Performance Evaluation Ratings for Special Services Providers. The following four 
Performance Evaluation Ratings for SSPs must be used statewide: ineffective, partially effective, 
effective, and highly effective.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
11 
The Department must develop a scoring method for assigning ratings as a part of the State Model 
System and must provide guidelines for evaluating SSPs who are consistently rated highly 
effective. School districts and BOCES may use the scoring method developed by the Department 
or may adopt their own scoring method, provided they ensure that each of the SSP Professional 
Practices has a measurable influence on the final Professional Practice score assigned to SSPs. 
While school districts and BOCES annually must assign a Performance Evaluation Rating to each 
licensed SSP, school districts and BOCES have discretion to determine how these ratings will be 
used for purposes of employment contracts, employee retention, and/or the assignment of 
probationary or nonprobationary status, if applicable. 
Supervisors must clearly communicate to SSPs the consequences of each category of 
Performance Evaluation Rating, including how each SSP’s assigned rating contributes to the loss 
or gain of nonprobationary status for that SSP, if the employer decides in its discretion to award 
probationary or nonprobationary status to its SSPs. 
4.4 
Local Systems for Evaluating Special Services Providers 
4.4 (A) School districts and BOCES are strongly encouraged to involve providers with relevant 
expertise in the evaluation of each SSP in their first three years of practice, for any 
evaluation of an SSP that will be relied upon for decisions concerning job protection 
status, and once for every third annual evaluation for all other SSPs. If a school district or 
BOCES chooses to involve such providers, the following practices are recommended: 
4.4 (A) (1) 
The participation of such providers may consist of observations, review 
of documents or data relevant to the evaluation, interviews with educators, 
parents, and/or students, and/or any other review that relates to the performance 
of the SSP and is appropriate and informative for the evaluation of the SSP. 
4.4 (A) (2) 
For each evaluation in which they participate, school districts and 
BOCES are encouraged to ensure that such providers have participated in one of 
the trainings in evaluation skills described in section 5.3 (B) of these rules and 
meet at least one of the following requirements: 
4.4 (A) (2) (a) 
credential and/or license and work experience in the same 
domain as the SSP being evaluated; 
4.4 (A) (2) (b) 
if currently working in the field, a Performance Evaluation Rating 
of effective or highly effective; and/or 
4.4 (A) (2) (c) 
thorough knowledge about professional expectations and 
responsibilities, aligned to the SSP Quality Standards. 
4.4 (A) (3) 
In advance of the SSP’s evaluation, the SSP’s supervisor is encouraged 
to establish the role of any expert’s participation in the evaluation. 
4.4 (A) (4) 
As a part of the expert’s participation in the evaluation process, the 
expert is encouraged to contribute to actionable feedback for the SSP and must 
provide the SSP’s supervisor(s) with support designed to advance the 
supervisor(s)’s knowledge of professional expectations and context. 
4.4 (B) A school district’s or BOCES’ policies for evaluating SSPs may reflect a determination 
that different categories of SSPs or SSPs for whom evaluation results will have greater 
consequences require varying degrees of evaluation and support.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
12 
4.4 (C) In developing their written local system for the evaluation of licensed personnel, school 
districts and BOCES are encouraged to do the following: 
4.4 (C) (1) 
collaborate with SSPs, including representatives of relevant local 
associations or federations, if they exist, in the selection of the measures to be 
used for SSP evaluations, to ensure that these measures are relevant and 
appropriate; 
4.4 (C) (2) 
include an SSP as a member of the school district’s or BOCES’ advisory 
personnel performance evaluation council and the district advisory council 
described in section 5.2 of these rules; 
4.4 (C) (3) 
gather student perceptions of their support experiences, not only as a 
measure of professional practice for purposes of formal evaluation, but also to 
provide SSPs with ongoing, informal feedback; and 
4.4 (C) (4) 
consult with principals in determining the role that SSP final Performance 
Evaluation Ratings will play in a principal’s Performance Evaluation Rating. 
4.5 
Supporting Implementation of Local Systems for Evaluating Special Services Providers. 
4.5 (A) The Department will maintain resources that support school districts and BOCES in the 
design, implementation, and ongoing support of their SSP evaluation systems, and that 
includes a broad array of materials applicable to multiple SSP contexts. 
4.5 (B) The Department is strongly encouraged to establish a pool of providers with field 
expertise who are willing to support the evaluation of SSPs in the manner described in 
section 4.4 (A) of these rules. School districts and BOCES may use this pool as a 
resource if they choose to involve these providers in the evaluation of SSPs. 
5.0 
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION SYSTEMS: DUTIES AND POWERS OF LOCAL SCHOOL 
BOARDS AND BOARDS OF COOPERATIVE EDUCATION SERVICES 
5.1 
Required Components of Written Local Evaluation System. Every school district and BOCES 
must adopt either the State Model System or a locally-developed evaluation system that includes 
the following components of the State Model System: 
5.1 (A) The purposes of the evaluation system, including, but not limited to, the following: 
5.1 (A) (1) 
providing a basis for the improvement of instruction; 
5.1 (A) (2) 
enhancing implementation of programs of curriculum; 
5.1 (A) (3) 
providing the measurement of satisfactory performance for individual 
licensed personnel and serving as documentation for an unsatisfactory 
performance dismissal proceeding under article 63 of title 22; and 
5.1 (A) (4) 
serving as a measurement of the professional growth and development 
of licensed personnel. 
5.1 (B) The licensed personnel positions to be evaluated, which includes all teachers, including 
part-time as defined in section 22-63-103(6), C.R.S., SSPs, administrators, and 
principals; 
5.1 (C) The title or position of the evaluator for each position to be evaluated;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
13 
5.1 (D) Evaluating Licensed Personnel. The standards set by the local school board or 
BOCES for effective performance for licensed personnel and the criteria to be used to 
evaluate the performance of each licensed person against such standards, consistent 
across types of licensed personnel. Though the selected criteria may vary among 
categories of personnel, to reflect the diversity of students, the evaluation system must 
apply consistent criteria to each category of personnel, including the various categories of 
principals, teachers, and SSPs; 
5.1 (D) (1) 
Principal Effectiveness and Principal Quality Standards. The 
definition of principal effectiveness, included in section 2.1 of these rules, and 
either the Principal Quality Standards and associated Elements, included in 
section 2.2 of these rules, or locally adopted standards that meet or exceed the 
Principal Quality Standards and Elements. 
5.1 (D) (2) 
Method for Evaluating Principal Performance on Professional 
Practice. A description of the method for evaluating principals’ Professional 
Practice, which method must include data collection for multiple measures on 
multiple occasions. 
School districts and BOCES are encouraged to experiment, with agreement from 
their personnel performance evaluation councils, with innovative methods of 
observation, which may include and not be limited to the use of observations by 
mentors and peers. 
5.1 (D) (2) (a) Required Measures of Principal Professional Practice. School 
districts and BOCES must measure principal performance against 
Quality Standards I–IV using tools that capture information about the 
following: (i) input from teachers employed at the principal’s school, 
provided that clear expectation is established prior to collection of the 
data that at least one of the purposes of collecting the input is to inform 
an evaluation of the principal’s performance and provided that systems 
are put in place to ensure that the information collected remains 
anonymous and confidential; and (ii) the percentage and number of 
teachers in the school who are rated as: highly effective, effective, 
partially effective, and ineffective; and the number and percentage of 
teachers who are improving their performance, in comparison to the 
goals articulated in the principal’s Professional Performance Plan.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
14 
5.1 (D) (2) (b) Additional Measures of Principal Professional Practice. In 
addition to the required measures of Professional Practice, school 
districts and BOCES may also use other sources of evidence regarding a 
principal’s Professional Practice. School districts and BOCES are 
strongly encouraged to use measures, where appropriate, that capture 
evidence about the following: (i) student perceptions; (ii) parent/guardian 
perceptions; and (iii) perceptions of other administrators about a 
principal’s professional performance. Other measures may include the 
following: (i) direct observations; and (ii) examination of a portfolio of 
relevant documentation regarding the principal’s performance against the 
Principal Quality Standards, which may include, but need not be limited 
to, professional development strategies and opportunities, evidence of 
team development, staff meeting notes, school newsletters; content of 
website pages, award structures developed by the school, master school 
schedule, or evidence of community partnerships, parent engagement 
and participation rates, “360 degree” survey tools designed to solicit 
feedback from multiple stakeholder perspectives, examination of a 
Unified Improvement Plan, teacher retention data, external review of 
budgets, and school communications plan. 
5.1 (D) (3) 
Method for Evaluating Principal Performance Related to Student 
Academic Growth. A description of the method for evaluating principals’ 
performance related to Student Academic Growth. The Measures of Student 
Learning used for evaluating principals’ performance must meet the following 
criteria: 
5.1 (D) (3) (a) 
When available, school districts and BOCES must ensure that 
data included in the school performance framework, required pursuant to 
section 22-11- 204, C.R.S., is used to evaluate principal performance. 
School districts and BOCES may choose to weight specific components 
of the school performance framework differently than they are weighted 
in the school performance framework, depending on the principal’s 
responsibilities and the performance needs of the school, so long as 
student longitudinal growth carries the greatest weight. 
5.1 (D) (3) (b) 
School districts and BOCES must incorporate at least one other 
Measure of Student Learning and must ensure that the Measures of 
Student Learning selected for principal evaluations are consistent with 
the Measures of Student Learning used for the evaluation of teachers in 
each principal’s school, as described in section 5.1 (D) (7) of these rules. 
5.1 (D) (3) (c) 
School districts and BOCES are strongly encouraged to involve 
principals in a discussion of which of the available Measures of Student 
Learning are appropriate to the principals’ schools and school 
improvement efforts. 
5.1 (D) (3) (d) 
Measures of Student Learning must reflect the growth of 
students in all subject areas and grades, not only those in subjects and 
grades that are tested using statewide summative assessments and 
must reflect the broader responsibility a principal has for ensuring the 
overall outcomes of students in the building. 
5.1 (D) (3) (e) 
School districts and BOCES must seek to ensure that Measures 
of Student Learning correspond to implementation benchmarks and 
targets included in the Unified Improvement Plan for the school at which 
a principal is employed.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
15 
5.1 (D) (3) (f) 
School districts and BOCES must seek to ensure that Measures 
of Student Learning are valid, meaning that they measure growth 
towards attainment of the academic standards adopted by the local 
school board pursuant to section 22-7-1013, C.R.S. and that analysis 
and inferences from the measures can be supported by evidence and 
logic. 
5.1 (D) (3) (g) 
School districts and BOCES must seek to ensure that Measures 
of Student Learning are reliable, meaning that the measures should be 
reasonably stable over time and in substance and that data from the 
measures will be sufficient to warrant reasonably consistent inferences. 
5.1 (D) (3) (h) 
Early Childhood - Grade 3. For those principals responsible for 
students in early childhood education through grade 3, evaluation 
measures must be consistent with outcomes used as the basis for 
evaluations for teachers teaching these grade levels, which may include, 
and are not limited to, assessments of early literacy and/or mathematics 
shared among members of the school community that may be used to 
measure student longitudinal growth. 
5.1 (D) (3) (i) 
Grades 4-8. For those principals responsible for students in 
grades 4-8, a portion of the evaluation for Measures of Student Learning 
must be based on the results of the Colorado longitudinal growth model, 
calculated pursuant to section 22-11-203, C.R.S., for subjects tested by 
statewide summative assessments. The weight of this measure may be 
increased to reflect the increased proportion of subjects covered by 
statewide summative assessments over time. A portion of the principal’s 
evaluation also must be based on other appropriate Measures of Student 
Learning for students in grades 4-8, which may include, but are not 
limited to, Measures of Student Learning shared among the evaluated 
personnel in the school. 
5.1 (D) (3) (j) 
Grades 9-12. For those principals responsible for students in 
grades 9-12, a portion of the evaluation must be based on the results of 
the Colorado longitudinal growth model, calculated pursuant to section 
22-11-203, C.R.S., for subjects tested by state summative assessments. 
To account for the portion of teachers without direct or indirect results 
from the Colorado longitudinal growth model, a portion of a principal’s 
growth determination may be based upon appropriate Measures of 
Student Learning for personnel teaching in subjects and grades not 
tested by statewide summative assessments, which may include, but are 
not limited to, Measures of Student Learning shared among evaluated 
personnel in the school. 
5.1 (D) (3) (k) 
For the evaluation of principals responsible for students in 
multiple grade spans, school districts and BOCES must select a 
combination of Measures of Student Learning reflecting the grade levels 
of all students in the school. 
5.1 (D) (3) (l) 
When compiling Measures of Student Learning to evaluate 
performance, school districts and BOCES must give the most weight to 
those measures that demonstrate the highest technical quality and rigor.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
16 
5.1 (D) (3) (m) For the evaluation of a principal who has been employed by a 
school district or BOCES for one school year or less, Measures of 
Student Learning must not include data that was created prior to the date 
on which the principal commenced employment with the school district or 
BOCES. 
5.1 (D) (4) 
Weighting of Performance on Principal Quality Standards. A 
description of the manner in which performance on each of the Principal Quality 
Standards will be weighed in assigning a Performance Evaluation Rating. 
Measures of Principal Professional Practice must determine seventy percent of a 
principal’s overall Performance Evaluation Rating, and Measures of Student 
Learning must determine the other thirty percent of the overall Performance 
Evaluation Rating. Each of the Principal Quality Standards I-IV (Professional 
Practice) must have a measurable influence on the overall Performance 
Evaluation Rating. 
5.1 (D) (4) (a) 
A measure of collectively attributed Student Academic Growth, 
whether on a school-wide basis or across grades or subjects, must not 
exceed ten percent of the principal’s evaluation. 
5.1 (D) (5) 
Teacher Effectiveness and Teacher Quality Standards. The definition 
of teacher effectiveness, included in section 3.1 of these rules, and either the 
Teacher Quality Standards and associated Elements, included in section 3.2 of 
these rules, or locally adopted standards that meet or exceed the Teacher 
Quality Standards and Elements. 
5.1 (D) (6) 
Method for Evaluating Teacher Professional Practice. A description 
of the method for evaluating teachers’ Professional Practice, which method must 
include data collection for multiple measures on multiple occasions. School 
districts and BOCES must collect teacher performance data related to 
Professional Practice using observations and at least one of the following 
measures: (a) student perception measures (e.g., surveys), where appropriate 
and feasible, (b) peer feedback, (c) feedback from parents or guardians; or (d) 
review of teacher lesson plans or student work samples. 
The method for evaluating teachers’ Professional Practice may include additional 
measures. 
In determining how to use the data collected about teacher performance, whether 
for written evaluation reports or for informal feedback and identification of 
appropriate professional development, school districts and BOCES must 
consider the technical quality and rigor of the methods used to collect the data, 
and the technical quality of the data itself. 
School districts and BOCES are encouraged to experiment, with agreement from 
their personnel performance evaluation councils, with innovative methods of 
observation, which may include and not be limited to the use of observations by 
mentors, teaching coaches, peers, department leaders, and video or digital 
recording. 
5.1 (D) (7) 
Method for Evaluating Teacher Performance Related to Student 
Academic Growth. A description of the method for evaluating teachers’ 
performance related to Student Academic Growth.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
17 
School districts and BOCES must categorize teachers into appropriate 
categories based on the availability and technical quality of student assessments 
available for the courses and subjects taught by those teachers. School districts 
and BOCES must then choose or develop appropriate Measures of Student 
Learning to be used in the evaluation of each personnel category. 
Student Academic Growth must be measured using multiple measures. When 
compiling these measures to evaluate performance, school districts and BOCES 
must consider the relative technical quality and rigor of the various measures. 
Measures of Student Learning must include the following: 
5.1 (D) (7) (a) 
A measure of individually attributed Student Academic Growth, 
meaning that outcomes on that measure are attributed to an individual 
Teacher; 
5.1 (D) (7) (b) 
A measure of collectively attributed Student Academic Growth, 
whether on students within a grade level or within the school in which the 
Teacher is employed, meaning that outcomes on that measure are 
attributed to at least two licensed personnel which must not exceed ten 
percent of the teacher’s evaluation; 
5.1 (D) (7) (c) 
When available, statewide summative assessment results may 
be used for teachers. For the evaluation of a teacher who has been 
employed by a school district or BOCES for one school year or less, 
Measures of Student Learning must not include data that was created 
prior to the date on which the teacher commenced employment with the 
school district or BOCES; and 
5.1 (D) (7) (d) 
School districts and BOCES are strongly encouraged to involve 
teachers in a discussion of which of the available measures of Student 
Academic Growth are appropriate to the teacher’s role and student 
growth goals. 
5.1 (D) (8) 
Selection of Measures for Evaluating Teacher Performance Related 
to Student Academic Growth. The method for evaluating Teachers’ 
performance related to Student Academic Growth is described in section 5.1 (D) 
(7) of these rules. These measures must meet the following criteria: 
5.1 (D) (8) (a) 
School districts and BOCES must seek to ensure that Measures 
of Student Learning are valid, meaning that the measures are aligned 
with the academic standards adopted by the local school board pursuant 
to section 22-7-1013, C.R.S. and that analysis and inferences from the 
measures can be supported by evidence and logic; 
5.1 (D) (8) (b) 
School districts and BOCES must seek to ensure that Measures 
of Student Learning are reliable, meaning that the measures should be 
stable over time and in substance and that data from the measures will 
be sufficient to warrant reasonably consistent inferences; 
5.1 (D) (8) (c) 
In the effort to ensure that Measures of Student Learning are 
comparable among teachers of similar content areas and grades, school 
districts and BOCES are strongly encouraged to include teachers in a 
discussion of which measures are most appropriate to the teachers’ 
classrooms; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
18 
5.1 (D) (8) (d) 
For teachers teaching two or more subjects, individual Measures 
of Student Learning must include Student Academic Growth scores from 
all subjects for which the teacher is responsible. 
5.1 (D) (9) 
Weighting of Performance on Teacher Quality Standards. A 
description of the manner in which performance on each of the Teacher Quality 
Standards will be weighted in assigning teachers to a Performance Evaluation 
Rating. 
Measures of Teacher Professional Practice must determine seventy percent of a 
teacher’s total overall Performance Evaluation Rating, and Measures of Student 
Learning must determine the other thirty percent of the overall Performance 
Evaluation Rating. Each of the Teacher Quality Standards I-IV (Professional 
Practice) must have a measurable influence on the final Performance Evaluation 
Rating. 
5.1 (D) (10) 
Special Services Providers Effectiveness and Quality Standards. 
The definition of Special Services Providers effectiveness, included in section 4.1 
of these rules, and either the Special Services Providers Quality Standards and 
associated Elements, included in section 4.2 of these rules, or locally adopted 
standards that meet or exceed the SSP Quality Standards and Elements. 
5.1 (D) (11) 
Method for Evaluating Special Services Providers Professional 
Practice. School districts and BOCES must include a description of their method 
for evaluating SSPs in the written local system for the evaluation of licensed 
personnel. This method must meet the following criteria: 
5.1 (D) (11) (a) School districts and BOCES must ensure that the person or 
persons responsible for supervising each SSP’s work is clearly identified 
to the SSP at the beginning of each contract year. The supervisor(s) is 
responsible for the SSP’s evaluation; 
5.1 (D) (11) (b) School districts or BOCES must select evaluation measures for 
each of the nine licensure categories of SSPs employed by the school 
district or BOCES, which measures must reflect varying assignments 
and job duties; 
5.1 (D) (11) (c) The evaluation of SSPs must incorporate multiple measures to 
evaluate SSPs against the SSP Quality Standards, which measures 
must be gathered using multiple formats and occasions; 
5.1 (D) (11) (d) Data used in evaluating SSPs must be collected from the sites, 
or a representative sample of the sites, at which the SSP provides 
services; 
5.1 (D) (11) (e) At least one of the evaluation measures must be an observation 
by the SSP’s supervisor(s) or a trained evaluator with relevant 
professional expertise. The supervisor(s) is encouraged to consult with 
the SSP in determining the appropriate approach and timing of the 
observation, based on the SSP’s role and duties;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
19 
5.1. (D) (11) (f) In addition to an observation, evaluations of SSP’s must be 
based on at least one of the following performance measures, when 
appropriate to the SSP’s assigned duties: student perception measures 
(where appropriate and feasible), peer feedback, feedback from parents 
or guardians, review of student support documentation, and/or any other 
evidence relevant to the SSP’s assigned duties; 
5.1 (D) (11) (g) School districts and BOCES must seek to ensure that measures 
to evaluate SSPs against the SSP Quality Standards are valid, meaning 
that the measures are aligned with the professional services that the 
SSP provides and that analysis and inferences from the measures can 
be supported by evidence and logic, and that the measures are reliable, 
meaning that the measures are stable over time and in substance and 
that data from the measures will be sufficient to warrant reasonably 
consistent inferences; 
5.1. (D) (11) (h) In making decisions about how to use data collected about SSP 
performance, school districts and BOCES must consider whether the 
data collected are better suited for use within the final written evaluation 
report or for the purpose of providing feedback and professional 
development opportunities for the individual professional, or for both 
purposes provided they are appropriately weighted. In making this 
decision, school districts and BOCES must consider the technical quality 
and rigor of the methods used to collect the data, and the technical 
quality of the data itself. 
School districts and BOCES are encouraged to experiment, with 
agreement from their personnel performance evaluation councils, with 
innovative methods of observation, which may include and not be limited 
to the use of observations by mentors, coaches, peers, department 
leaders, subject matter expert(s) in the content area of the SSP being 
evaluated and video or digital recording. 
5.1 (D) (12) 
Method for Evaluating Special Services Providers Related to 
Student Outcomes. A description of the method for evaluating SSPs 
performance related to Student Outcomes. This method must meet the following 
criteria: 
5.1 (D) (12) (a) Thirty percent of the evaluation must be based on at least two 
measures of student outcomes, and the measures must be aligned with 
the role and duties of the individual SSP being evaluated. 
5.1 (D) (12) (b) For the evaluation of an SSP who has been employed by a 
school district or BOCES for one school year or less, Measures of 
Student Learning must not include data that was created prior to the date 
on which the SSP commenced employment with the school district or 
BOCES 
5.1 (D) (13) 
Weighting of Performance on Special Services Providers Quality 
Standards. A description of the manner in which performance on each of the 
Special Services Providers Quality Standards will be weighted in assigning SSPs 
a Performance Evaluation Rating.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
20 
Measures of Special Services Providers Professional Practice must determine 
seventy percent of a SSP’s total overall Performance Evaluation Rating, and 
Measures of Student Outcomes must determine the other thirty percent of the 
overall Performance Evaluation Rating. Each of the Special Services Providers 
Quality Standards I-IV (Professional Practice) must have a measurable influence 
on the final Performance Evaluation Rating. 
5.1 (E) Evaluation Process. The process to evaluate Principals, Teachers, and Special 
Services Providers should include observations and feedback that result in a final 
Performance Evaluation Rating and a written report. The frequency and duration of the 
observations, which must be on a regular basis and of such frequency and duration as to 
ensure the collection of a sufficient amount of data from which fair and reliable 
conclusions may be drawn, and which meet the following requirements: 
5.1 (E) (1) 
Principals. Principals must receive at least one observation and a 
written evaluation report each academic year. The written evaluation report, 
informed by a body of evidence collected systematically in the months prior, must 
provide a final Performance Evaluation Rating that rates a Principal as highly 
effective, effective, partially effective, or ineffective. 
5.1 (E) (2) 
Teachers. Probationary teachers must receive at least two documented 
observations and a written evaluation report each academic year. 
Nonprobationary teachers must receive at least one documented observation 
and a written evaluation report each academic year. 
The written evaluation report, informed by a body of evidence collected in the 
months prior, must include fair and reliable measures of the teacher’s 
performance against the Teacher Quality Standards and be used to determine a 
final Performance Evaluation Rating that rates a teacher as highly effective, 
effective, partially effective, or ineffective. Teachers must receive the written 
evaluation report at least two weeks before the last class day of the school year. 
5.1 (E) (3) 
Special Services Providers. A final Performance Evaluation Rating 
must be assigned once a year, using a body of evidence collected systematically 
in the months prior. School districts and BOCES must seek to ensure that the 
complete body of evidence leads to a valid and reliable measure of each 
professional’s performance against the SSP Quality Standards and provides the 
SSP with a written evaluation report. 
5.1 (E) (4) 
Educator Evaluation Scoring System. School districts and BOCES 
must use the State Model scoring system or develop a locally created system to 
determine how the multiple measures of educator performance will be 
aggregated to provide a single rating for Professional Practice on the applicable 
Quality Standards I-IV (Professional Practice), which will then be combined with 
a single rating for Measures of Student Learning/Outcomes to determine a final 
Performance Evaluation Rating. In developing its weighting policies, each school 
district or BOCES must ensure that Quality Standards I-IV are aggregated in 
such a way that each standard has a measurable influence on the rating for 
Professional Practice. Each school district or BOCES must ensure that the 
weight assigned to each particular measure is consistent with the measure’s 
technical quality and rigor. 
5.1 (E) (5) 
Prior to and multiple times throughout the evaluation process, the 
supervisor(s) for each principal, teacher, and SSP must engage in professional 
dialogue with the educator focused on their Professional Practice and growth for 
the course of the year.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
21 
5.1 (E) (6) 
Ongoing Data Collection and Analysis. School districts and BOCES 
must collect and analyze data on multiple occasions, in order to provide 
actionable feedback and support to educators on a regular basis in an effort to 
make evaluation an ongoing process rather than an event and to facilitate 
continuous improvement. 
5.1 (E) (7) 
Differentiated Evaluation and Support Needs. District evaluation 
policies may reflect a determination that different categories of educators require 
varying degrees of evaluation and support. 
5.1 (F) A description of the process that the school district or BOCES used for validating its 
evaluation methods. Such process must address: 
5.1 (F) (1) 
consistency among the multiple measures used for evaluations; 
5.1 (F) (2) 
inter-rater agreement when the measures are applied by different 
evaluators; and 
5.1 (F) (3) 
consistency of data used to evaluate performance (i.e., observation, 
surveys, Measures of Student Learning) and the Performance Evaluation Ratings 
that are assigned. 
5.1 (G) A description of the school district’s or BOCES’ system for ensuring that every Principal is 
provided with a Principal Professional Performance Plan. 
5.1 (G) (1) 
This Principal Professional Performance Plan must be developed in 
collaboration with the individual Principal and must outline annual goals for the 
Principal with respect to their school’s performance and the resources and 
supports which will be made available to support the Principal in achieving the 
outlined goals. A Principal’s Professional Performance Plan must be consistent 
with the measures that are used to evaluate that principal and how the Principal 
Quality Standards are weighted for that principal’s evaluation. School Districts 
and BOCES are encouraged to include goals related to a Principal’s and their 
designee’s ability to conduct meaningful evaluations of licensed personnel. 
5.1 (G) (2) 
Principals must be held accountable for progress against the goals laid 
out in the Principal Professional Performance Plan and school districts or 
BOCES must continually monitor performance goals, provide feedback and 
adjust support for the principal as needed. 
5.1 (G) (3) 
The Principal Professional Performance Plan must include the following: 
5.1 (G) (3) (a) 
Goals addressing the number and percentages of effective 
teachers in the school, and the number and percentage of teachers who 
are improving, in a manner consistent with the goals for the school 
outlined in the school's Unified Improvement Plan; and 
5.1 (G) (3) (b) 
Goals addressing school climate and working conditions, 
developed with reference to a working conditions or school leadership 
survey (for example, the state-funded biennial Teaching and Learning 
Conditions in Colorado (TLCC) Survey, required pursuant to section 22- 
2-503, C.R.S.), and other appropriate data, including conditions 
highlighted in comprehensive appraisal for district improvement (CADI) 
and school support team (SST) diagnostic reviews facilitated by the 
Department.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
22 
5.1 (G) (4) 
School districts and BOCES are also strongly encouraged to include in 
Principal Professional Performance Plans goals related to staff participation in 
the Teaching and Learning Conditions in Colorado (TLCC) Survey, administered 
by the Department pursuant to section 22-2-503, C.R.S., or other working 
conditions, culture and climate, or school leadership surveys, and use of survey 
results to guide improvement efforts. 
5.1 (H) Evaluation Process for Highly Effective Educators. School districts and BOCES may 
offer an optional modified evaluation process for principals, teachers, and special 
services providers who have received a rating of highly effective for at least three 
consecutive years. If offered, the modified evaluation process must provide an 
opportunity for the educator to continue to grow professionally as well as deepen and 
refine their professional practices. 
5.1 (H) (1) 
When offered, the modified evaluation process must meet the following 
criteria: 
5.1 (H) (1) (a) 
Becomes an available option after the educator earns a highly 
effective final Performance Evaluation Rating for three consecutive 
years; 
5.1 (H) (1) (b) 
Eligible educators and their evaluators discuss and select use of 
the modified evaluation process no later than one month from the start of 
the school year. The school district or BOCES must provide guidance 
and parameters for selecting the modified evaluation process and for 
implementation once selected; 
5.1 (H) (1) (c) 
Includes a modified rubric that maintains the established Quality 
Standards and Elements outlined in sections 2.2, 3.2, and 4.2 of these 
rules; 
5.1 (H) (1) (d) 
The modified evaluation process must result in a final 
Performance Evaluation Rating of highly effective, effective, partially 
effective, and ineffective as outlined in sections 2.3, 3.3, and 4.3 of these 
rules and provide feedback to the educator. 
5.1 (H) (1) (e) 
Identifies the conditions in which an educator will return to using 
the standard evaluation process and includes a formal review process a 
minimum of every three years to determine if the educator will continue 
to use the modified evaluation process. 
5.1 (H) (2) 
School districts and BOCES are strongly encouraged to include input 
from educators and members of their advisory councils described in section 5.2 
of these rules in the decision to offer the modified evaluation process for highly 
effective educators, as well as in the creation and implementation of this modified 
evaluation process when offered. 
5.1 (H) (3) 
The Department will ensure that the State Model System is updated to 
support districts/BOCES using the system to meet the criteria listed in section 5.1 
(H) (1) of these rules. 
5.2 
Process for Developing Local Evaluation System. Colorado statute outlines requirements for 
various entities to be involved in the development of local personnel evaluation systems. School 
districts and BOCES must collaborate with these entities in developing systems that meet the 
minimum requirements for evaluation systems described in section 5.1 of these rules.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
23 
5.2 (A) Each school district must have an advisory personnel performance evaluation council, 
which, at a minimum, consists of the following members appointed by the local school 
board: 
5.2 (A) (1) 
One teacher; 
5.2 (A) (2) 
One administrator; 
5.2 (A) (3) 
One principal from the school district; 
5.2 (A) (4) 
One school district resident who is a parent of a child attending a school 
within the school district; and 
5.2 (A) (5) 
One school district resident who is not a parent with a child attending 
school within the school district. 
5.2 (B) The council for a school district may be composed of any other school district committee 
having proper membership, as defined in section 5.2 (A) of these rules. 
5.2 (C) Each BOCES that employs licensed personnel must have a BOCES advisory personnel 
performance evaluation council, which, at a minimum, consists of the following members 
to be appointed by the BOCES: 
5.2 (C) (1) 
One teacher; 
5.2 (C) (2) 
One administrator; 
5.2 (C) (3) 
One principal representative of the school district or districts participating 
in the BOCES; 
5.2 (C) (4) 
One person employed by the BOCES who is defined as licensed 
personnel pursuant to section 22-9-103(1.5), C.R.S.; 
5.2 (C) (5) 
One resident who is a parent of a child attending a school within the 
participating school district(s); and 
5.2 (C) (6) 
One resident who is not a parent of a child attending a school within the 
participating school district(s). 
5.2 (D) These advisory personnel performance evaluation councils must consult with the local 
school board or BOCES as to the fairness, effectiveness, credibility, and professional 
quality of the licensed personnel performance evaluation system and its processes and 
procedures and must conduct continuous evaluation of the system. 
5.2 (E) Additionally, each local school board, pursuant to section 22-11-301, C.R.S., must 
appoint or create a process for the election of a district accountability committee that 
consists of: 
5.2 (E) (1) 
At least three parents of students enrolled in the school district public 
schools; 
5.2 (E) (2) 
At least one teacher who is employed by the school district; 
5.2 (E) (3) 
At least one school administrator who is employed by the school district; 
and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
24 
5.2 (E) (4) 
At least one person who is involved in business in the community within 
the school district boundaries. 
5.2 (F) Among the other powers and duties outlined in section 22-11-302, C.R.S., a district 
accountability committee is responsible for providing input and recommendations on an 
advisory basis to principals concerning the development and use of assessment tools 
used for the purpose of measuring and evaluating Student Academic Growth as it relates 
to teacher evaluations. 
5.2 (G) Each public school, pursuant to section 22-11-401, C.R.S., must establish a school 
accountability committee that consists of at least the following members: 
5.2 (G) (1) 
the principal of the school or the principal’s designee; 
5.2 (G) (2) 
at least one teacher who provides instruction at the school; 
5.2 (G) (3) 
at least three parents of students enrolled in the school; 
5.2 (G) (4) 
at least one adult member of an organization of parents, teachers and 
students recognized by the school; and 
5.2 (G) (5) 
at least one person from the community. 
5.2 (H) Among the other powers and duties outlined in section 22-11-402, C.R.S., a school 
accountability committee is responsible for providing input and recommendations on an 
advisory basis to district accountability committees and school district administration 
concerning the Principal Professional Performance Plan for the principal of their school 
and principal evaluations. 
5.3 
Training for Evaluators and Educators 
5.3 (A) School districts and BOCES must provide training to all evaluators and educators to 
provide an understanding of their local evaluation system and to provide the skills and 
knowledge needed for its implementation. 
5.3 (B) As required by section 22-9-106(4)(a), C.R.S., all performance evaluations must be 
conducted by an individual who has completed a Department-approved training in 
evaluation skills. Teachers may fill the role of an evaluator if they are a designee of an 
individual with a principal or administrator license and have completed a Department- 
approved training on evaluation skills. The Department must develop a process for 
approving education and training programs for evaluators that is consistent with the 
approval process previously developed pursuant to section 22-9-108, C.R.S. 
5.3 (C) School districts and BOCES are encouraged to provide training to teachers, so that 
teachers may conduct peer coaching observations in order to support other teachers by 
providing actionable feedback on Professional Practice.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
25 
5.3 (D) School districts and BOCES must clearly communicate to all teachers the tools that will 
be used to measure their performance of the Teacher Quality Standards and Measures 
of Student Learning prior to their use, and how these will be weighted and aggregated to 
determine final Performance Evaluation Ratings. School districts and BOCES must 
clearly articulate to each educator the personnel category into which they are assigned, 
and how the growth of the students they teach will be measured for the purpose of 
informing their Performance Evaluation Rating. If measures are altered any time through 
an evaluation cycle, School districts/BOCES must clearly communicate with educators on 
the need and reason for these changes and how they will impact the Performance 
Evaluation Ratings. School districts and BOCES that elect to adopt their own locally 
developed quality standards for evaluating teachers must clearly communicate how those 
local standards align with the state’s Teacher Quality Standards. School districts and 
BOCES must clearly communicate to teachers the consequences of each category of 
Performance Evaluation Rating, including how each teacher’s assigned rating contributes 
to the loss or gain of nonprobationary status. 
5.3 (E) School districts and BOCES must clearly communicate to all principals the tools that will 
be used to measure their performance on the Principal Quality Standards and Measures 
of Student Learning prior to their use, how the selected measurement tools will be used 
to determine performance on each Principal Quality Standard, the party or parties 
responsible for making decisions, and how these multiple measures will be weighted and 
aggregated to determine final ratings. School districts and BOCES must clearly articulate 
to principals how Student Academic Growth for principals will be measured and delineate 
the manner in which these measures are aligned with the Measures of Student Learning 
for teachers. School districts and BOCES that elect to adopt their own locally developed 
quality standards for evaluating principals must clearly communicate how those local 
standards align with the state’s Principal Quality Standards. School districts and BOCES 
must clearly communicate to principals the consequences of each category of 
Performance Evaluation Rating. 
5.3 (F) School districts and BOCES must clearly communicate to the SSP the tools that may be 
used to measure performance against the SSP Quality Standards prior to their use and 
the weighting policies that will be used to aggregate data for each SSP Quality Standard 
into a final Performance Evaluation Rating. Supervisors must clearly articulate for each 
SSP the category or categories of personnel into which they are assigned. School 
districts and BOCES that elect to adopt their own locally developed set of SSP quality 
standards must clearly communicate how those local standards align with the state’s 
SSP Quality Standards. 
5.3 (G) School districts and BOCES must provide training to educators to help them understand 
how the growth of the students for which they are responsible will be measured for their 
performance evaluation, and to assist educators in responding to Student Academic 
Growth data. 
5.3 (H) The Department will provide training, directly and through approved training providers 
(e.g., school districts or BOCES), for all persons who are responsible for the evaluation of 
licensed personnel (i.e., principals, teachers, and SSPs) that is focused on the skills and 
knowledge necessary to provide observation and feedback in support of the overall 
evaluation process and the educator’s ongoing professional growth and development. 
5.4(H) (1) 
Beginning August 1, 2024, any person who is responsible for the 
evaluation of a licensed educator (i.e., Principal, Teacher, or SSP) must 
complete the training provided by or approved by the department prior to 
obtaining an initial principal/administrator license or prior to renewing an existing 
license.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
26 
5.3 (H) (1) (a) 
Completion of the training will result in a licensure designation. 
5.3 (H) (2) 
School districts, BOCES, or other entities interested in gaining approval 
from CDE to provide this training for evaluators of licensed personnel must meet 
or exceed the following standards: 
5.4 (H) (2) (a) 
Evaluator Training Standard I: Evaluators will be able to identify 
the connection points within the evaluation cycle. 
5.3 (H) (2) (a) (i) 
Element A: Evaluators understand the timing 
and purpose of the connection points within the evaluation cycle. 
5.3 (H) (2) (a) (ii) 
Element B: Evaluators understand the 
observation and feedback cycle within the evaluation process. 
5.3 (H) (2) (a) (iii) 
Element C: Evaluators can connect the 
evaluation cycle to their local evaluation system and influence on 
students’ educational experience. 
5.3 (H) (2) (b) 
Evaluator Training Standard II: Evaluators will be able to apply 
observation and feedback best practices to their evaluation process. 
5.3 (H) (2) (b) (i) 
Element A: Evaluators understand best 
practices for observations and feedback. 
5.3 (H) (2) (b) (ii) 
Element B: Evaluators are aware of the Quality 
Standards and Elements for the educators’ role(s) they are 
evaluating. 
5.3 (H) (2) (b) (iii) 
Element C: Evaluators understand the 
connection between observations, feedback, and educators’ 
professional growth and development. 
5.3 (H) (2) (c) 
Evaluator Training Standard III: Evaluators will be able to identify 
potential for bias in observations and data collection. 
5.3 (H) (2) (c) (i) 
Element A: Evaluators understand the types of 
observational bias. 
5.3 (H) (2) (c) (ii) 
Element B: Evaluators understand how bias can 
influence observation, data collection, and the evaluation 
process. 
5.3 (H) (2) (d) 
Evaluator Training Standard IV: Evaluators will obtain strategies 
for interpreting observation data and preparing for meaningful feedback 
and follow-up for educators. 
5.3 (H) (2) (d) (i) 
Element A: Evaluators understand strategies to 
differentiate observations. 
5.3 (H) (2) (d) (ii) 
Element B: Evaluators understand the steps to 
create meaningful feedback based on observation data. 
5.3 (H) (2) (d) (iii) 
Element C: Evaluators can identify strategies for 
supporting low-performing educators.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
27 
5.3 (H) (2) (e) 
Evaluator Training Standard V: Evaluators will be familiar with 
resources to support the evaluation process and educators’ ongoing 
professional growth and development. 
5.3 (H) (2) (e) (i) 
Element A: Evaluators are aware of available 
options to share evaluation responsibilities and how to leverage 
those options in the evaluation process. 
5.3 (H) (2) (e) (ii) 
Element B: Evaluators are aware of resources 
and supports for evaluators and the evaluation process. 
5.4 
Process for Nonprobationary Teacher to Appeal Second Consecutive Performance 
Evaluation Rating of Ineffective or Partially Effective. 
5.4 (A) Requirements for All School Districts. The following requirements apply to the appeal 
process developed by school districts for a nonprobationary teacher to appeal a second 
consecutive Performance Evaluation Rating of ineffective or partially effective. For 
purposes of the appeal process, a rating of ineffective and a rating partially effective carry 
the same consequence; a teacher loses nonprobationary status after receiving two 
consecutive ratings of either ineffective or partially effective. The appeal process must 
allow for a final determination of the appealing teacher’s Performance Evaluation Rating 
and a final determination of whether that teacher retains nonprobationary status; it does 
not serve the purpose of determining employment and/or termination. 
5.4 (A) (1) 
Each school district must ensure that a nonprobationary teacher who 
objects to a second consecutive Performance Evaluation Rating of ineffective or 
partially effective has an opportunity to appeal that rating. 
5.4 (A) (2) 
The appeal process must adhere to the following principles: 
5.4 (A) (2) (a) 
the appeal process must be appropriate to the size and location 
of the school district; 
5.4 (A) (2) (b) 
the appeal process must be fair and clearly communicated to 
teachers, evaluators, principals, and, where appropriate, students and 
parents of students; 
5.4 (A) (2) (c) 
the appeal process must be a component of a larger system 
designed to increase the number of educators able to be successful 
rather than provide excuses for failure; 
5.4 (A) (2) (d) 
the appeal process must be clearly connected to the school 
district’s educator evaluation process; and 
5.4 (A) (2) (e) 
the appeal process must be constructed to produce appeal 
decisions in a timely and decisive manner; 
5.4 (A) (3) 
The appeal process must be developed, where applicable, through 
collective bargaining.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
28 
5.4 (A) (4) 
The appeal process must be voluntary for a teacher and initiated only if 
they choose to file an appeal. As required by section 22-9-106 (4.5)(b), C.R.S., at 
a minimum, the appeal process provided must allow the nonprobationary teacher 
to appeal the rating of ineffectiveness to the superintendent of the School District 
and place the burden upon the nonprobationary teacher to demonstrate that a 
rating of effective was appropriate. 
5.4 (A) (5) 
The appeal process begins on the date that a teacher receives their 
second consecutive Performance Evaluation Rating of ineffective or partially 
effective and concludes no more than forty-five (45) calendar days after they 
receive the Performance Evaluation Rating. A teacher must file an appeal within 
fifteen (15) calendar days after receiving their rating. These time requirements 
may be waived, by mutual agreement of both the teacher and the school district. 
5.4 (A) (6) 
A teacher is permitted only one appeal for the second consecutive 
Performance Evaluation Rating of ineffective or partially effective. A teacher filing 
an appeal must include all grounds for the appeal within a single written 
document. Any grounds not raised at the time the written appeal is filed are 
deemed waived. 
5.4 (A) (7) 
The grounds for an appeal are limited to the following: 
5.4 (A) (7) (a) 
The evaluator did not follow evaluation procedures that adhere to 
the requirements of statute and rule and that failure had a material 
impact on the final Performance Evaluation Rating that was assigned 
(e.g., an observation was never completed, or feedback was never 
shared with the teacher); and/or 
5.4 (A) (7) (b) 
The data relied upon was inaccurately attributed to the teacher 
(e.g., data included in the evaluation was from students for whom the 
teacher was not responsible). 
5.4 (A) (8) 
Any documents and/or proceedings related to the appeal process must 
be deemed confidential. 
5.4 (A) (9) 
The superintendent, or their designated individual, is the final decision- 
making authority in determining a teacher’s final Performance Evaluation Rating 
and whether a nonprobationary teacher loses their nonprobationary status. The 
superintendent must provide a written rationale for their final determination. 
5.4 (A) (10) 
The appeal process is final in regard to the final Performance Evaluation 
Rating and loss or retention of nonprobationary status. 
5.4 (A) (11) 
If the superintendent determines that a rating of ineffective or partially 
effective was not accurate but there is not sufficient information to assign a rating 
of effective, the teacher must receive a “no score” and must not lose his or her 
nonprobationary status. The assignment of a “no score” shall not interrupt the 
count of consecutive years towards earning or loss of nonprobationary status. 
5.4 (B) State Model System. The Department must include in the State Model System a model 
appeal process for a nonprobationary teacher to appeal a second consecutive 
Performance Evaluation Rating of ineffective or partially effective.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
29 
Each School District that adopts the State Model System may choose either of the 
following options: (1) to use the model appeal process that incorporates the use of a 
review panel; or (2) to develop its own distinctive appeal process that adheres to the 
requirements in section 5.4 (A) of these rules. 
In addition to meeting the requirements outlined in section 5.4 (A) of these rules, the 
Department’s model appeal process must include the following components. 
5.4 (B) (1) 
The review panel must serve in an advisory capacity to the 
superintendent. The superintendent must be the final decision-making authority 
in determining the teacher’s final Performance Evaluation Rating. 
5.4 (B) (2) 
The review panel must be comprised of members that were not directly 
involved in the evaluation process for the appealing teacher. The superintendent 
may appoint himself or herself to the review panel. 
5.4 (B) (3) 
Panel members must be selected and trained in a manner designed to 
ensure the credibility and expertise of the panel members. The panel must be 
comprised of equal numbers of teachers and administrators, with no more than 
six panel members total. A process must be developed to ensure continuity of 
the review panel members. 
5.4 (B) (4) 
The appealing teacher must be given the opportunity to address and 
provide evidence to the review panel in person or in writing. The review panel 
must review any written information provided by the appealing teacher prior to 
meeting to render a recommendation. 
5.4 (B) (5) 
The review panel may invite the teacher or teacher’s principal to present 
in person or in writing where clarification is necessary; however, the teacher and 
principal have the right of refusal without prejudice. 
5.4 (B) (6) 
To overturn a rating of ineffective or partially effective, in accordance with 
the board policy or collective bargaining agreement, the panel must unanimously 
find that the rating of ineffective or partially effective was inaccurate, with the 
potential for submission of a majority opinion to the superintendent if the panel is 
not able to reach unanimous consent. 
5.4 (C) Continuous Improvement. As a part of its review of local personnel evaluation systems 
and implementation of the State Model System, the Department must report on the role 
of the model system appeals process as a lever to ensure broader system accountability. 
Specifically, the Department must report on how the appeals process supports the 
following: 
5.4 (C) (1) 
early identification to teachers of any performance deficiencies, well in 
advance of a second consecutive Performance Evaluation Rating of partially 
effective or ineffective; 
5.4 (C) (2) 
the provision of targeted and timely opportunities, including resources 
and training, to teachers to address any identified areas of deficiency promptly 
after they receive an initial Performance Evaluation Rating of partially effective or 
ineffective and throughout the following school year; 
5.4 (C) (3) 
a process to ensure that effective teachers are not inappropriately rated 
as ineffective or partially effective; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
30 
5.4 (C) (4) 
the completion of performance evaluations only by individuals who have 
completed a Department-approved training in evaluation skills, as required by 
section 22-9-106(4)(a), C.R.S. 
5.5 
Appeals Process for Special Services Providers 
SSPs who receive a second consecutive Performance Evaluation Rating of ineffective or partially 
effective and who are not employed with a district or BOCES that provides the ability to earn non- 
probationary status may appeal their rating using the process described in section 5.4 of these 
rules. School districts and BOCES may choose to, and are not required to, provide this appeal 
process for SSPs who are employed with the ability to earn non-probationary status. 
6.0 
SUPPORTING IMPLEMENTATION OF REQUIREMENTS FOR LOCAL PERFORMANCE 
EVALUATION SYSTEMS: DUTIES AND POWERS OF COLORADO DEPARTMENT OF 
EDUCATION 
6.1 
Monitoring and Reporting on Implementation of Requirements for Local Evaluation 
Systems. The Department will monitor school districts’ and BOCES’ implementation of the 
requirements for local personnel evaluation systems as described in these rules and as otherwise 
required by federal or state statute and regulation. The intent of monitoring these systems is to 
understand whether they are implemented in a manner that provides educators with evaluations 
using multiple, fair, transparent, timely, rigorous, and valid methods and ensures that educators 
receive adequate feedback and professional development support to provide them a meaningful 
opportunity to improve their effectiveness. 
The Department will collect an assurance from each school district and BOCES no later than July 
1 of each year, indicating that the school district or BOCES is either implementing the State 
Model System or is implementing its own locally created personnel evaluation system that 
satisfies the requirements in section 5.1 of these rules. These assurances must be signed by the 
executive director of the BOCES or superintendent of the school district or their designated 
representative. 
Additional methods that the Department may use to monitor local personnel evaluation systems 
are (i) integrating information about evaluation systems into accountability and improvement 
efforts, including, if applicable, the school and district performance reports, required pursuant to 
section 22-11-503, C.R.S., and (ii) incorporating monitoring data into school and district Unified 
Improvement Plans. 
6.1 (A) School districts and BOCES must submit data, as requested by the Department, to allow 
said monitoring to occur and the Department will report this data on the website data 
portal. In order to report required data to the Department, school districts and BOCES 
must categorize all teachers they employ as a teacher of record and/or contributing 
professional, using the statewide definitions of those terms that are established by the 
Department. 
6.1 (B) School districts and BOCES must submit data, as requested by the Department, to allow 
the Department to monitor implementation of locally created personnel evaluation 
systems. The required data must allow the Department to conduct the analysis described 
in section 6.1(D) of these rules, including analysis of the Performance Evaluation Ratings 
assigned to each principal, teacher, and SSP and the performance results for principals, 
teachers, and SSPs on each of the applicable Quality Standards and Measures of 
Student Learning/Outcomes.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
31 
6.1 (C) The Department may only publicly report data related to Performance Evaluation Ratings 
in the aggregate at the school-, district- and state-level, and may not publicly report this 
data for cohorts smaller than five educators. 
6.1 (D) The Department will annually publish online the results of these monitoring efforts. At a 
minimum, monitoring efforts must focus on the following objectives and include the 
following analysis: 
6.1 (D) (1) 
Increasing the effectiveness of all educators, the progress of which may 
be evaluated using the following data: 
6.1 (D) (1) (a) 
the number of educators assigned to each Performance 
Evaluation Rating and how those numbers change over time; 
6.1 (D) (1) (b) 
information concerning teacher and principal retention, 
correlated with Performance Evaluation Ratings and reasons teachers 
and principals leave districts and schools; and 
6.1 (D) (1) (c) 
perception survey data of Colorado educators, parents and 
students. 
6.1 (D) (2) 
Analyze the correlation between student performance outcomes and the 
assignment of educators to Performance Evaluation Ratings, which may be 
evaluated using the following data: 
6.1 (D) (2) (a) 
student performance data for each public school and data 
concerning the number of educators at each public school assigned to 
each Performance Evaluation Rating; 
6.1 (D) (2) (b) 
student performance data, organized according to academic 
subjects and grades, and data concerning the number of educators 
assigned to each Performance Evaluation Rating, organized according to 
academic subjects and grades; 
6.1 (D) (2) (c) 
information concerning the distribution of educators assigned to 
each Performance Evaluation Rating within each public school and 
school district; 
6.1 (D) (2) (d) 
information concerning the correlation of Measures of Student 
Learning used and student performance on statewide summative 
assessments; and 
6.1 (D) (2) (e) 
information concerning performance results for educators on 
each of the Teacher Quality Standards and each of the Principal Quality 
Standards, and analysis of the correlation between results for individual 
educators on the Measures of Student Learning and the Professional 
Practice Quality Standards; 
6.1 (D) (3) 
Analyze the equitable distribution of effective and highly effective 
educators, which may be evaluated using the following data: 
6.1 (D) (3) (a) 
the number of educators assigned to each Performance 
Evaluation Rating, disaggregated by common course code, educator 
demographics, student demographics, and school demographics.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
32 
6.1 (D) (4) 
Analyze the extent to which principals and teachers understand how they 
are being evaluated, what they need to do to improve, and how to access 
resources they need to support their professional development, which may be 
evaluated using surveys, focus groups, and/or feedback received during 
trainings. 
6.1 (E) When data collected by the Department indicates that a school district or BOCES is 
unable to implement a local evaluation system that meets the objectives of the Licensed 
Personnel Performance Evaluation Act, section 22-9-101, C.R.S., et seq., the 
Department will conduct a more thorough review of the school districts’ or BOCES’ 
processes and procedures for its licensed personnel evaluation system to assure that the 
system is professional, sound, results in fair, adequate, and credible evaluation, satisfies 
the Quality Standards in a manner that is appropriate to the size, demographics, and 
location of the school district or BOCES, and is consistent with the purposes of article 9, 
title 22. 
Pursuant to section 22-11-206(4)(b), C.R.S., if the Department has reason to believe that 
a school district is not in substantial compliance with one or more of the statutory or 
regulatory requirements that applies to school districts, the Department must notify the 
local school board that it has ninety days after the date of notice to come into compliance. 
If, at the end of the ninety-day period, the Department finds that the school district is not 
substantially in compliance with the applicable statutory or regulatory requirements, the 
school district may be subject to the interventions specified in article 11 of title 22, 
Colorado Revised Statutes. 
6.2 
Evaluation and Continuous Improvement of the Statewide System to Evaluate the 
Effectiveness of Licensed Personnel 
The Department will use information obtained through monitoring and reporting efforts to identify 
opportunities for improvement. No later than July 1 of each year the State Board must review 
these rules (1 CCR 301-87) and using information from implementation of the State Model 
System and other local systems, determine whether to affirm or revise the rules in order to reflect 
what has been learned. 
7.0 
PARENT AND STUDENT PARTNERSHIP WITH TEACHERS AND PUBLIC SCHOOL 
ADMINISTRATORS 
7.1 
Parents and Guardians. Districts and schools must create systems and structures that focus on 
providing parents and guardians with meaningful opportunities to support the academic 
achievement and growth of their children. These systems and structures must proactively 
encourage and support: 
7.1 (A) high-quality and ongoing communication between parents/guardians and educators and 
schools using a variety of methods, such as various media, resources and languages; 
7.1 (B) involvements of parents/guardians in school and district leadership as currently 
supported by law and further identified through the implementation of local evaluation 
systems; and 
7.1 (C) the engagement of parent/guardian and community partnerships to ensure the successful 
implementation of the Principal, Teacher, and SSP Quality Standards.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-87 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
33 
7.2 
As appropriate, the Department will provide resources and technical assistance, through the 
online resource bank, to support districts in developing systems and structures that provide 
meaningful opportunities for parents/guardians to support the academic achievement and growth 
of their children. 
7.3 
The Department must encourage districts to monitor and measure the effectiveness of community 
and family involvement strategies and to use data gathered to inform system refinements. 
7.4 
Students. Districts are strongly encouraged to gather student perceptions of their learning 
experience in order to provide teachers with feedback on their performance. Where appropriate, 
districts are encouraged to use student perception data as part of the multiple measures used to 
evaluate teacher Professional Practice, described in section 5.1 (D) (6) of these rules. 
7.5 
Districts are strongly encouraged to gather student perceptions to provide principals with 
feedback on their performance. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor's Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 02/15/2012. 
Rules SB&P, 5.04 eff. 05/30/2012. 
Rules 0.0, 1.00, 4.00 eff. 01/30/2014. 
Entire rule eff. 08/14/2018. 
Entire rule eff. 05/30/2019. 
Entire rule eff. 06/30/2023.
