---
id: "1_CCR_301-111"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1 CCR 301-111"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=10498&fileName=1%20CCR%20301-111&type=pdf"
---

#### 1_CCR_301-111. 1 CCR 301-111

1 
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
Colorado State Board of Education 
RULES FOR THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE SCHOOL LEADERSHIP PROGRAM 
1 CCR 301-111 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
1.00 
STATEMENT OF BASIS AND PURPOSE 
Section 22-13-201, et seq. C.R.S., creates the School Leadership Program. The program provides 
embedded, experiential professional development to a cohort of school principals to improve the quality of 
school principals and empower them to exercise distributive and collaborative leadership that supports 
collaboration among the professional educators in the building. Pursuant to statute, the Colorado 
Department of Education designs and implements the program. 
The statutory authority for these rules is found in section 22-13-203(3), C.R.S., which requires the State 
Board to adopt rules regarding time frames, procedures, and content for program applications. 
2.0 
DEFINITIONS 
2.1 
“Department” means the Department of Education created and existing pursuant to section 24-1- 
115, C.R.S. 
2.2 
“Program” means the School Leadership Program created in section 22-13-203, C.R.S. 
2.3 
“Public school” means a school that derives its support, in whole or in part, from money raised by 
a general state or school district tax and includes a school of a school district, a public school 
operated by a board of cooperative services, and an institute charter school authorized by the 
State Charter School Institute pursuant to part 5 of Article 30.5 of Title 22. 
2.4 
“School principal” means an individual who is employed as the chief administrative officer of a 
public elementary, middle, or high school in Colorado. 
2.5 
“State Board” means the state board of education created in Section 1 of Article IX of the State 
Constitution. 
3.0 
APPLICATIONS 
School principals who seek to receive training through the program must submit an application to the 
Department. 
3.1 
Application timeline 
3.01(1) The Department will make the application form available to applicants by June 30th each year. 
3.01(2) Applications must be submitted to the Department by August 15th each year. 
3.01(3) The Department will notify all applicants as to whether they have been selected to receive 
professional development through the program no later than August 31st annually.. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-111 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
2 
3.2 
Application contents 
3.02(1) The Department will develop a program application form. Each application must specify: 
3.02(1)(a) 
Applicant name 
3.02(1)(b) 
Race 
3.02(1)(c) 
Gender 
3.02(1)(d) 
School at which the applicant serves as a school principal 
3.02(1)(e) 
School level and type (e.g. elementary, K-8, middle, high, Alternative Education 
Campus) 
3.02(1)(f) 
District in which applicant is employed 
3.02(1)(g) 
Years of school leadership experience 
3.02(1)(h) 
District setting (urban, suburban, rural) as determined by the Department and 
outlined in the application materials 
3.02(1)(i) 
School Performance Framework rating for school at which the applicant serves 
as a school principal 
3.02(2) In addition to the information in Rule 3.02(1), each application must include open-ended 
questions developed by the Department, which address school leadership topics, including but 
not limited to: 
3.02(2)(a) 
Cohort learning 
3.02(2)(b) 
Positive climate and culture 
3.02(2)(c) 
Distributive leadership 
3.02(2)(d) 
Daily workload and priorities 
3.02(2)(e) 
Increased student academic outcomes 
3.02(2)(e)(i) 
For elementary or K-8 school principals, increased student academic 
outcomes in reading proficiency 
3.02(2)(f) 
Teacher retention 
3.02(2)(g) 
Self-reflection and feedback 
3.02(3) Documented evidence that the applicant’s employer and building staff support the applicant’s 
participation in the School Leadership Program. 
 
 
_________________________________________________________________________

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-111 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
3 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 04/01/2020. 
Entire rule eff. 11/30/2022.
