---
id: "1_CCR_211-2"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1 CCR 211-2"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12554&fileName=1%20CCR%20211-2&type=pdf"
---

#### 1_CCR_211-2. 1 CCR 211-2

1 
Department of Revenue 
Hearings Division 
RULES FOR HEARINGS RELATED TO DRIVER’S LICENSES OR STATE ISSUED 
IDENTIFICATION CARDS 
1 CCR 211-2 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
RULE 1. 
DEFINITIONS 
Basis and Purpose: The statutory authority for this rule includes, but is not limited to, 
§§ 24-1-107, 24-1-117, 24-35-103, 42-1-102(24), 42-1-201, 42-1-204, 42-2-126, and 
more generally, Article 1 Parts 1 and 2, Article 2 Parts 1 through 5, and Article 7 of Title 
42, C.R.S. The purpose of this rule is to define certain words and terms of art used in 
these Rules and the administrative proceedings held by the Colorado Department of 
Revenue’s Hearings Division regarding driver’s licenses or state issued identification 
cards. 
A. 
“Department” - The Colorado Department of Revenue. 
B. 
“Division” - The Colorado Department of Revenue Hearings Division. 
C. 
“Hearing Officer” - An authorized representative of the Executive Director of the 
Department, with the statutory authority to conduct hearings pursuant to Titles 24 
and 42, C.R.S. 
D. 
“Hearing Record” - All matters constituting the record on which a decision was 
based, including, but not limited to, rulings on proposed findings and conclusions, 
electronic recordings, evidence presented at hearing, and any other exceptions 
or briefs. 
E. 
“Other Electronic Means” - The video conferencing platform designated by the 
Division for the purpose of conducting hearings. 
F. 
“Respondent” - The person whose driving privilege and/or identification 
document is the subject of the hearing. 
G. 
“Restraint” or “Driver’s License Restraint” - Any cancellation, denial, revocation, 
or suspension of a person’s license or driving privilege, or the denial of an 
identification document. 
H. 
“60-day deadline” - The time limitation for holding hearings established by §§ 42-
2-126(8)(a), 42-2-127.7(7)(e)(I), and 42-2-127.9(6)(e)(I), C.R.S. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 211-2 
Hearings Division 
 
2 
RULE 2. 
HEARING OFFICER AUTHORITY 
Basis and Purpose: The statutory authority for this rule includes, but is not limited to, 
§§ 24-1-107, 24-1-117, 24-35-103, 42-1-102(24), 42-1-201, 42-1-204, 42-2-126, and 
more generally, Article 1 Parts 1 and 2, Article 2 Parts 1 through 5, and Article 7 of Title 
42, C.R.S. The purpose of this rule is to describe the authority of the Division’s Hearing 
Officers to conduct hearings, manage cases, and issue decisions in administrative 
proceedings regarding driver’s licenses or state issued identification cards. 
A. 
In addition to any other powers authorized by Statute, the Hearing Officer shall 
have the authority to: 
1. 
Conduct a full, fair, and impartial hearing; 
2. 
Act to avoid unnecessary delay in the proceeding; 
3. 
Maintain order; 
4. 
Administer oaths for the purpose of obtaining testimony; 
5. 
Rule on matters of evidence and law; 
6. 
Issue orders relating to hearing and pre-hearing matters; 
7. 
Limit irrelevant, immaterial, and unduly repetitious testimony and 
reasonably limit the time for presentations; 
8. 
Rule on motions of parties or the Hearing Officer’s own motion; 
9. 
Issue final agency actions. As provided by statute, such decisions may not 
be reviewed at the Division or Department level but are subject to appeal 
in District Court; and 
10. 
Request parties to submit legal memoranda. 
RULE 3. 
EVIDENCE 
Basis and Purpose: The statutory authority for this rule includes, but is not limited to, 
§§ 24-1-107, 24-1-117, 24-35-103, 42-1-102(24), 42-1-201, 42-1-204, 42-2-126, and 
more generally, Article 1 Parts 1 and 2, Article 2 Parts 1 through 5, and Article 7 of Title 
42, C.R.S. The purpose of this rule is to describe the procedure for the discovery and 
admission of evidence in administrative proceedings before the Division regarding 
driver’s licenses or state issued identification cards. 
A. 
Discovery is prohibited except as set forth in these Rules. However, the 
Respondent shall have access to information maintained by the Department to 
the extent permitted by law.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 211-2 
Hearings Division 
 
3 
B. 
The Respondent or any other witness may testify and present evidence on 
pertinent issues. 
C. 
The Hearing Officer may exclude irrelevant, repetitious, cumulative, immaterial, 
or privileged information or evidence. 
D. 
The Hearing Officer may apply the Colorado Rules of Evidence, as necessary, 
and may consider hearsay evidence per § 24-4-105(7), C.R.S. 
1. 
Incorporation by Reference. The Colorado Rules of Evidence incorporated 
by reference in Rule 3(D) include only the version that was in effect as of 
July 2023, and do not include any later amendments or editions. The 
Colorado Rules of Evidence are available for public inspection during 
regular business hours at the Office of the Hearings Division of the 
Department of Revenue, 1707 Cole Boulevard, Suite 300, Golden, 
Colorado 80401. The Colorado Rules of Evidence are also available for a 
reasonable charge from the Hearings Division at this same address, and 
free of charge from the Hearings Division’s website. 
E. 
The Hearing Officer may question the Respondent and/or any other witnesses. 
F. 
The Hearing Officer may consider and receive real or documentary evidence, 
whether originals, photocopies, or excerpts, and including, but not limited to, 
driving records, proof of insurance, proof of residency, body camera videos, dash 
camera videos, paychecks, court documents, accident reports, state or federal 
regulations, code books, training manuals, scientific studies, maps, photographs, 
and satellite images. 
G. 
If practicable and necessary, the Hearing Officer may continue a hearing in order 
to subpoena any witness or document relevant to the proceeding. 
RULE 4. 
EXHIBITS 
Basis and Purpose: The statutory authority for this rule includes, but is not limited to, 
§§ 24-1-107, 24-1-117, 24-35-103, 42-1-201, 42-1-204, 42-2-126, and more generally, 
Article 1 Parts 1 and 2, Article 2 Parts 1 through 5, and Article 7 of Title 42, C.R.S. The 
purpose of this rule is to describe the formatting, presentation, and retention 
requirements for exhibits offered for admission into the evidentiary record in 
administrative proceedings before the Division regarding driver’s licenses or state 
issued identification cards. This rule also describes Hearing Officer discretion to exclude 
bulky, dangerous, and/or otherwise unsuitable evidence. 
A. 
Documents offered into evidence shall be legible and shall not exceed 8 ½ 
inches by 11 inches unless good cause is shown why such documents cannot be 
reduced. Exhibits from the Department will be lettered (i.e., Ex. A, Ex. B, Ex. C…) 
and exhibits from Respondent will be numbered (i.e., Ex. 1, Ex. 2, Ex. 3…).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 211-2 
Hearings Division 
 
4 
B. 
Exhibits offered into evidence shall not be of such a nature that they unduly 
encumber the record. Physical evidence that is bulky, dangerous, perishable, or 
otherwise not suitable for inclusion in the record shall be limited or excluded from 
the record at the discretion of the Hearing Officer. 
C. 
A table of contents or index shall accompany any document when such 
document exceeds 50 pages. 
D. 
All exhibits entered into evidence shall become a part of the record of the 
hearing, and where practicable, shall be subsequently maintained by the 
Department; however, the Hearing Officer may require the Respondent to 
maintain the original of any exhibit for the purposes of appeal. 
RULE 5. 
SUBPOENAS 
Basis and Purpose: The statutory authority for this rule includes, but is not limited to, 
§§ 24-1-107, 24-1-117, 24-35-103, 24-35-116, 42-1-102(24), 42-1-201, 42-1-204, 42-2-
126, and more generally, Article 1 Parts 1 and 2, Article 2 Parts 1 through 5, and Article 
7 of Title 42, C.R.S. The purpose of this rule is to describe the procedure for requesting, 
issuing, serving, enforcing, and opposing subpoenas in administrative proceedings 
before the Division regarding driver’s licenses or state issued identification cards. 
A. 
Respondent in a hearing before the Division may request subpoenas to compel 
the presence of witnesses or production of documents necessary for the hearing. 
Subpoenas of witnesses and documents must directly relate to the subject matter 
of the hearing and will not be issued to further the discovery needs of the 
Respondent in other proceedings. 
B. 
Information about how to request a subpoena can be found on the Hearings 
Division’s website. 
C. 
All subpoena requests must be made on a “Request for Subpoena” form 
authorized and provided by the Division. No subpoena will be issued unless the 
request contains the following information: 
1. 
Name of Respondent; 
2. 
Case number; 
3. 
Date of hearing; 
4. 
Location of hearing, or telephone number for telephone check-in; 
5. 
Time of hearing; 
6. 
Name of witness to be subpoenaed; and 
7. 
Address of witness (home or business).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 211-2 
Hearings Division 
 
5 
D. 
A request for a subpoena duces tecum must specifically identify each document 
to be produced. 
E. 
Any subpoena (excluding that for the officer who signed the Affidavit and Notice 
of Revocation for hearings under § 42-2-126, C.R.S.) must also include a specific 
and detailed statement attached to the request form that indicates the following: 
1. 
The nature of the expected testimony or evidence; 
2. 
The reasons the testimony or evidence is relevant necessary, and not 
cumulative to other evidence; 
3. 
The reasons why the production of the evidence is not unduly 
burdensome on the entity or witness subpoenaed; 
4. 
The reasons why compliance with the subpoena will not unreasonably 
delay or prolong the proceedings; and 
5. 
That the evidence sought is not otherwise available to the Hearing Officer. 
F. 
When multiple witnesses or documents are requested for a single hearing, the 
supporting statements must clearly identify the reason each witness or document 
is necessary, and the reason the evidence sought is not cumulative. 
G. 
Every request for a subpoena shall be signed by the Respondent or the 
Respondent’s attorney. This signature constitutes an affirmation that the request 
complies with C.R.C.P. 45. This signature also certifies that to the best of the 
signer’s knowledge, information, and belief the request is consistent with these 
Rules, warranted by the law, not made for any improper purpose, and will not be 
unreasonable, unduly burdensome or expensive. Any unsigned request will be 
denied. 
1. 
Incorporation by Reference. C.R.C.P. 45 incorporated by reference in 
Rule 5(G) includes only the version that was in effect as of July 2023, and 
does not include any later amendments or editions. C.R.C.P. 45 is 
available for public inspection during regular business hours at the Office 
of the Hearings Division of the Department of Revenue, 1707 Cole 
Boulevard, Suite 300, Golden, Colorado 80401. C.R.C.P. 45 is also 
available for a reasonable charge from the Hearings Division at this same 
address, and free of charge from the Hearings Division’s website. 
H. 
Issuance 
1. 
A subpoena will be issued only upon a determination by the reviewing 
Hearing Officer that:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 211-2 
Hearings Division 
 
6 
a. 
The information to be obtained appears to be relevant and 
necessary to the issues involved in the hearing, and is not 
cumulative; 
b. 
Such discovery shall not in any way unreasonably delay or prolong 
the proceedings; 
c. 
The subpoena can be served within the time period established by 
rule or statute; 
d. 
The information sought can reasonably be provided by the date 
required on the subpoena; and 
e. 
The information requested is not otherwise attainable by the date 
set for the hearing. 
2. 
If the statement in support of a subpoena request is insufficient to meet 
the criteria specified by this Rule, it shall be returned to the requesting 
party for revision. 
3. 
If the reviewing Hearing Officer denies issuance of the subpoena, 
or alters the subpoena in any material way, specific findings and 
reasons for such denial or alteration must be made on the record, 
or by written order incorporated into the record. This review process 
may include communication with the requesting party. 
4. 
When expert testimony or documents are requested by subpoena, 
any such expert shall be entitled to reasonable fees for compliance 
with the request. The Respondent shall have the burden of paying 
such fees within 48 hours of service of the subpoena. If the amount 
of the fees is in dispute, the reviewing Hearing Officer shall hear the 
issue and make a final determination. 
I. 
Service 
1. 
Service of the subpoena is the duty of the party requesting the subpoena. 
Service shall be made pursuant to the requirements of C.R.C.P. 45(b), or 
as otherwise set forth in these Rules. 
2. 
Witness and mileage fees shall be tendered at the time of service 
consistent with C.R.C.P. 45(b), except as otherwise set forth in these 
Rules. 
a. 
Incorporation by Reference. C.R.C.P. 45(b) incorporated by 
reference in Rules 5(I)(1) and (2) includes only the version that was 
in effect as of July 2023, and does not include any later 
amendments or editions. C.R.C.P. 45(b) is available for public 
inspection during regular business hours at the Office of the

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 211-2 
Hearings Division 
 
7 
Hearings Division of the Department of Revenue, 1707 Cole 
Boulevard, Suite 300, Golden, Colorado 80401. C.R.C.P. 45(b) is 
also available for a reasonable charge from the Hearings Division 
at this same address, and free of charge from the Hearings 
Division’s website. 
3. 
For cases under §§ 42-2-126 42-2-127.7, and 42-2-127.9 C.R.S., 
subpoenas for law enforcement officers must be served at least five (5) 
calendar days prior to the start date and time of the hearing; all other 
subpoenas must be served at least 48 hours prior to the hearing. 
4. 
Proof of Service is acceptable if the form incorporated within the subpoena 
issued by the Hearing Officer is fully completed, or an affidavit containing 
that same information and the case number, time, date, and location of the 
hearing is provided. Any affidavit of service must contain sufficient 
information, including the name and contact information for the witness, to 
match it to the corresponding subpoena. 
J. 
Enforcement of Subpoenas 
1. 
Quash by Request Prior to Hearing 
a. 
Any subpoenaed witness, entity, or custodian of documents may 
request that a subpoena be quashed. Any request shall be treated 
as a motion to quash. 
b. 
A motion to quash may be granted if the reviewing Hearing Officer 
finds that, contrary to the Respondent’s statements, compliance 
would be unduly burdensome or impracticable, unreasonably 
expensive, or require disclosure of privileged or other protected 
materials. 
c. 
If a motion to quash is granted, the witness, entity, or custodian of 
documents may be entitled to reimbursement from the Respondent 
for any reasonable attorney fees or costs associated with the 
motion to quash. 
d. 
If a motion to quash is denied, but the reviewing Hearing Officer 
finds that compliance with the subpoena will be unreasonably 
expensive, the Respondent may be ordered to pay the costs of 
production. 
2. 
Dismissal of Case at Hearing 
a. 
If the Hearing Officer deems that the non-appearance of a witness 
and/or failure to produce documents substantially impairs the right 
of the Respondent to present a defense, and that the subpoena

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 211-2 
Hearings Division 
 
8 
was properly served, the Hearing Officer shall have the authority to 
dismiss the case with prejudice. 
b. 
Failure of the police officer who signed the Affidavit and Notice of 
Revocation pursuant to § 42-2-126, C.R.S. to appear after proper 
service of the subpoena, for reasons other than events authorized 
by statute, shall result in dismissal of the case with prejudice. 
3. 
Quash by Hearing Officer at Hearing 
a. 
If a properly served witness (including law enforcement officer(s) 
who did not sign the Affidavit and Notice of Revocation pursuant to 
§ 42-2-126, C.R.S.) fails to appear or to provide required 
documentation, the presiding Hearing Officer shall require an offer 
of proof from the Respondent as to the specific nature, content, and 
relevance of the expected testimony or documentation. 
b. 
If the presiding Hearing Officer finds that the appearance of the 
subpoenaed witness, and/or production of documents, would not 
provide relevant and necessary information, or that the evidence 
would be needlessly cumulative, the Hearing Officer may quash the 
subpoena. NOTE: The reviewing Hearing Officer’s determination to 
issue a subpoena is not binding upon the presiding Hearing Officer 
and does not preempt their authority to assess the propriety of 
enforcing the subpoena. 
4. 
Reschedule by Hearing Officer at Hearing 
a. 
If a witness fails to appear after proper service of a subpoena the 
presiding Hearing Officer may, if practicable and necessary, seek to 
reschedule the hearing to allow the Respondent additional 
opportunity to have the witness appear. NOTE: Rescheduling for 
this limited purpose does not waive jurisdictional limits. 
RULE 6. 
CONDUCT AND DECORUM 
Basis and Purpose: The statutory authority for this rule includes, but is not limited to, 
§§ 24-1-107, 24-1-117, 24-35-103, 42-1-102(24), 42-1-201, 42-1-204, 42-2-126, and 
more generally, Article 1 Parts 1 and 2, Article 2 Parts 1 through 5, and Article 7 of Title 
42, C.R.S. The purpose of this rule is to describe the conduct and decorum required for 
all parties or other persons attending a hearing in an administrative proceeding before 
the Division regarding driver’s licenses or state issued identification cards. This rule also 
describes Hearing Officer discretion to enforce these guidelines and order additional 
ones. 
A. 
Unless otherwise prohibited by law, all proceedings before the Division are open 
to the public.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 211-2 
Hearings Division 
 
9 
B. 
Parties, representatives, and other attendees shall conduct themselves with 
dignity, shall show courtesy and respect for one another and for the Hearing 
Officer, and shall follow any additional guidelines of decorum ordered by the 
Hearing Officer in the proceeding; attorneys must comply with the Colorado 
Rules of Professional Conduct. 
1. 
Incorporation by Reference. The Colorado Rules of Professional Conduct 
are incorporated by reference in Rule 6(B) include only the version that 
was in effect as of July 2023, and do not include any later amendments or 
editions. The Colorado Rules of Professional Conduct are available for 
public inspection during regular business hours at the Office of the 
Hearings Division of the Department of Revenue, 1707 Cole Boulevard, 
Suite 300, Golden, Colorado 80401. The Colorado Rules of Professional 
Conduct are also available for a reasonable charge from the Hearings 
Division at this same address, and free of charge from the Hearings 
Division’s website. 
C. 
To ensure proper conduct, decorum, judicial efficiency, and orderly progress of 
the hearing, the Hearing Officer may take appropriate action, including but not 
limited to: 
1. 
Excluding any person or persons from the hearing; 
2. 
Recessing the hearing; or 
3. 
Sequestering one or more witnesses upon a motion by a party or the 
Hearing Officer’s own motion. 
D. 
The Hearing Officer may restrict attendance due to the physical limitations of the 
hearing facility. Media access may be limited as provided by the Colorado Code 
of Judicial Conduct and the Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure. 
1. 
Incorporation by Reference. The Colorado Code of Judicial Conduct and 
the Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure are incorporated by reference in 
Rule 6(D) include only the version that was in effect as of July 2023, and 
do not include any later amendments or editions. The Colorado Code of 
Judicial Conduct and the Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure are available 
for public inspection during regular business hours at the Office of the 
Hearings Division of the Department of Revenue, 1707 Cole Boulevard, 
Suite 300, Golden, Colorado 80401. The Colorado Code of Judicial 
Conduct and the Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure are also available for 
a reasonable charge from the Hearings Division at this same address, and 
free of charge from the Hearings Division’s website.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 211-2 
Hearings Division 
 
10 
RULE 7. 
SCHEDULING HEARINGS CONDUCTED PURSUANT TO TITLE 42 OF 
THE COLORADO REVISED STATUTES BY TELEPHONE OR OTHER ELECTRONIC 
MEANS 
Basis and Purpose: The statutory authority for this rule includes, but is not limited to, 
§§ 24-1-107, 24-1-117, 24-35-103, 42-1-102(24), 42-1-201, 42-1-204, 42-2-126, and 
more generally, Article 1 Parts 1 and 2, Article 2 Parts 1 through 5, and Article 7 of Title 
42, C.R.S. The purpose of this rule is to establish telephonic or electronic hearings as 
the default for administrative proceedings before the Division regarding driver’s licenses 
or state issued identification cards, and to describe the procedure to request in person 
hearings. 
A. 
Telephonic or Electronic Hearings 
1. 
Unless otherwise requested and ordered by the Division, all hearings 
conducted by the Division shall be held by telephone or other electronic 
means. 
2. 
Information about how to request a hearing can be found on the Hearings 
Division website. 
B. 
Requests for In Person Hearings 
1. 
Respondents may request to appear in person for an electronic hearing. 
Such requests will be granted or denied on a case-by-case basis. The 
Division may consider safety issues, the availability of Hearing Officers 
and other participants, the availability of hearing rooms, and any other 
relevant factor in determining whether to grant the request. 
C. 
Restraint Effective Dates and Waiver 
1. 
Hearings for Restraints taken pursuant to § 42-2-122, C.R.S. will 
not be scheduled more than 30 days after the date of the Restraint, 
and late hearing requests will not be granted. Hearings requested 
after the 15th day after the notice of cancellation must be 
scheduled as soon as practicable to ensure compliance with these 
statutes. 
2. 
A Respondent requesting a hearing may waive a statutorily 
required notice period and request the hearing be scheduled as 
soon as practicable. Any waiver of statutory notice requirements 
must be documented by Hearings Division staff. 
3. 
A Respondent’s request for a hearing will not change the effective 
date of the Restraint taken by the Division of Motor Vehicles, unless 
otherwise specified by statute.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 211-2 
Hearings Division 
 
11 
RULE 8. 
RESCHEDULING HEARINGS 
Basis and Purpose: The statutory authority for this rule includes, but is not limited to, 
§§ 24-1-107, 24-1-117, 24-35-103, 42-1-102(24), 42-1-201, 42-1-204, 42-2-126, and 
more generally, Article 1 Parts 1 and 2, Article 2 Parts 1 through 5, and Article 7 of Title 
42, C.R.S. The purpose of this rule is to describe the procedure for rescheduling 
hearings set in administrative proceedings before the Division regarding driver’s 
licenses or state issued identification cards. 
A. 
Rescheduling or Continuing Hearings Pursuant to § 42-2-127 (Points), C.R.S. 
1. 
A respondent may request a hearing be rescheduled or continued for 
good cause shown. Good cause shall include personal illness, or any 
other circumstance which, in the Department’s discretion, constitutes 
sufficient reason for delay. The Hearings Division shall schedule a new 
date no later than 60 days after the original hearing date. 
2. 
If Respondent fails to appear for a hearing, the Hearing Officer shall 
determine if notice was proper pursuant to § 42-2-127(8)(a), C.R.S. If the 
record does not support a suspension, the Hearing Officer may dismiss 
the action. If notice was not proper, the hearing shall be rescheduled. If 
notice was proper and the record supports a suspension of Respondent’s 
driving privileges, the Hearing Officer shall enter an order. 
B. 
Rescheduling or Continuing All Other Hearings Pursuant to Title 42, C.R.S., 
except those hearings under §§ 42-2-126 (Express Consent), 42-2-127.7 
(Administrative Insurance Revocation), and 42-2-127.9 (Hit and Run), C.R.S. 
1. 
Prior to or on the date of the hearing, the Respondent may request in 
writing that a hearing be rescheduled or continued for good cause shown. 
2. 
If the Respondent fails to appear for a hearing, the Hearing Officer will 
close the case without a hearing except for hearings held pursuant to § 
42-2-127.7, C.R.S. and any third-party subrogation hearing held pursuant 
to §§ 42-7-301, C.R.S., et seq. Any active or pending Restraint shall 
remain in effect.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 211-2 
Hearings Division 
 
12 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 03/04/2007. 
Entire rule eff. 05/30/2009. 
Entire rule eff. 11/29/2023. 
Rules 1 D, 3 D.1, 5 B, 5 G, 5 I.2.a, 5 I.3, 6 B.1, 6 D.1, 7, 8 eff. 05/30/2026.
