---
id: "1_CCR_301-10"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1 CCR 301-10"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=8664&fileName=1%20CCR%20301-10&type=pdf"
---

#### 1_CCR_301-10. 1 CCR 301-10

1 
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
Colorado State Board of Education 
RULES FOR THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY ACT 
EXCELLENCE AWARD PROGRAM 
1 CCR 301-10 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
2224-R-1.00 
Statement of Basis and Purpose 
These rules are promulgated pursuant to section 22-24-107, C.R.S., which establishes the English 
Language Proficiency Act Excellence Award Program to award grants to local education providers and 
charter schools that achieve the highest English language and academic growth among English language 
learners and the highest academic achievement for English language learners who transition out of the 
English language proficiency program. 
2224-R-2.00 
Definitions 
2.00 (1) “Charter school” means a charter school authorized by a district pursuant to part 1 of article 30.5 
of this title or an institute charter school authorized by the state charter school institute pursuant 
to part 5 of article 30.5 of title 22. 
2.00 (2) “Department” means the Colorado Department of Education. 
2.00 (3) “District” means a school district organized and existing pursuant to article 30 of title 22 or a 
board of cooperative services organized and existing pursuant to article 5 of this title. 
2.00 (3) “English language learner” means a student who is linguistically diverse and who is identified 
pursuant to section 22-24-105(2), C.R.S. as having a level of English language proficiency that 
requires language support to achieve standards in grade-level content in English. 
2.00 (4) “English language proficiency program” means a program implemented by a local education 
provider that is designed to develop English language proficiency for an English language learner 
while enabling the English language learner to achieve and maintain grade-level performance in 
academic content areas. 
2.00 (5) “Local education provider” means a district, the state charter school institute, or an approved 
facility school, as defined in section 22-2-402(1), C.R.S. 
2.00 (6) “State charter school institute” means the state charter school institute created pursuant to part 5 
of article 30.5 of title 22. 
2224-R-3.00 
The English Language Proficiency Act Excellence Award Program 
3.00 
(1) 
Award Timeline 
By December 1 of each year, when data and appropriations are available, the Department will identify the 
local education providers and charter schools that achieve the highest English language and academic 
growth among English language learners and that achieve the highest academic achievement for English 
language learners who transition out of the English language proficiency program. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-10 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
2 
3.00 
(2) 
Award Procedures 
The Department will develop and provide an application for funds to local education providers and charter 
schools that qualify for the excellence award grant. The application will request contact information and 
an agreement to program reporting requirements detailed in section 4.00 (5) of the English Language 
Proficiency Act Excellence Award Program Rules. 
3.00 
(3) 
Criteria to Identify Highest Academic Growth 
All eligible local educator providers and charter schools accepting award will be in compliance with all 
state and federal legal requirements, unless they have received an exception to the requirements. The 
following criteria will be used by the Department to identify the local education providers and charter 
schools that achieve the highest English language and academic growth among English language 
learners in an English language proficiency program and that achieve the highest academic achievement 
for English language learners who transition out of an English language proficiency program: 
3.00 
(3) 
(a) 
High growth percentiles on the state’s English language proficiency assessment 
for English language learners in an English language proficiency program; 
3.00 
(3) 
(b) 
High growth percentiles on the state’s academic content assessments for English 
language arts and math for English language learners in an English language proficiency 
program, as described in section 22-7-1006.3, C.R.S.; and 
3.00 
(3) 
(c) 
High percentages of students who meet or exceed expectations on the state 
content assessments on the state content assessments for English language arts and math (and, 
when available, science and social studies) for English language learners who have transitioned 
out of an English language proficiency program, as described in section 22-7-1006.3, C.R.S. 
3.00 
(4) 
Duration and Amount of Grant Awards. 
Subject to available appropriations, the Department will award grants to local education providers and 
charter schools pursuant to the English Language Proficiency Act Excellence Award Program. The 
amount of the grant award will be based on the student enrollment of the local education providers and 
charter schools receiving the award and the concentration of English language learners enrolled by the 
local education provider and charter schools as a percentage of the total student enrollment. Each grant 
will have a term of one fiscal year. 
3.00 
(5) 
Reporting 
3.00 
(5) 
(a) 
Each local education provider and charter school that receives a grant pursuant 
to this section, at the conclusion of each school year for which it receives a grant, must submit to 
the Department: 
(i) 
A data analysis and summary of the local education provider’s or charter school’s English 
language proficiency program; and 
(ii) 
A report of the local education provider’s or charter school’s use of the grant moneys 
received. 
3.00 
(5) 
(b) 
The Department will provide the information received pursuant to section 22-24-
107(3)(a), C.R.S. to local education providers and will make the information available to the public 
through the data portal operated pursuant to section 22-11-502, C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-10 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
3 
_______________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule emer. rule eff. 09/10/2014; expired 01/08/2015. 
Entire rule eff. 01/30/2015. 
Rules 2224-R-3.00 (3), 2224-R-3.00 (4) eff. 09/30/2018. 
Entire rule eff. 04/30/2020.
