---
id: "1_CCR_103-2"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1 CCR 103-2"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=9269&fileName=1%20CCR%20103-2&type=pdf"
---

#### 1_CCR_103-2. 1 CCR 103-2

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL AND ADMINISTRATION 
Division of Central Services 
CAPITOL COMPLEX PARKING RULES 
1 CCR 103-2 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Preamble 
Unless otherwise noted in a specific provision, the Division of Central Services Capitol Complex Parking 
Rules were adopted and made effective by the Executive Director on October 28, 2005. 
This version reflects rulemaking by the Executive Director of the Department of Administration as follows: 
to modify Rule 1.1 regarding bicycle lockers, modify Rule 3.1 terminology, modify Rule 4.1 regarding 
Capitol Circle space allocation, modify Rule 4.8 regarding “sublease”, add Rule 4.9 regarding subleasing 
parking spaces, modify Rule 4.10 numbering, modify Rule 4.11 numbering, modify Rule 6.1 (b) to annual, 
modify Rule 7.1 strike if “if required” and terminology, modify Rule 7.2 regarding charges and added 
7.2.1, modify 9.2 regarding personal check payee and charges, modify Rule 9.3 regarding court fee 
amount, modify Rule 9.4 numbering and regarding collections information. 
1.0 
Generally 
1.1 
The Department of Personnel & Administration (DPA), Division of Central Services, is responsible 
for the management, maintenance, and administration, including the establishment of rules, 
regulations, rental fees, and charges, regarding all State-owned parking facilities in the Capitol 
Complex, including: 
• 
State Capitol circle drive at 201 E. Colfax Avenue 
• 
Parking structure at 1350 Lincoln Street 
• 
Parking lot at 1325 Sherman Street 
• 
Parking lot at 1520 Lincoln Street (including alley) 
• 
Parking lot at 1530 Sherman Street 
• 
Parking lot at 1570 Grant Street 
• 
Any other parking lots or facilities within the Capitol Complex. 
• 
Bicycle locker parking at 1525 Sherman or any other facilities within the Capitol Complex 
1.2 
The State-owned parking facilities at 690/700 Kipling Boulevard, 1881 Pierce Street, 1001 E. 
62nd Avenue, 780 Grant Street, and the State Office Building in Grand Junction also shall be 
managed by DPA pursuant to these rules, except that rules 5, 6, 8, and 9 shall not apply. All other 
State-owned parking facilities shall be managed by the primary agency using the facility, and 
shall not be subject to these rules. 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 103-2 
Division of Central Services 
 
2 
2.0 
Definitions 
2.1 
“Agency space” means a location assigned to a state agency or institution for the placement of 
agency fleet vehicles. Agency spaces may not be used for the placement of personally-owned 
vehicles, or issued by agencies for use by individual employees. 
2.2 
“Assignee” means an agency or individual state employee who has been assigned a parking 
space. 
2.3 
“Capitol Complex” means the area encompassing state-owned buildings and grounds within the 
area bounded by 16th Avenue, Broadway, 11th Avenue, and Logan Street in the City and County 
of Denver. 
2.4 
“Carpooler” means a person registered as a driver or passenger in a carpool or vanpool, and 
working in the Downtown Denver Area. 
2.5 
“Downtown Denver Area” means the area within a 1.2 mile radius of the Colorado State Capitol 
Building. 
2.6 
“Individual space” means a location assigned to a particular state employee for his or her 
personal use. 
2.7 
“Waiting list” means those employees who have applied for, but not yet received, individual 
parking spaces in a State-owned parking facility. 
3.0 
Applications 
3.1 
The head of each state agency or institution, or their delegate, may request in writing agency 
spaces to be used for agency fleet vehicles, in accordance with rule 2.1. 
3.2 
Any state employee who works at least half-time may apply for an individual space using the 
approved form. It is an employee’s continuing responsibility, while either on the waiting list or 
assigned a parking space, to update the contact and/or vehicle information by submitting a 
Parking Information Update Form to the Capitol Parking Authority within five (5) working days of 
any change. 
4.0 
Assignments 
4.1 
Spaces in the State Capitol circle drive are allocated by joint resolution of the General Assembly 
pursuant to § 2-2-321, C.R.S. Authorized individuals parking in the State Capitol circle drive shall 
not be subject to rule 3. 
4.2 
All parking spaces other than those allocated in accordance with rule 4.1 shall be allocated by 
DPA pursuant to § 24-82-103, C.R.S. If an employee is offered a space but declines, the 
employee will be moved to the end of the waiting list. 4.3 Heads of principal departments shall 
each be provided one space in the Lincoln Street parking structure without charge. Additional 
spaces will be provided in accordance with rule 3.1 and billed for in accordance with rule 5.2. 
4.4 
An employee requesting disabled access parking must provide a copy of either the disabled 
access permit card issued by the Division of Motor Vehicles, or the registration showing that the 
vehicle has disabled access license plates.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 103-2 
Division of Central Services 
 
3 
4.5 
Motorcycles and scooters may be parked in the Lincoln Street parking structure and the parking 
lot at 1325 Sherman Street. Another type of vehicle, such as a car or truck, may not be parked in 
a motorcycle/scooter space. However, employees that have been assigned a regular space may 
use that space to park a motorcycle or scooter. Only scooters and bicycles may be parked 
without charge at any bicycle rack provided at a State parking facility. 
4.6 
DPA reserves the right to retain, eliminate, or reassign parking spaces, or to change public 
access upon 30 days’ notice, or without notice due to security measures determined necessary 
by DPA or the Department of Public Safety. A displaced agency or individual parking customer 
shall have a preference when another space becomes available. 
4.7 
All vehicles are parked in state facilities at the risk of the owners, drivers, and passengers. 
Neither the State of Colorado, nor any of its agents or employees, shall have any liability or 
obligation to anyone for any damage or loss with respect to any vehicle or its contents while 
parked at any state facility. 
4.8 
Neither agencies nor employee assignees may reassign parking spaces. Agency spaces may not 
be used for the placement of personally-owned vehicles, nor may agency spaces be issued by 
agencies to individual employees. 
4.9 
Capitol Complex may approve an assignee to sublease individual parking spaces, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the parking agreement. 
4.10 
A state agency space is reserved at all times, and an individual space is reserved during normal 
state business hours. On Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays, a state employee with an assigned 
individual space is guaranteed a space in their assigned facility, but not necessarily their 
particular reserved space. 
4.11 
The Executive Director of DPA may authorize the lease of all or a portion of the spaces in any 
parking facility to local governments or private entities in connection with community, civic, or 
commercial purposes outside of normal state business hours. Every such lease shall contain 
provisions requiring the lessee to, without reservation, indemnify and hold harmless the State of 
Colorado, DPA, and all state officers and employees. 
5.0 
Fees 
5.1 
Each year, DPA conducts a survey of similar parking facilities surrounding the Capitol Complex, 
and uses that information to set parking rates, pursuant to § 24-82-103(2), C.R.S. 
5.2 
DPA will bill for agency spaces on a current basis within the same month as the accounting 
period through an internal exchange transfer through the Colorado Operations Resource Engine 
(CORE). An agency must provide any changes in billing information to the Capitol Parking 
Authority by the first business day of each month. 
5.3 
An employee must authorize a monthly payroll deduction to pay for an individual parking space 
before the space will be assigned. Individual parking fees are deducted from the same month’s 
salary. 
5.4 
All refunds are made through the payroll system and will be pro-rated based upon the number of 
calendar days in the month in which parking is commenced or terminated. The termination date 
used will be the date the Authority receives the parking permit and remote facility opener, if 
applicable. 
5.5 
All fees, penalties, or other funds received pursuant to these rules shall be deposited pursuant to 
§ 24-82-103, C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 103-2 
Division of Central Services 
 
4 
6.0 
Carpool and Vanpool Discounts 
6.1 
A driver of a carpool or vanpool is eligible for a reduced parking rate based on the number of 
passengers, and by meeting all of the following requirements: 
(a) 
The driver who has been assigned the space must be a state employee. 
(b) 
All carpoolers must ride to and from work together at least four days per week excluding 
sick, annual, or other approved leave time. 
(c) 
No person may be claimed in more than one carpool or vanpool, nor may any person be 
assigned an individual space while participating in a carpool or vanpool. 
(d) 
All carpoolers must complete the approved Carpool/Vanpool form, and complete an 
updated confirmation of the information at least annually. 
(e) 
All carpoolers must work in the Downtown Denver area, as verified on the required 
carpool/vanpool forms. 
6.2 
The amount of the reduced parking rate depends upon the number of persons participating in the 
carpool or vanpool. With two carpoolers, a 25% discount shall apply. With three carpoolers, a 
50% discount shall apply. With four carpoolers, a 100% discount shall apply. 
6.3 
Should the carpool or vanpool fail at any time to comply with the requirements of rule 6.1, the 
assignee will no longer qualify for reduced parking rates. 
7.0 
Permits and Parking Access Devices 
7.1 
A numbered parking permit in the form of a plastic tag indicating facility and/or a parking access 
device will be issued for each assigned space. The permit must be displayed in the front 
windshield so that the number is in plain view. When an assignee leaves state employment, the 
permit and/or parking access device must be returned to the Capitol Parking Authority. Parking 
permits and/or parking access devices must be returned whenever an assignee changes or 
relinquishes a space. 
7.2 
A charge will be assessed to replace a lost, stolen, broken, or unreturned parking permit tag 
and/or access device. Payments for permits and parking access devices maybe made in cash, by 
personal check payable to the State of Colorado, or by credit card as provided by Capitol 
Complex. No refund or credit will be made for the return of a lost, stolen, broken, or previously 
unreturned permit or parking access device after a new permit or device has been issued. If a 
permit or device that has been reported lost or stolen is found in use, the individual using the 
permit or device may be subject to appropriate civil, criminal, and personnel action. 
7.2.1 
The charges assessed to replace a lost, stolen, broken, or unreturned parking permit tag 
and/or access device will be published on the Capitol Complex website. 
8.0 
Violations 
8.1 
Administrative penalties will be assessed for each of the following violations: 
(a) 
Failure to display a valid permit 
(b) 
Parking in a loading zone 
(c) 
Improper parking so as to hinder vehicle or pedestrian traffic

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 103-2 
Division of Central Services 
 
5 
(d) 
Unauthorized parking in an assigned space 
(e) 
Failure to maintain current assignee or passenger information, if applicable 
(f) 
Double parking 
(g) 
Parking in or blocking a crosswalk 
(h) 
Parking in or blocking a driveway 
(i) 
Parking in a prohibited zone 
(j) 
Falsification, duplication, fabrication, or alteration of a parking permit 
(k) 
Unauthorized parking in a disabled access space (pursuant to 42-4-1208 C.R.S. [2014]). 
8.2 
The owner of any vehicle found to be in violation of any of the above shall be responsible for the 
payment of any administrative penalty and towing or storage charges, if applicable. 
8.3 
The administrative penalty schedule for these violations will be published on the Capitol Complex 
Web site. Administrative penalties will comply with existing state and local statutes, and shall not 
exceed the fees or penalties described therein. 
9.0 
Enforcement 
9.1 
Only authorized DPA personnel may issue citations or authorize the towing of vehicles at state 
facilities for violations of these rules. 
9.2 
Each citation will include a date and time for the respondent to appear before an administrative 
law judge at the Office of Administrative Courts. A respondent not wishing to contest a citation 
may pay the assessed penalty by sending a check made payable to the State of Colorado at 
1525 Sherman Street, B-15, Denver, Colorado 80203. An additional fee will be added for any 
check returned for insufficient funds. 
9.3 
A respondent may contest an assessed penalty by appearing personally or through legal counsel 
at the date and time specified on the citation at the Office of Administrative Courts, 1525 
Sherman Street, Fourth Floor, Denver, Colorado, 80203. A hearing fee shall be assessed, which 
shall be waived if the respondent prevails at the hearing. If the respondent fails to appear for the 
hearing, the judge will enter a final decision against the respondent. 
9.4 
A citation that remains unpaid for thirty days after issuance, or in the case of a contested citation, 
for thirty days after an unappealed decision of an administrative law judge or the Division 
Director, shall be deemed delinquent. When a citation becomes delinquent, the amount due shall 
double and be referred to Collections as determined by Capitol Complex for further action. This 
process shall be published on the Capitol Complex website. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Preamble, rules 2.0-9.0 eff. 10/30/2015. 
Preamble, rules 1.1, 3.1, 4.1, 4.2, 4.8-4.11, 6.1(d), 7.0, 9.0 eff. 01/14/2021.
