---
id: "1_CCR_204-31"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1 CCR 204-31"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=5865&fileName=1%20CCR%20204-31&type=pdf"
---

#### 1_CCR_204-31. 1 CCR 204-31

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE 
Division of Motor Vehicles 
RULES FOR MEASUREMENT OF NOISE FROM NEW MOTOR VEHICLES 
1 CCR 204-31 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
STATEMENT OF BASIS AND PURPOSE 
Statutory authority for this rule is found in §25-12-106 (2). The purpose of the rule is to establish a test 
procedure for measuring noise produced from new motor vehicles sold or offered for sale in Colorado. 
1.0 
This rule does not pertain to authorized emergency vehicles. 
1.1 
Sound measurements shall conform to Code of Federal Regulations Title 40 Part 205 
(Transportation Equipment Noise Emissions Controls) and current test procedures of the Society 
of Automotive Engineers. 
The Department adopts 40 CFR 205, current as of July 15, 2014, as part of 1 CCR 204-4 of the 
Department of Revenue, Division of Motor Vehicle’s Regulations. The Code of Federal 
Regulations is published by the departments and agencies of the Federal Government. This 
federal rule was promulgated pursuant to the following federal statute: 42 U.S.C. 4905 and 4909. 
The Department’s Rule does not include any later amendments or editions of the incorporated 
federal rule. 40 CFR 205 is available for public inspection online at www.fdsys.gov. A copy of 40 
CFR 205 may be purchased from the U.S. Government Bookstore, located at 710 North Capitol 
Street NW, Washington, DC 20401, phone 202-512-0132. Certified copies of the complete text of 
the incorporated federal rule are maintained at the Colorado Department of Revenue, Division of 
Motor Vehicles, 1881 Pierce Street, Room # 142, Denver, Colorado 80214, and may be 
inspected by contacting the Records Custodian at that address during normal business hours. 
The incorporated material may also be examined at any state publications depository library. 
Certified copies shall be provided at cost upon request. 
The Department adopts the test procedures of the Society of Automotive Engineers International 
set forth in standard J2805_200810, Measurement of Noise Emitted by Accelerating Road 
Vehicles, issued by the Light Vehicle Exterior Sound Level Standards Committee of the Society of 
Automotive Engineers International, published October 2, 2008, as part of 1 CCR 204-4 of the 
Department of Revenue, Division of Motor Vehicle’s Regulations. The Department’s Rule does 
not include any later amendments to or editions of the incorporated standard J2805_200810 of 
the Society of Automotive Engineers International. Standard J2805_200810 is published by the 
Society of Automotive Engineers International. A copy may be obtained for $70.00 by ordering 
online at www.sae.org, or by an order to SAE Customer Service, 400 Commonwealth Drive, 
Warrendale, PA 15096-0001, phone 1-877-606-7372 (U.S. and Canada) or 724-776-4970 
(outside the U.S. and Canada). A copy of the complete text of standard J2805_200810 is 
maintained at the Colorado Department of Revenue, Division of Motor Vehicles, 1881 Pierce 
Street, Room # 142, Denver, Colorado 80214, and may be inspected by contacting the Records 
Custodian at that address during normal business hours. The incorporated material may also be 
examined at any state publications depository library. 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
2 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 08/30/2014.
