---
id: "1_CCR_207-2"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1 CCR 207-2"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12473&fileName=1%20CCR%20207-2&type=pdf"
---

#### 1_CCR_207-2. 1 CCR 207-2

1 
Department of Revenue 
Division of Gaming 
SPORTS BETTING REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
BASIS AND PURPOSE FOR RULE 1 
The purpose of Rule 1 is to provide definitions of various terms used throughout the 
sports betting Rules of the Colorado Limited Gaming Control Commission so that the 
Rules can be uniformly applied and understood. The definitions in 44-30-103, C.R.S. 
and 44-30-1501 C.R.S. shall also apply throughout this document. The statutory basis 
for Rule 1 is found in sections 44-30-102, C.R.S., 44-30-104, C.R.S., 44-30-201, C.R.S., 
44-30-202, C.R.S., 44-30-203, C.R.S., and 44-30-302, C.R.S. 
RULE 1  
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS Effective 4/14/20 
1.1 
Applicable Laws, Rules, and Regulations. 
(1) 
In order to ensure that sports betting is seamlessly integrated into the regulatory 
system established for limited gaming under article 30, title 44, and except as 
otherwise provided in subsection (2), the applicable Gaming Rules and 
Regulations, located at 1 CCR 207-1, shall apply, unless such application 
conflicts with any other provision of these Sports Betting Rules and Regulations 
or the context otherwise requires. Where the Gaming Rules and Regulations are 
inconsistent with these Sports Betting Rules and Regulations, the Sports Betting 
Rules and Regulations must be followed. The application of relevant Gaming 
Rules and Regulations shall not be construed as to conflict with any other 
provision of these Sports Betting Rules, article 30, title 44 or any other applicable 
statute. 
(2) 
Notwithstanding subsection (1) of this Rule 1.1, the following Gaming Rules and 
Regulations shall not apply to the Sports Betting Rules and Regulations: 1 CCR 
207-1, Rules 8-11; 14; 17; and 21-24. 
(3) 
Nothing in these rules shall be interpreted to be inconsistent with currently 
enacted and applicable Colorado state and federal law. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
2 
1.2 
 
Authorized sports event. 
(1) 
Sports betting permitted pursuant to article 30 of title 44, C.R.S., shall include 
only the following: Any individual or team sport or athletic event in which the 
outcome is not determined solely by chance, whether amateur or professional, 
including an Olympic or international sport or athletic event and any collegiate 
sports event. 
(2) 
Any portion of an authorized sport or athletic event, including the individual 
performance statistics of athletes in a sports event or combination of sports 
events. 
(3) 
An authorized sanctioned motor sport; and 
(4) 
Any other sports event or combination of sports events as authorized by the 
Commission by Rule. 
1.3 
Unauthorized sports betting. 
(1) 
No licensee shall conduct or permit on its premises or through any online or 
electronic means any sports betting, except sports betting which is conducted 
according to all the Rules and Regulations promulgated by the Commission, or 
the laws and regulations governing other betting activities which are licensed or 
approved by an agency of the State of Colorado. 
(2) 
No person shall make any unauthorized wager or conduct any sports betting 
activity on its premises or through any online or electronic means unless in 
accordance with the act, the Rules and Regulations promulgated by the 
Commission, or the laws and regulations governing other betting activities which 
are licensed or approved by an agency of the State of Colorado. 
(3) 
No licensee shall conduct or permit on its premises or through any online or 
electronic means any sports betting on a high school sports event, a video game 
that is not sanctioned by a sports governing body or equivalent as an electronic 
competition, or proposition bets on collegiate sports events; and 
(4) 
No sports bet shall be accepted from a person under the age of twenty-one 
years, that does not originate in the State of Colorado, and that does not conform 
to the laws or Regulations.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
3 
Rule 1.4 
Definitions 
(1) “ACH” means Automated Clearing House, which is a network that connects all 
banking and financial institutions within the United States. 
(2) 
“Additional Fee” means any fee, including but not limited to monthly fees or sign-
up costs, that a Sports Betting Operator or an Internet Sports Betting Operator 
charges to a patron that allows the patron to place, buy or sell wagers with the 
Sports Betting Operator or Internet Sports Betting Operator in the State of 
Colorado. Additional Fees are prohibited. 
(3) 
“Affiliate” means an individual or entity that promotes sport betting websites in 
exchange for a Commission or fee. 
(4) 
“Age and identity verification” means a method, system, or device used by a 
Sports Betting Operation to verify the validity of a patron’s age and the patron’s 
identity. 
(5) 
“Authentication process” means a method used by a Sports Betting Operation to 
verify the validity of software. 
(6) 
“Back” means to wager on a selected outcome occurring (betting that an 
outcome will occur) in a given market. 
(7) 
“Canceled wager” means a wager that has been canceled by the Sports Betting 
Operation due to any issue with an event that prevents its completion. 
(8) 
“Card” is the list of Sports Events from which a patron can make selections for a 
given Pool. Effective 12/15/20 
(9) 
“Corrective wager” means an exchange wager placed by the Internet Sports 
Betting Operator or Sports Betting Operator in the market offered by that 
operator, under circumstances approved by the Director, in order to address the 
impact on that market of the cancellation or voiding of a given matched wager or 
given part of a matched wager. 
(10) 
“Entity wagering” means an entity or person, other than an individual acting in 
their personal name within the State of Colorado, that has funds on deposit with 
an Internet Sports Betting Operator or Sports Betting Operator by placing 
wagers, and buying and selling wagers on the Exchange. Entity wagering is 
prohibited. The activity of Market Makers that complies with Rule 7.13(7) does 
not constitute entity wagering. 
(11) 
“Event number” means a set of alpha and/or numeric characters that 
corresponds to a sports event or an event ancillary to a sports event.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
4 
(12) 
“Exchange” means a system operated by the Internet Sports Betting Operator or 
Sports Betting Operator in which the Internet Sports Betting Operator or Sports 
Betting Operator accepts, matches, and/or cancels wagers to back or lay 
outcomes on a sporting event approved on the Colorado Division of Gaming 
Official Sports Betting Catalog of Events and Wagers, or Official Catalog of Fixed 
Odds Wagering, as permitted under Rule 5.4. 
(13) 
“Exchange bets” is a reporting term used to derive net sports betting proceeds, 
and shall be calculated as the cumulative risk taken by patrons on a market on 
each gaming day 
(14) 
“Exchange bets paid” is a reporting term used to derive net sports betting 
proceeds, and shall be calculated as the cumulative amount paid out to patrons 
on a market on each gaming day. Exchange bets paid shall not include any 
commission collected by the Internet Sports Betting Operator or Sports Betting 
Operator approved to conduct exchange wagering. 
(15) 
“Exchange wagers” means wagers placed in an exchange wagering system by 
those present in this state on the results of a sporting event approved on the 
Colorado Division of Gaming Official Sports Betting Catalog of Events and 
Wagers, or Official Catalog of Fixed Odds Wagering, as permitted under Rule 
5.4. 
(16) 
“Exchange wagering” means the form of wagering, authorized by this section 
7.13, in which patrons place wagers that can be matched by an exchange 
wagering system to become back or lay wagers, and which wagering is 
conducted by the Internet Sports Betting Operator or Sports Betting Operator 
approved to conduct exchange wagering. 
(17) 
“Exchange wagering system” means a component of the sports betting system 
through which exchange wagers are processed. 
(18) 
“Free bet” means a bet made by patrons using non-cashable vouchers, coupons, 
electronic credits or electronic promotions provided by Sports Betting Operations. 
(19) 
“Independent Integrity Monitoring Provider” means an independent individual or 
entity approved by the Director or Director’s designee to receive reports of 
unusual betting activity from a Sports Betting Operation for the purpose of 
assisting in identifying suspicious betting activity. 
(20) 
“Internet Sports Betting Operator” means a person contracted by a Master 
License that is licensed to operate an internet Sports Betting Operation in which 
customers place bets within the State of Colorado on authorized sports events 
through a customer’s personal computer, mobile or interactive device and 
accepted through an online gaming system approved by the Division. An Internet 
Sports Betting Operator may provide only one individually branded website, 
which may have an accompanying mobile application that must bear the same 
unique brand as the website for an internet Sports Betting Operation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
5 
(21) 
"Lay" means to wager on a selected outcome not occurring (betting the outcome 
will not occur) in a given market. 
(22) 
“Market Maker” means an entity or individual other than an individual acting in 
their personal name, who participates in revenue sharing, and provides odds 
and/or liquidity, to an Internet Sports Betting Operator or Sports Betting Operator 
that is operating an Exchange. 
(23) 
“Master License” means a person, that holds a retail gaming license as described 
in section 44-30-501 (1)(c), issued a sports betting license by the Commission 
pursuant to section 44-30-1505 (1)(a), that authorizes the licensee to either 
conduct sports betting and internet sports betting itself or contract with a Sports 
Betting Operator, an internet Sports Betting Operator, or both, to conduct sports 
betting. 
(24) 
“Net sports betting proceeds” means the total amount of all bets placed by 
players in a Sports Betting Operation or internet Sports Betting Operation, 
excluding free bets, less all payments to players and less all excise taxes paid 
pursuant to federal law. Payments to players include all payments of cash 
premiums, merchandise, or any other thing of value. 
(25) 
“Online Sports Betting Operation” means a Sports Betting Operation in which 
wagers on sports events are made through personal computers, or mobile or 
interactive devices, and accepted through an online gaming system approved by 
the Division. 
(26) 
“Pool” means a betting or promotional offering where patrons may make 
selections of outcomes on a set number of Sports Events on a Card in order to 
enter for a chance to win all or a portion of the Prize Pool. 
(27) 
“Prize pool” means the prizing available for an individual pool. 
(28) 
“Prohibited sports betting participant” means any person who is prohibited 
pursuant to 44-30-1502, C.R.S.; section 44-30-1506 (b)(II)—(IV), C.R.S.; or is a 
person under the age of 21. 
(29) 
“Proposition (Prop) bet” means a bet specifically naming an individual participant, 
or if a team sport, a specific position on a team, thus constituting a bet upon the 
actions of that individual or position, regarding the occurrence or non-occurrence 
of a certain outcome during an event that does not directly reflect the event’s final 
outcome. Amended temp. 4/30/20, Amended perm. 8/14/20 
(30) 
“Rake” means the fee that is deducted by a Sports Betting Operation from entry 
fees paid by patrons who participate in a Pool. 
(31) 
“Rake Adjustment” means an adjustment made by the Sports Betting Operation 
to account for any shortfall in connection with a Pool.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
6 
(32) 
“Self-service betting device (kiosk)” means an automated device used by patrons 
to make wagers on sporting events; the kiosk may also be used to obtain betting 
information, process sports betting vouchers and betting tickets, and any other 
automated functions approved by the Commission. All self-service betting 
devices must be located in an approved designated sports betting wagering area. 
(33) 
“Shared Liquidity Pool” means a betting or promotional offering in Colorado and 
at least one other jurisdiction where patrons may make selections of outcomes 
on a set number of Sports Events on a Card in order to enter for a chance to win 
all or a portion of the Prize Pool. 
(34) 
“Sport Betting Operator” means a person that is licensed to operate a Sports 
Betting Operation in which customers place bets in person at a designated 
physical location. A Sports Betting Operator may take authorized sports bets 
within the designated sports betting wagering area during such times as the 
Master license that they have contracted with operates. 
(35) 
“Sports Betting Operation” means a licensed wagering operation in which bets 
are placed on sports events through any system or method of betting, including 
single-game bets, teaser bets, parlays, over-under, moneyline, pools, exchange 
wagering, in-game betting, in-play bets, proposition bets other than those relating 
to collegiate sports events, or straight bets. 
(36) 
“Sports betting system” means all equipment and software used in conjunction 
with the Sports Betting Operation, including but not limited to, the following: (1) 
sports betting interactive components, including all hardware, software and 
associated equipment that comprise the sports betting platform for the purpose of 
authorizing sports betting and online and mobile sports betting, (2) self-service 
sports betting devices, (3) ticket/voucher redemption devices, and (4) any other 
device, service or system that the Commission determines to be related to the 
Sports Betting Operation. 
(37) 
“Sports betting wagering area” means an area(s), as designated by a licensee 
and approved by the Division, in which sports betting is conducted by a master 
license or Sports Betting Operator. 
(38) 
“Sports event” means any individual or team sport, athletic contest, or athletic 
event not prohibited by the Director, including all professional electronic sports 
and competitive video game events that are not sponsored by high schools, and 
do not include high school teams, and do not include a majority of participants 
that are under the age of 18 years. 
(39) 
“Sports governing body” means an organization that performs a regulatory or 
sanctioning function over the conduct of a sports event. 
(40) 
“Sports bet” means the business of accepting approved bets by a licensee on 
any sports event by any approved system or method of betting.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
7 
(41) 
“Sports betting manager” means a key employee of a Master licensee or a 
qualified employee of a Sports Betting Operator or Internet Sports Betting 
Operator, responsible for the operations of sports betting and final approval of all 
odds established on any wager made pursuant to this chapter. 
(42) 
“Sports betting system” means all equipment and software used in conjunction 
with the operation of a Sports Betting Operation. 
(43) 
“Sports betting ticket” means a printed record issued or an electronic record 
maintained by the sports betting system that evidences a sports wager. 
(44) 
“Sports betting voucher” means a printed record issued by a sports betting 
system that may be used to fund a sports wager. 
(45) 
“Suspicious betting activity” means unusual betting activity that cannot be 
explained and is indicative of match fixing, the manipulation of an event, misuse 
of inside information, or other prohibited activity. 
(46) 
“Unusual betting activity” means abnormal betting activity exhibited by patrons 
and deemed by the Sports Betting Operation as a potential indicator of 
suspicious activity. Abnormal betting activity may include the size of a patron's 
wager or increased betting volume on a particular event or wager type. 
(47) 
“Voided wager” means a wager voided by a Sports Betting Operation with 
supervisor approval, pursuant to the Sports Betting Operation’s internal controls 
for betting a specific event. 
BASIS AND PURPOSE FOR RULE 2 
The purpose of Rule 2 is, with respect to the regulation of sports betting, to delegate 
certain authority to the Director or other Division agent; provide for the review of any 
action taken pursuant to such authority; provide for the reference by the Director of 
matters delegated to the Director back to the Commission; and to establish procedures 
for Commission actions and hearings. Rule 2 also empowers the Commission to 
contract for legal counsel, and directs the Licensee to obtain moneys owed to a 
deceased patron and properly distribute such moneys. The statutory basis for Rule 2 is 
found in sections 44-30-201, C.R.S., 44-30-202, C.R.S., 44-30-203, C.R.S., 44-30-301, 
C.R.S., 44-30-302, C.R.S., 44-30-507, C.R.S., 44-30-705, C.R.S., 24-4-105, C.R.S. and 
part 15 of article 30 of title 44, C.R.S. 
RULE 2  
POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMISSION AND DIRECTOR 
2.1 
Commission action. 
In addition to meeting in person, the Commission may take action by telephone or video 
conferencing. If telephone or video conferencing is used, the Director must participate in 
the meeting and take minutes of the Commission's action. Telephone or video 
conferencing is a meeting of the Commission.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
8 
2.2 
Recessed meetings. 
Any meeting of the Commission may be recessed to consider matters duly noticed as 
items on the agenda of that meeting, to such time and place as the Commission may 
designate. Notice of a recessed meeting to consider matters duly noticed as items on 
the agenda may be given by announcement at the meeting, but where any other 
matters are to be considered at a recessed meeting, such matters must be duly noticed 
as required by statute. 
2.3 
Appointment of committees. 
The Chairperson of the Commission may at the Chairperson's discretion appoint 
committees to study and report to the Division or the Commission on any matter 
appropriate to the Commission's administration of the Colorado Limited Gaming Act or 
these Rules. 
2.4 
Right of review. 
The Commission may review any action taken by the Director by its own motion, by 
direction of the Chairperson, or by a request from a member of the Commission, the 
Attorney General, the Executive Director or the Governor. 
2.5 
Right of reference. 
The Director, with approval of the Commission, may refer any matters delegated to the 
Director back to the Commission for its decision. 
2.6 
Delegation. 
Unless the Commission determines otherwise, the Director may delegate an act 
required to be performed by the Director to any agent or employee of the Division. 
2.7 
Authority of Director. 
(1) 
The Director may issue key employee and support licenses, without necessity for 
Commission approval, to qualified applicants upon submission to the Director of 
proper applications, costs, and fees. 
(2) 
The Director may issue temporary, key employee and support licenses to 
qualified applicants upon the same terms and conditions as temporary licenses 
are issued by the Commission to applicants for other types of licenses. 
(3) 
The Director may deny a key employee license application for any reason that a 
support license application may be denied.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
9 
(4) 
The Director may approve the suitability of officers and Directors of a licensee, 
without necessity for Commission approval, provided such officers or Directors 
have less than ten percent ownership equity in the licensee. 
(5) 
The Director may deny the suitability of officers and Directors of a licensee or 
applicant for any reason that a key employee license application may be denied. 
(6) 
The Director may approve ownership changes in a licensee, without necessity for 
Commission approval, when: 
(a) 
The proposed change only reallocates ownership shares among persons 
whom the Commission has previously approved as owners; and 
(b) 
When no person will attain a total effective ownership equity of ten percent 
or greater, when such person previously held less than ten percent equity. 
(7) 
All such ownership changes approved by the Director must be reported to the 
Commission at the time of the next renewal application of the licensee. 
2.8 
Petition for hearing in an adjudicatory proceeding. 
A person aggrieved by an action of the Commission or the Director that was taken 
without a hearing may, within 30 days following the date of the action, petition the 
Commission for a hearing. The Commission may in its discretion, disallow the petition, 
determine that it be treated as one for a declaratory order, or it may grant a hearing to 
consider the matters alleged in the petition. If a hearing is granted, the Commission may 
direct the petitioner to provide certain information to the Division prior to the hearing or 
grant the hearing conditioned upon the fulfillment by the petitioner of other reasonable 
terms and conditions. The hearing must be held at a time and place convenient for the 
Commission and the petitioner. The hearing shall be considered an adjudicatory 
proceeding. The Commission shall issue all decisions in any adjudicatory proceeding in 
writing. Commission actions shall be deemed final in such cases upon the mailing of the 
decision by first class mail to the petitioner's address listed in the petition. 
2.9 
Summoning of licensee. 
The Commission may summon any licensee or licensee's agents or employees to 
appear to testify before it or its agents with regard to the conduct of the licensee or the 
agents or employees of the licensee. The testimony may be under oath and may 
embrace any matters which the Commission or its agents consider relevant to the 
discharge of its official duties. Testimony so taken may be used by the Commission as 
evidence in any proceeding or matter then before it or which may later come before it. 
Failure to appear and testify fully at the time and place designated, unless excused, 
may constitute grounds for disciplinary action against a license held by the person 
summoned, that person's principal or that person's employer.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
10 
2.10 Enforcement powers. 
In addition to other powers and duties, the Director or an employee or agent of the 
Division by direction of the Director may perform the following activities: 
(1) 
Without notice, inspect and examine premises where sports betting or internet 
sports betting is conducted or sports betting system devices or equipment are 
located, sold, distributed, or stored; 
(2) 
Without notice or hearing, examine, inspect, seize or remove from the premises 
and impound any sports betting system devices, equipment or supplies for the 
purposes of examination and inspection; 
(3) 
At any time when business is being conducted, inspect, examine and photocopy, 
or remove and impound all records of applicants and licensees; 
(4) 
Investigate the conduct of all licensees, their employees, and other persons 
having any involvement with a licensee or licensed establishment, to assist in the 
enforcement of article 30 of title 44, C.R.S., and to ensure that there is no 
involvement in or with a licensee or a licensed establishment by unqualified or 
unsuitable persons. 
2.11 Filing or notice. 
If a filing or notice to the Commission or Director is permitted or required by these 
Rules, the filing or notice may be delivered in person or mailed to the Division at 1707 
Cole Boulevard, Suite 300, Lakewood, Colorado 80401. A filing or notice is complete on 
the date it is received by the Division. Notification to the Division shall be deemed 
notification to the Commission for purposes of these Rules. 
2.12 Attorney for Commission. 
The Commission shall contract for legal counsel with the Colorado Attorney General. 
2.13 Death of a sports betting patron. 
All sports betting tickets or vouchers in the possession of a sports betting patron who 
dies before such sports betting tickets or vouchers are surrendered by such patron, and 
if the death of the patron is known or disclosed to the licensee, shall be paid by the 
licensee by check drawn upon a financial institution, chartered by any state or the 
United States Government, to the estate of the deceased patron unless the licensee is 
directed otherwise pursuant to an appropriate judicial order.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
11 
BASIS AND PURPOSE FOR RULE 3 
The purpose of Rule 3 is to enable applications, investigations and licensure as related 
to sports betting, including to establish and provide the specific information required on 
license applications; to establish license fees for each type of license; to establish 
investigation fees for certain applicants and deposit procedures for investigation fees; to 
establish procedures for conducting background checks on applicants and other 
interested persons and assessing the costs of such background checks; to require 
certain information regarding the premises the applicant wishes to be licensed, and to 
provide a procedure for approval of modifications of such premises; and to provide for 
the issuance of conditional licenses. The statutory basis for Rule 3 is found in sections 
44-30-201, C.R.S.; 44-30-203, C.R.S.; 44-30-302, C.R.S.; 44-30-507, C.R.S., and part 
15 of article 30 of title 44, C.R.S. 
RULE 3  
APPLICATIONS, INVESTIGATIONS AND LICENSURE Effective 
4/14/20 
3.1 
License classifications. 
In addition to the sports betting licenses authorized by section 44-30-1505(1)(a)–(c), 
C.R.S, the Commission authorizes the following additional license classifications. 
(1) 
Vendor major license. 
(a) 
Any person who is employed for, contracts with, or acts on behalf of an 
establishment licensed to operate sports betting, and who performs one or 
more of the following duties must hold a vendor major license: 
(i) 
Manages, administers, or controls wagers that are initiated, 
received, or made on a sports betting gaming system; 
(ii) 
Manages, administers, or controls the games with which the 
wagers that are initiated, received, or made on a sports betting 
gaming system are associated; 
(iii) 
Maintains or operates the software or hardware of a sports betting 
gaming system; 
(iv) 
Provides products, services, information or assets to an 
establishment licensed to operate sports betting and/or receives 
therefor a percentage of gaming revenue from the establishment’s 
sports betting system. 
(2) 
A vendor major license expires two years after the date of issuance but may be 
renewed upon the filing and approval of an application for renewal. 
(3) 
Vendor minor license.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
12 
(a) 
Any person who is employed for, contracts with, or acts on behalf of an 
establishment licensed to operate sports betting, and is involved in the 
operation of sports betting, other than those activities specified under 30-
301 (1), must hold a vendor minor license. 
(b) 
A vendor minor license expires two years after the date of issuance but 
may be renewed upon the filing and approval of an application for 
renewal. 
(4) 
Key employee license. 
(a) 
The person designated to be responsible for the operation of a sports 
betting operation must hold a key employee license. 
(b) 
Persons licensed as key employees for limited gaming purposes need not 
obtain a separate key employee license for sports betting. 
(c) 
The determination of key employee status shall follow the same procedure 
as that set out in section 44-30-502, C.R.S., for key employees for limited 
gaming purposes. 
(d) 
A key employee license expires two years after the date of issuance but 
may be renewed upon the filing and approval of an application for 
renewal. 
(5) 
Support license. 
(a) 
All employees of a sports betting licensee not otherwise required to hold a 
key employee license, a vendor major license, or a vendor minor license 
may be required to hold a support license. 
(b) 
Persons licensed as support employees for limited gaming purposes need 
not obtain a separate support employee license for sports betting. 
(c) 
No person required to hold a support license shall be an employee of, or 
assist, any sports betting licensee in the licensee’s sports betting 
operation until the person obtains a valid support license. 
(d) 
A support license expires two years after the date of issuance but may be 
renewed upon the filing and approval of an application for renewal. 
3.2 
Qualifications for licensure. 
To qualify for licensure an applicant must: 
(1) 
Be at least twenty-one years of age; 
(2) 
Possess a suitable character as determined by the Director or the Commission;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
13 
(3) 
For applicants for a master license, possess premises to be used for sports 
betting that are deemed suitable by the Commission and that satisfy all health 
and safety requirements; and 
(4) 
Comply with all specific laws, rules and regulations regulating sports betting in 
Colorado, and any other regulatory or taxing authority. 
3.3 
Applications. 
(1) 
An applicant for any type of license must apply on forms provided by the Division. 
Such application forms shall be completed under penalty of perjury. The 
application forms may include questions concerning the following: 
(a) 
Personal background information; 
(b) 
Licensing background; 
(c) 
Organizational information; 
(d) 
Financial information; 
(e) 
Participation in legal or illegal activities in Colorado or other jurisdictions, 
including foreign countries; 
(f) 
Criminal record information; 
(g) 
Information concerning all pecuniary and equity interests in the applicant; 
and 
(h) 
Other information as required. 
The application forms shall be accompanied and supplemented by such 
documents and information as may be specified or required. Failure to supply the 
information requested within five days after the request has been made by the 
Division constitutes grounds for delaying consideration of the application. 
(2) 
Renewal applications for licenses may be submitted and renewed upon the filing 
and approval of an application for renewal. Renewal applications for master 
licenses, sports betting operator licenses, internet sports betting operator 
licenses, vendor major licenses, and vendor minor licenses must be received by 
the Division 120 days before the expiration of the current license. Renewal 
applications for support employee and key employee licenses must be received 
by the Division 30 days before the expiration of the current license. Renewal 
applicants who fail to submit their completed applications when due shall not be 
considered to have made a timely and sufficient application for renewal, as such 
term is used in section 24-4-104(7), C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
14 
(3) 
When a key employee license or support employee license expires prior to 
renewal, the applicant for re-licensure shall file an original license application and 
shall pay the fee for an original application, and the Division shall process the 
application as an original license application. 
(4) 
Applicants, licensees, and others who submit documents to the Division or the 
Commission in connection with any investigation or inquiry are advised to keep a 
complete and detailed record of all such submissions. Once submitted, the 
documents become part of the Division’s investigative files and work papers, and 
are presumed to be confidential and protected pursuant to section 44-30-1507, 
C.R.S. Because of the inconvenience to the Division in segregating this 
information from the investigative files, and in filtering confidential materials, 
disclosure to the person who initially submitted the record is not favored. The 
Commission may grant such a request only upon a showing of compelling cause. 
3.4 
License fees. 
(1) 
A non-refundable fee for issuance of a two-year license must accompany an 
application for any license required by this Rule. 
(2) 
The amount of the fee required by subsection (1) shall be set pursuant to the 
annual fee schedule proposed by the Director and approved by the Commission. 
3.5 
Investigation and background check costs. 
(1) 
All applicants for licenses shall pay the costs of investigations into their 
backgrounds, suitability, and qualifications for licensure. 
(a) 
The cost of such investigations shall be at the current hourly rate set by 
the formula prepared by the Director and approved by the Commission for 
each hour spent by investigators of the Division, the Colorado Bureau of 
Investigation, or the Department of Revenue investigating the applicants 
until the conclusion of the investigation. 
(b) 
All such applicants shall also pay the Division for the following actual costs 
incurred in conducting the background investigations: transportation, 
lodging, meals, and other expenses associated with traveling; significant 
office expense; document reproduction costs, preparation time; time 
necessary for administration of the investigation (including additional 
staffing on a temporary basis); and other similar expenses incurred until 
the conclusion of the investigation. 
(c) 
An investigation concludes upon the issuance by the Commission of an 
initial order concerning the issuance or denial of the license, upon the 
issuance by either the Commission or the Division of an order approving 
the withdrawal of the application, or upon the issuance by the Division of 
an order of denial of the license which is not appealed to the Commission.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
15 
(2) 
Additionally, applicants shall submit a set of fingerprints to the Division, except 
that an applicant whose primary residence is located outside of the United States 
is not required to satisfy this requirement unless the Commission determines 
otherwise. The Division shall forward the fingerprints to the Colorado Bureau of 
Investigation for the purpose of conducting a state and national fingerprint-based 
criminal history record check utilizing records of the Colorado Bureau of 
Investigation and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The applicant for a sports 
betting license shall be responsible for the actual costs of submitting such 
fingerprints for investigation. The total amount of the fee for issuance of a 
license, investigation fees, and fees for the background check for an applicant for 
a sports betting license may not exceed one hundred and twenty-five thousand 
dollars. 
(3) 
Before any such investigations are conducted, each original applicant for a sports 
betting operator license or internet sports betting operator license, or vendor 
major license shall pay a deposit of $10,000 to the sports betting fund. Upon 
notice to the applicant, all other license types may be required to pay a deposit to 
the sports betting fund in an amount, which, in the Director’s discretion, is 
sufficient to enable the investigation to be conducted. 
(4) 
As expenses are incurred, the Division shall draw upon the respective deposits in 
the sports betting fund. Upon request, a statement of costs, draws upon deposit, 
and deposit balance shall be sent to the applicant making the request. 
(5) 
When a deposit balance approaches zero dollars, or is forecasted to reach zero 
dollars due to anticipated or known expenses which will be incurred in the future, 
the Division may request a further deposit of an amount sufficient to cover the 
anticipated expenses and which will prevent the account balance from becoming 
negative. Until receipt of such further deposit, investigation of the application may 
cease. 
(6) 
Where an applicant disputes any investigative charges, or the necessity for 
further deposits, the applicant may request relief from the Commission, by 
declaratory order or other appropriate motion, regarding the matters in dispute. 
(7) 
No license, finding of suitability, or other approvals sought, shall be issued until 
payment for the full amount of any negative deposit balance has been received 
from the applicant. 
(8) 
Within 90 days of the conclusion of the investigation, any deposit balance shall 
be returned to the applicant. A statement of costs, also called an account detail 
report, draws upon deposit, and deposit balance shall accompany the return of 
the deposit balance to the applicant.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
16 
3.6 
Contract approvals. 
Applicants for a master license, sports betting operator license, internet sports betting 
operator license, and vendor major license must provide, at the time of application, 
contracts or proposed contracts with all other sports betting licensees or applicants for a 
sports betting license, in a form as specified by the Division. 
3.7 
Retail gaming licenses. 
Any applicant who holds a retail gaming license may apply for a master license. Upon 
the applicant’s submission of an application and payment of all applicable fees, the 
Commission may issue one master license for each retail gaming license the applicant 
holds. 
3.8 
Waiver of privilege. 
An applicant may claim any privilege afforded by the Constitution of the United States, 
or of the State of Colorado in refusing to answer questions by the Division and the 
Commission. However, a claim of privilege with respect to any testimony or evidence 
pertaining to an application may constitute sufficient grounds for denial of an application 
or revocation of a license. 
3.9 
Waiver of application requirements. 
Business applicants for a sports betting license and licensees, or holding, intermediate 
or subsidiary companies of an applicant or licensee, may petition the Division for a 
waiver of the requirements listed in sections 44-30-1504(1) or (2), C.R.S. Waivers may 
be granted in the discretion of the Director upon a showing of good cause, subject to 
Commission approval. 
3.10 Untrue statements. 
The Commission may refuse to grant a license to an applicant who makes deliberate 
misstatements, deliberate omissions, misrepresentations, or untruths in the application 
or in connection with the applicant’s background investigation. Such conduct may also 
constitute a class 6 felony. 
3.11 Designated gaming area. 
(1) 
An applicant for a master license must specify the designated gaming area(s) 
within the casino, if any, where sports betting will take place by providing the 
following information: 
(a) 
An 8 1/2” x11” drawing to scale of the building, and each floor thereof, in 
which sports betting shall be conducted.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
17 
A diagram, outlined in red, of the proposed designated gaming area(s) on 
each floor within the building, and including the placement of any self-
service sports betting devices. No sports betting, except online sports 
betting by a customer using his or her own computer or mobile or 
interactive device, shall be conducted or permitted outside of the 
designated gaming area(s). All persons participating in sports betting, 
except online sports betting by a customer using his or her own computer 
or mobile or interactive device, must stand or sit within the designated 
gaming area(s); and no licensee shall permit any person to conduct or 
participate in sports betting, except online sports betting by a customer 
using his or her own computer or mobile or interactive device, who is not 
within the designated gaming area(s). Nothing in this section, however, 
shall be construed to permit violation of any fire safety, health or building 
codes by any licensee. The designated gaming area(s) must be clearly 
marked as such so that the patrons of each establishment licensed to 
operate sports betting can readily discern the designated gaming area(s). 
(b) 
A certificate of compliance approved by the local fire and building officials 
which has been approved, or deemed approved, by the Colorado Division 
of Fire Prevention and Control; and a written statement by the appropriate 
local official that handicapped access to the designated gaming area(s) 
has been provided. 
(2) 
Any master licensee may change the configuration of its designated gaming 
area(s) upon prior approval of the Division. Application to modify the designated 
gaming area(s) must be made on forms furnished by the Division. No application 
to modify the designated gaming area(s) of any licensee shall be approved 
unless the designated gaming area(s), as modified, meets the requirements of 
article 30 of title 44, C.R.S., and the rules promulgated thereunder. 
(3) 
An applicant for a sports betting license, other than a master license, must 
specify the portion of the master licensee’s premises, if any, where sports betting 
will take place by submitting such information along with its contract with a 
master licensee. 
3.12 Temporary license. 
(1) 
The Commission may issue a temporary license to any applicant for a permanent 
license. 
(2) 
No licensee issued a temporary license pursuant to this Rule 3 or part 15 of 
article 30 of title 44, C.R.S., shall be entitled to receive any refund of the license 
fee submitted in connection with the license application.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
18 
(3) 
The Commission may change a temporary license into a permanent license 
where: all investigations into the license application are complete; and the 
Commission is satisfied the holder of a temporary license qualifies to hold a 
permanent license. 
(4) 
When the Commission changes a temporary license into a permanent license, 
the date of issuance of the permanent license shall be deemed to be the date 
that the Commission approved the permanent license. 
(5) 
A temporary license may expire of its own accord, or it may be suspended, 
revoked, or summarily suspended under the same terms and conditions as a 
permanent license. 
(6) 
The Commission may issue consecutive temporary licenses in its discretion. 
3.13 Approval with conditions or for a limited period. 
The Commission may grant a license with special conditions or for a limited period, or 
both. 
3.14 Approval. 
(1) 
Except as otherwise provided in subsection (2) of this rule, the Commission shall 
approve an application for any license that meets all requirements imposed by 
article 30 of title 44, C.R.S., and the rules and regulations thereunder, including 
payment of all fees and costs. 
(2) 
The Director may issue temporary or permanent key employee and support 
licenses required by this Rule 3, without necessity for Commission approval, to 
qualified applicants upon submission to the Director of proper applications, costs, 
and fees. 
3.15 Transferability of licenses. 
(1) 
A license issued pursuant to these rules may not be transferred without prior 
approval by the Commission. The Commission reserves the right to terminate 
any license and revoke the privileges of such license whenever appropriate. 
3.16 Temporary closure of sports betting operation. 
A sports betting operator may have its designated physical location closed temporarily if 
the closure relates to a temporary closure of a retail licensed premise approved by the 
Commission in accordance with Gaming Rule 3, 1 C.C.R. 207-1. The duration of the 
closure will be set by the Commission based on the circumstances, information 
provided by the retailer and information provided by the Division.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
19 
BASIS AND PURPOSE FOR RULE 4 
The purpose of Rule 4 is to collect sports betting taxes and other revenue in accordance 
with section 44-30-1508, C.R.S., and 44-30-1509, C.R.S., to provide for security for the 
payment of sports betting taxes to the Department, and to provide for the payment of 
sports betting taxes by electronic funds transfer and allow monthly sports betting tax 
returns to be electronically transmitted. The statutory basis and purpose for Rule 4 is 
found in sections 44-30-201, C.R.S., 44-30-202, C.R.S., 44-30-203, C.R.S., 44-30-302, 
C.R.S., 44-30-602, C.R.S., 44-30-604, C.R.S., 44-30-1508, C.R.S., and 44-30-1509, 
C.R.S. 
RULE 4 
 
TAXES AND FEES Effective 4/14/20 
4.1 
Payment of taxes. 
(1) 
Payment of sports betting taxes by the Sports Betting Operation, at the statutorily 
set rate of ten percent of net sports betting proceeds, shall be made to the 
Department by an electronic funds transfer or by any other method permitted in 
articles 20, 21, and 26 of title 39, C.R.S. Electronic funds transfer is defined to be 
Automated Clearing House (ACH) debit. Any electronic funds transfer shall be 
made using ACH debit transaction in the Cash Concentration or Disbursement 
(CCD) entry format with addendum record as defined by the 1994 ACH Rules 
published by the National Automated Clearing House Association. The data 
contained in the addendum record shall be in the format of the tax payment 
(TXP) banking convention published by the National Automated Clearing House 
Association in 1990. (The references to the rules and conventions of the National 
Automated Clearing House Association in this regulation do not include later 
amendments or editions of this referenced material. Certified copies of these 
rules and conventions are on file at the Department of Revenue and may be 
obtained or examined by contacting the manager of Deposit Control, 1375 
Sherman Street, Denver, Colorado 80261.) 
(2) 
The payment for sports betting taxes shall be made by the person required to 
make tax payments pursuant to Rule 7.8(2) who must remit sports betting taxes 
separately and apart from any other taxes which are paid to the Department. In 
addition to the payment, the Sports Betting Operation shall electronically transmit 
to the Department a tax return in the format provided by the Department. The 
return and payment shall be made no later than the 15th day of the month 
succeeding the calendar month in which the net sports betting proceeds were 
received by the licensee or the due date if later in accordance with section 39-21-
119(3), C.R.S. (1994). All monthly sports betting tax returns beginning with the 
return for May 2020 taxes shall be transmitted electronically. 
(a) 
Payment is timely if the payment settles to the Department’s bank account 
by the 16th day of the month succeeding the calendar month in which the 
net sports betting proceeds were received by the licensee or the due date 
if later in accordance with Section 39-21-119(3), C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
20 
(b) 
The electronic tax return shall provide a computation of the monthly tax 
due based on the sports betting tax rate of 10% of net sports betting 
proceeds. 
(c) 
The department shall notify the master licensee within seven days if a 
Sports Betting Operator or internet Sports Betting Operator, operating 
under that master license, fails to make any timely payment of sports 
betting taxes. 
(3) 
Upon a licensee’s request, the Director may grant an extension up of not more 
than five (5) days for filing a return and payment, except that the Director shall 
not grant more than two extensions during any one-year period. 
4.2 
Hold Harmless Fund applications. 
(1) 
Claimants eligible pursuant to section 44-30-1509(2)(c)(i)(A)-(E), C.R.S., who 
wish to apply for available payments from the Wagering Revenue Recipients 
Hold-Harmless Fund (“Hold-Harmless Fund”) shall submit the Hold-Harmless 
Fund Application Form found on the Division of Gaming website, in addition to all 
supporting documents required by this rule and any additional documents, as 
requested by the Commission or Division, necessary for review of the claim. 
(2) 
Completed applications shall be due within thirty (30) days following the annual 
distributions, by the Commission, from the limited gaming fund, beginning 2021. 
THE COMMISSION SHALL MAKE ANY DISTRIBUTIONS BASED ON THESE APPLICATIONS ON 
OR BEFORE DECEMBER 31 OF THAT SAME YEAR. 
(3) 
In determining the validity of Hold Harmless Fund applications, the Commission 
shall consider, at a minimum, the following factors: 
(a) 
Total amount of damages claimed; 
(b) 
Profit and Loss statements of claimants; 
(c) 
Factors other than sports betting that may have contributed to loss; and 
(d) 
Whether the claimant is eligible to receive or receives funding for such 
purposes from other sources and the total amount of funds received, if 
any.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
21 
BASIS AND PURPOSE FOR RULE 5 
The purpose of Rule 5 is to establish the types of sports betting activities to be 
conducted by sports betting licensees, including to establish and provide the specific 
information required to request the authorization of new sports events; to establish the 
prohibited sports events; to establish the sports events previously authorized; and to 
establish procedures and fee requirements for sports betting licensees to offer betting 
on sports events. The statutory basis for Rule 5 is found in sections 44-30-201, C.R.S., 
44-30-202, C.R.S., 44-30-203, C.R.S., 44-30-302, C.R.S., and part 15 of article 30 of 
title 44, C.R.S. 
RULE 5 
AUTHORIZED SPORTS BETTING ACTIVITIES Effective 4/14/20 
5.1 
Approved sports events and leagues. 
(1) 
Persons licensed to offer sports betting may accept wagers on those sports 
events and leagues approved by the Commission, which shall be reflected on the 
Official Sports Betting Catalog of Events and Wagers. 
(2) 
Where a sports league is authorized, persons licensed to offer sports betting may 
accept wagers on all sports events conducted by such sports league, where the 
sports event is of the kind generally conducted by that league. 
(3) 
The Director or designee shall post the Official Sports Betting Catalog of Events 
and Wagers on the Division website. As new events and/or leagues are 
authorized, the Director or designee shall update the Official Sports Betting 
Catalog of Events and Wagers, and inform the Master, Sports Betting Operator 
and Internet Sports Betting Operator licensees and applicable sports governing 
bodies of those changes. Unless otherwise stated by these Rules, all approved 
sports events or wagers may be offered by all Sports Betting Operators. 
5.2 
Requests to authorize new Sports Events. 
(1) 
Sports betting licensees may request that the Division, through the authority 
delegated by the Commission, authorize sports events, leagues or bets not 
already authorized and included on the Official Sports Betting Catalog of Events 
and Wagers. The request must be approved prior to any licensee offering the 
new event or wager to the public. Requests made less than three (3) business 
days before a new even for which the request is made may be denied at the 
Division’s discretion. 
(2) 
The request shall be in a form as specified by the Division, including: 
(a) 
The name of the sports governing body; and 
(b) 
A description of its policies and procedures regarding event integrity.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
22 
(3) 
Where a sports betting licensee wishes to authorize a sports event conducted by 
an approved sports league of a type not generally conducted by that sports 
league, the Division may contact the sport’s governing body for input. 
(4) 
The Director or Director’s designee will consider the request, all provided 
materials and any relevant input from the sport’s governing body or conductor of 
the sports event prior to authorizing a sports event, league or portion of a sport or 
athletic event. The wager being requested must meet the following criteria before 
the request may be approved: 
(a) 
The outcome is not determined solely by chance; 
(b) 
The outcome can be verified; 
(c) 
The event generating the outcome is conducted in a manner that ensures 
sufficient integrity controls exist so the outcome can be trusted; 
(d) 
The outcome is not affected by any bet placed; and 
(e) 
The event is conducted in conformity with all applicable laws. 
5.3 
High School sports events. 
(1) 
Betting on high school sports and equivalent level club or specialty sports events 
is prohibited and shall not be authorized. 
5.4 
Fixed Odds or Price on Horse Wagering. 
(1) 
For the purposes of this Rule 5.4 only: 
(a) 
“The governing body” means the racing commission, governmental or 
other organization that is entrusted with the regulatory duty to ensure 
integrity of the outcome, from the racetrack where the race is contested. 
(b) 
“The owner” means the owner(s) of the animal in the contest. 
(2) 
Sports betting licensees may request, under specific conditions, that the 
Commission authorize Horse Racing as sports events and bets. Any approval of 
Horse Racing as sports events and bets will be specific to the sports betting 
licensee requesting the event or bet. 
(3) 
On the application for Horse Racing as sports events and bets, sports betting 
licensees must affirm the licensees have received consent from the following 
parties: 
(a) 
To offer in-state horse racing events as a sports event, sports betting 
licensees must affirm on the application that the licensee has received 
consent from the following parties:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
23 
(i) 
The Colorado Racing Commission; 
(ii) 
The racetrack where the race is conducted; and 
(iii) 
The association that represents the horse persons competing at all 
licensed class B Colorado horse track(s). This consent may be a 
part of the consent provided by the consent received in 5.4(3)(a)(ii). 
(b) 
To offer horse racing events that occur outside the state of Colorado, but 
inside the United States, as a sports event, sports betting licensees must 
affirm the licensees have received consent from the following parties: 
(i) 
The host racing commission, or if applicable Breed Specific Racing 
Commission, in the state where the race is conducted; 
(ii) 
The Colorado Racing Commission; 
(iii) 
All licensed class B Colorado horse track(s); 
(iv) 
The racetrack where the race is conducted; and 
(v) 
The association that represents the horse persons competing at the 
racetrack where the race is conducted. This consent may be a part 
of the consent provided by the consent received in 5.4(3)(b)(iv). 
(vi) 
For horse racing events, operators must also obtain the consent of 
the association that represents the horse persons competing at all 
licensed class B Colorado horse track(s). This consent may be a 
part of the consent provided by the consent received in 
5.4(3)(b)(iii). 
(c) 
To offer horse racing events that occur outside of the United States as a 
sports event, sports betting licensees must affirm the licensees have 
received consent from the following parties: 
(i) 
The Colorado Racing Commission; 
(ii) 
All licensed class B Colorado horse track(s); 
(iii) 
The racetrack where the race is conducted; and 
(iv) 
For horse racing events, the association that represents the horse 
persons competing at all licensed class B Colorado horse track(s). 
This consent may be a part of the consent provided by the consent 
received in 5.4(3)(c)(ii).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
24 
(4) 
To offer an Esport contest that is based on the sport of racing horses, and has 
been approved by the Director, sports betting licensees must affirm the licensees 
have received consent from the following parties: 
(a) 
All licensed class B Colorado horse track(s); 
(b) 
For horse racing events, the association that represents the horse persons 
competing at all licensed class B Colorado horse track(s). This consent 
may be a part of the consent provided by the consent received in 
5.4(4)(a). 
(5) 
Licensees must submit the application at least 72 hours prior to any new 
scheduled event requested. It shall be the responsibility of the operator 
requesting the event to obtain all the consents provided for in these rules. 
(6) 
The application shall be in a form as specified by the Division, including: 
(a) 
The name of the horse meet, sport event(s) or race; 
(b) 
Host track; 
(c) 
A description of its policies and procedures regarding event integrity; and 
(d) 
Whether the outcome can be verified. 
(7) 
The Director or Director’s designee will consider the following factors prior to 
determining whether to authorize Horse Racing as sports events: 
(a) 
Whether all required consents have been submitted; 
(b) 
Whether the outcome is determined solely by chance; 
(c) 
Whether the outcome can be verified; 
(d) 
Whether the event generating the outcome is conducted in a manner that 
ensures sufficient integrity controls exist so the outcome can be trusted; 
(e) 
That the outcome is not affected by any bet placed; and 
(f) 
Whether the event is conducted in conformity with all applicable laws. 
(8) 
The Commission has a duty to promulgate rules to ensure that activities related 
to fixed odds racing are conducted honestly and competitively. Where the 
holding, intermediary, or subsidiary company of a sports betting operator, internet 
sports betting operator, or master licensee is the holding, intermediary, or 
subsidiary company of the host-track, the sports betting licensee must provide 
documentation of the following conditions with the application for the racing 
sports event:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
25 
(a) 
That the consent given by the host-track to the sports betting licensee 
must be given to all licensed Sports Betting operations in Colorado; 
(b) 
That prior to commencing wagering on those events, any other consents 
given to the sports betting licensee related to the racing sport event, as 
required by Rule 5.4(3), be given to all licensed Sports Betting operations 
in Colorado; and 
(c) 
That the host-track shall make available to all licensed Sports Betting 
operations in Colorado, that racing sport event, race or content on the 
usual and customary terms, including price or commission, should they 
also wish to contract for that racing sport event, race or content. 
(9) 
A Content Provider that holds a sports betting license, has exclusive rights to 
racing content, and, is not connected to a licensed Sports Betting operator, 
Internet Sports Betting Operator or Master License, shall make available to all 
licensed Sports Betting operations in Colorado, that racing content on the usual 
and customary terms, including price, commission or discounts. A Content 
Provider may secure the consents required in this 5.4 (3) for a contracted Sports 
Betting Operator. Additionally, where more than one licensed Content Provider is 
operating in the state, those operators shall use their best efforts working 
together to provide the best content experience to the Colorado Sports bettor. 
(10) 
Payment on winning bets shall be made based on the order of finish posted and 
declared “official” unless otherwise stated in the house rules of the Sports Betting 
operation. 
(11) 
The Director or Director’s designee may request the consent of the Colorado 
Racing Commission in advance for the conduct of sports betting on Horse 
Racing as sports events and bets, for all sports betting operations, to fulfill the 
requirements of the consent needed in 5.4(3). 
(12) 
Nothing in these rules shall usurp on the authority of the Colorado Racing 
Commission and its regulation and conduct of Pari-Mutual Racing and wagering 
in Colorado. 
(13) 
This Rule 5.4 will expire twenty-four (24) months from the approval date of this 
Rule 5.4, unless otherwise repealed or extended by the Limited Gaming Control 
Commission prior to the expiration date. Any hearing, investigation, accusation, 
or other matter initiated by or pending before the Commission or the division of 
gaming prior to the expiration date will continue until completion of such matter 
including any associated administrative proceedings. Any and all authorizations 
for sports events that are authorized pursuant to this Rule 5.4 are voided as of 
the expiration date, twenty-four (24) months from the approval date of this Rule 
5.4, unless otherwise repealed or extended by the Commission prior to the 
expiration date.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
26 
BASIS AND PURPOSE FOR RULE 6 
The purpose of Rule 6 is to specify the rights, responsibilities, and duties of licensees; 
specify certain duties of licensees related to permitting access to the Division of 
information, records, and premises controlled by the licensee, require licensees to 
maintain sufficient financial reserves, require that certain information be publicly posted, 
direct the licensee to prohibit certain conduct, and establish procedures for patron 
disputes, dissolution of corporations, transfers of interests and terminations of licensee 
employment or licensure. The statutory basis for Rule 6 is found in sections 44-30-201, 
C.R.S., 44-30-202, C.R.S., 44-30-203, C.R.S., 44-30-204, C.R.S., 44-30-302, C.R.S., 
44-30-510, C.R.S., 44-30-528, C.R.S., 44-30-833, C.R.S. and part 15 of article 30 of 
title 44, C.R.S. 
RULE 6  
RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF LICENSEES Effective 4/14/20 
6.1 
Responsibility of licensee. 
Responsibility for the employment and maintenance of lawful methods of operation 
rests with the licensee, and willful or persistent use or toleration of methods of operation 
considered unlawful by the Commission is prohibited. Each licensee shall fully and 
timely perform each and every term, condition and duty required by the statutes and 
Rules and Regulations of the Commission. 
6.2 
Discovery of violations. 
Each licensee must immediately notify the Division of the discovery of a violation or of a 
suspected violation of article 30 of title 44, C.R.S., or the Rules and Regulations 
promulgated thereunder, or any other criminal violation occurring at a Sports Betting 
Operation. 
6.3 
Information to be furnished by licensee. 
(1) 
Reports and notices to the Division required by the Colorado Limited Gaming 
Act, or by the Rules and Regulations promulgated thereunder, must be made in 
writing, and must be submitted to the Division's main office in Golden, Colorado. 
(a) 
If any section of the Act or of the Colorado Sports Betting Regulations 
requires that a report or notice be made in a different manner, then the 
specified manner shall be used. 
(b) 
Delivery of notice may be made by United States mail, by personal or 
commercial delivery to the office, by facsimile transmission, or by 
electronic mail. Facsimile transmissions shall be made to the telephone 
number provided by the Division. Electronic mail transmissions shall be 
directed to the electronic mail address provided by the Division, or when 
available, by use of forms submitted from the Division's internet website.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
27 
(2) 
Each Master, Sports Betting Operator, Internet Sports Betting Operator and/or 
Vendor Major licensee must report to the Division annually, the full name and 
address of every person, including lending agencies, who has a right to share in 
sports betting revenues, whether as an owner, assignee, landlord, or otherwise 
or to whom any interest or share in the profits of sports betting has been pledged 
or hypothecated as security for a debt or deposited as a security for the 
performance of an act or to secure the performance of a contract of sale. 
(3) 
Each Master, Sports Betting Operator, Internet Sports Betting Operator and/or 
Vendor Major licensee must immediately report to the Division the name, date of 
birth, and social security number of all persons who obtain an ownership, 
financial, or equity interest in the licensee of ten percent or greater, or who have 
the ability to control the licensee, or who have the ability to exercise significant 
influence over the licensee, or who is a lender from which the licensee currently 
has an outstanding loan. 
(4) 
Any person licensed by the Commission, and any associated person to a 
licensee, must make written notification to the Division of any criminal conviction 
and criminal charge pending against such person within ten days of such 
person's arrest, summons, charge or conviction. This notification requirement 
shall not apply to non-felony traffic violations unless they result in the person 
being taken into custody. Failure to make proper notification to the Division may 
be grounds for a disciplinary action. 
6.4 
Inspections. 
A Master, Sports Betting Operator, Internet Sports Betting Operator and Vendor Major 
licensee must immediately make available for inspection by the Commission, Director, 
or its agents or investigators, local sheriffs, or their agents or investigators, and police 
departments upon demand, all papers, books, and records produced, used or kept in 
connection with sports betting, and all portions of the premises where sports betting is 
conducted or where a sports betting system is housed. Upon demand, employees and 
agents of the Commission and Division, must be given immediate access to any portion 
of the premises of a Master, Sports Betting Operator, Internet Sports Betting Operator 
and Vendor Major licensee for the purpose of inspecting or examining records or 
documents, sports betting systems, or the conduct of sports betting activity. 
6.5 
Access to premises and production of records. 
No applicant or licensee, or applicant or licensee's employee or agent may neglect or 
refuse to produce records or evidence or to give information on lawful demand by the 
Commission or the Division. No applicant or licensee shall interfere or attempt to 
interfere with lawful efforts by the Commission or Division to obtain or produce such 
information.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
28 
6.6 
Employee on premises. 
When a Sports Betting Operator or Master Licensee is open for play by the public, there 
must be a Key Employee of either the Sports Betting Operator or Master Licensee 
present on the premises to supervise the operation of the Sports Betting Operation. 
6.7 
Support and key licensee identification. 
Every person licensed as a support or key employee licensee must wear in plain view 
identification issued by the Commission, Division or Licensee. This section shall not 
apply to employees engaged in undercover security operations for the licensee, except 
that all licensees must have their license identification badges in their possession while 
working and must present them to Division employees upon demand. 
6.8 
Display of license. 
All persons licensed as a Master, Sports Betting Operator, or Internet Sports Betting 
Operator must display their licenses, in a manner plainly visible to the public, on the 
premises or Internet Sports Betting Operations office. 
6.9 
Payment of winners - reserves. 
All persons licensed as a Master, Sports Betting Operator, or Internet Sports Betting 
Operator shall at all times have available sufficient financial reserves to pay those 
sports bets accepted, calculated, and settled by that Sports Betting Operation. A 
reserve in the form of cash or cash equivalents segregated from operational funds, an 
irrevocable letter of credit, payment processor reserves and receivables, or a 
combination thereof, shall be maintained in the amount necessary to cover the 
outstanding sports betting liability. The outstanding sports wagering liability shall be the 
sum of the following amounts: amounts held by a Master Licensee, Sports Betting 
Operator Licensee, or Internet Sports Betting Operator Licensee for player accounts; 
aggregate amounts accepted by a Master Licensee, Sports Betting Operator Licensee, 
or Internet Sports Betting Operator Licensee as wagers on sports events whose 
outcomes have not been determined; and amounts owed but unpaid by a Master 
Licensee, Sports Betting Operator Licensee, or Internet Sports Betting Operator 
Licensee on winning wagers through the period established by a Master Licensee, 
Sports Betting Operator Licensee, or Internet Sports Betting Operator Licensee for 
honoring winning wagers. An accounting of this reserve shall be made available for 
inspection to the Division upon request. The method of reserve shall be submitted to 
and approved by the Director or the Director’s designee prior to implementation. 
Payment must be made to winners and participants by crediting their internet betting 
account, cash, or by check drawn upon a bank, or other financial institution, chartered 
by the State of Colorado or any other state or the United States Government, or by 
bond approved by the Director or the Director’s designee, within 24 hours of any bona-
fide demand by a winner or participant for payment, or within a reasonable time frame 
as approved if by bond. Any check issued by a Master, Sports Betting Operator, or 
check or account credit paid by an Internet Sports Betting Operator to any winner of a

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
29 
sports betting activity must, at the time of issuance and until cashed or six months has 
expired (whichever is earlier), be backed by and drawn upon sufficient funds to cover 
the full amount of the check or account credit issued by a Master, Sports Betting 
Operator, and/or Internet Sports Betting Operator. 
6.10 House rules. 
Master or Sports Betting Operator licensees and an Internet Sports Betting Operator 
shall adopt comprehensive house rules. Master or Sports Betting Operator licensees 
must post prominently and have available for inspection their house rules on the 
licensed premises. An Internet Sports Betting Operator must post prominently and have 
available on their internet site and mobile applications its house rules. Initial house rules 
shall be approved by the Director or the Director’s designee that include, at a minimum, 
the following: 
(1) 
Method for calculation and payment of winning wagers; 
(2) 
Effect of schedule changes; 
(3) 
Method of notifying patrons of odds or proposition changes; 
(4) 
Acceptance of wagers at other than posted terms; 
(5) 
Expiration of any winning ticket one year after the date of the event; 
(6) 
Lost ticket policy; 
(7) 
Method of contacting the Sports Betting Operator for questions and complaints; 
(8) 
Description of prohibited sports betting participants; 
(9) 
Method of funding a sports wager; 
(10) 
Instructions on how to redeem a winning bet by mail, if the Sports Betting 
Operator allows patrons to do so; 
(11) 
Maximum payouts; however, such limits shall only be established through limiting 
the amount wagered and cannot be applied to reduce a winning wager amount; 
and 
(12) 
A policy by which the Sports Betting Operator can cancel or void wagers in 
accordance with these rules, including defining “obvious error.” 
(a) 
The house rules, together with any other information the Director deems 
appropriate, shall be conspicuously displayed in the sports betting 
wagering area, posted on the Operator’s internet website, and included in 
the terms and conditions of the sports betting account and copies shall be 
made readily available to patrons.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
30 
(b) 
Amendments to the house rules must be filed with the Division highlighting 
the amendment(s). The Director or the Director’s designee may at any 
time request additional explanation or modification of the changes. 
(13) 
A clear statement that the person who accepts and settles a wager is responsible 
for receiving and addressing any patron disputes. 
6.11 Prohibited sports betting participant. 
(1) 
A prohibited sports betting participant must refrain from engaging in sports 
betting in the state of Colorado on the prohibited sports events and/or on the 
prohibited Sports Betting Operation platform(s). 
(2) 
A prohibited sports betting participant must disclose his or her status as a 
prohibited sports betting participant to all relevant persons and/or governing 
bodies. Failure to comply with the provisions of this rule may result in disciplinary 
action up to and including criminal prosecution. 
(3) 
A Sports Betting Operation shall make commercially reasonable efforts to 
confirm that the patron is not a prohibited sports betting participant. 
(4) 
A sports wagering ticket may be received as a tip wager by an employee of a 
sports betting operator or master license so long as the receiver of tip wager did 
not solicit the sports wagering ticket, the receiver did not participate in the 
selection of the wager and the sports betting ticket is placed into a tip pool. 
6.12 Advertising. 
No licensee shall allow, conduct, or participate in any false or misleading advertising 
concerning its Sports Betting Operations. 
6.13 Wager Settlement. 
(1) 
It is the responsibility of all Sports Betting Operations to attempt to resolve all 
valid wager settlement disputes directly with the patron. A wager settlement 
dispute is valid when a patron submits a written wager settlement dispute to the 
Sports Betting Operation via mail or electronic mail to the appropriate customer 
service address and when a winning wager was: 
(a) 
Settled as a losing wager; 
(b) 
Settled as a winning wager but the payout was incorrect; 
(c) 
Voided by the Sports Betting Operation prior to settlement; or 
(d) 
Settled but the Sports Betting Operation has not paid out the winnings.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
31 
(2) 
A Sports Betting Operation may resolve any verbal wager settlement dispute as 
a customer service complaint. Verbal wager settlement disputes not resolved in 
the first contact must be submitted by the patron as a valid wager settlement 
dispute. 
(3) 
Upon receipt of a valid wager settlement dispute, the Sports Betting Operation 
must investigate and provide the patron with a written response within ten (10) 
business days. The response must state the Sports Betting Operation’s decision 
regarding whether or not it will pay out on the wager. 
(4) 
If the Sports Betting Operation determines it will not pay out on the wager, the 
response must provide an explanation stating minimum facts and any other 
relevant information supporting the decision, as well as a statement informing the 
patron of their right to appeal the decision when the amount in dispute is at least 
$1,250. 
(5) 
It is the responsibility of all Sports Betting Operations to log all valid wager 
settlement disputes it receives. The log must document the: date the written 
wager settlement dispute was received; patron name; patron account number; 
wager description; amount wagered; purported payoff; and the Sports Betting 
Operation’s action taken. This record should be kept by year and must be kept 
for a minimum of twelve (12) months. 
(6) 
If the Sports Betting Operation declines to pay a wager settlement dispute with a 
patron involving at least $1250, the aggrieved patron may submit the initial wager 
settlement dispute and the Sports Betting Operation’s response to the Division 
for further review. The dispute must be submitted in the form and manner as 
prescribed by the Division’s website. Submissions not constituting a valid wager 
settlement dispute or reaching the minimum threshold amount will be treated as 
regulatory complaints. 
(7) 
Upon receipt of a qualifying submission, the Division will investigate the matter 
and the Director or the Director’s designee will determine whether the wager 
should be paid. The patron and the Sports Betting Operation will be notified 
within ten (10) days of the completion of the investigation of the decision and the 
Director will issue an order on the matter. If the wager should be paid, the Sports 
Betting Operation must contact the patron within ten (10) business days of the 
order being issued to tender the funds. 
6.14 Closing of a Sports Betting Operation; Dissolution. 
(1) 
Closing of a Sports Betting Operation. 
(a) 
A Sports Betting Operation must notify the Division of any temporary or 
permanent closing plans at least sixty (60) days prior to closing the Sports 
Betting Operation or as soon as the Operation knows that closing is 
imminent, whichever period is shorter.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
32 
(b) 
Within thirty (30) days of notice to the Division, the Sports Betting 
Operation must provide the Division with a closing plan regarding the 
disposition of outstanding tickets and futures wagers. 
(2) 
Closing of an Internet Sports Betting Operation. 
(a) 
An Internet Sports Betting Operation must notify the Division of any 
permanent cessation of operation number at least sixty (60) days prior to 
operations ceasing, or the change of ownership, or as soon as the 
Operation knows that closing is imminent, whichever period is shorter. 
(b) 
Within 30 days of notice to the Division, the Internet Sports Betting 
Operation must provide the Division with a closing plan regarding the 
disposition of player accounts, funds in those accounts, and futures 
wagers. 
(3) 
Upon the dissolution of a Sports Betting Operation, or an Internet Sports Betting 
Operation that is a corporation, partnership or association, the Operation shall 
surrender the license within 10 days of the dissolution effective date. 
6.15 Transfers of interest. 
Except as provided in Colorado Limited Gaming Control Commission Rule 4.5, no 
person may sell, lease, purchase, convey, or acquire an interest in a Master, Sports 
Betting Operator, Internet Sports Betting Operator, or Vendor Major licensee, without 
the prior approval of the Commission. 
6.16 Termination of qualifying licensee, manager, or agent. 
Upon the termination of a manager's or agent's affiliation with the licensee, the licensee 
must name one or more new managers or agents, including temporary appointments 
until a permanent appointment is made, and notify the Division within seven days. 
6.17 Post-termination matters. 
Upon termination of a Master, Sports Betting Operator, Internet Sports Betting Operator, 
or Vendor Major license for any reason, no further sports betting activity shall be 
conducted by said licensee or, or on the previously designated sports betting wagering 
area . After such termination, at a date designated by the Director, said licensee shall 
submit to the Division a final accounting and surrender the license.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
33 
6.18 Restrictions on time, place, and structures. 
Sports betting conducted pursuant to article 30 of title 44, C.R.S. and these Rules shall 
be permitted 24 hours a day, three hundred and sixty-five days a year. During leap 
years, this shall be three hundred and sixty-six days a year. Sports betting may only 
take place within the sports betting wagering area of a Master License establishment or 
online by an Internet Sports Betting licensee possessing a license to conduct such 
sports betting activity. Online sports betting may take place in any location within the 
state of Colorado via a licensed Internet Sports Betting Operator, unless an area is 
deemed by the Commission or Division Director to be an area where betting may not 
occur. Boundaries of an area so defined will be made available to Internet Sports 
Betting Operators. 
6.19 Sports Betting Wagering Area 
(1) 
Sports betting offered by a Master License or a Master License through a Sports 
Betting Operator may only be conducted in approved locations within the 
casino’s designated and approved area. The designated area may include: 
(a) 
All or part of the designated approved gaming area for limited gaming; or 
(b) 
Other portions of the master licensee’s premises as approved; 
(2) 
The Designated area excludes areas authorized for support services pursuant to 
section 44-30-1505(5)(c) 
(3) 
Any bet placed outside the designated area within a casino may only be 
accepted by an Internet Sports Betting Operator. 
6.20 Pools, shared liquidity pools, contests and weekly pick events. 
(1) 
Pool, shared liquidity pool, contest or weekly pick event, means a betting or 
promotional offering where patrons may make selections of outcomes on a set 
number of sports events on a card in order to enter for a chance to win all or a 
portion of the prize pool. 
(2) 
Prior to offering a pool, contest or weekly pick event that will be made available 
to patrons in Colorado, or a shared liquidity pool available to patrons in Colorado 
and other jurisdictions, with the prize pool being comprised of entry fees collected 
from patrons in multiple jurisdictions, a Sports Betting Operation must obtain 
approval from the Director. The request must provide a detailed description of the 
pool, shared liquidity pool, contest or weekly pick event, and must include the 
rules, requirements for entry, the rake and winning pay out(s). Once a Sports 
Betting Operation receives approval to offer a pool, shared liquidity pool, contest 
or weekly pick event the Sports Betting Operation shall not be required to seek 
additional approvals from the Director for each subsequent offering that is 
substantially similar.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
34 
(3) 
The Sports Betting Operation shall be responsible for establishing the rake. The 
Sports Betting Operation’s rake collected from patrons that enter a pool, shared 
liquidity pool, contest or weekly pick while located in the State of Colorado, less 
any rake adjustment, if applicable, shall be considered net sports betting 
proceeds and are subject to all taxes and tax requirements outlined in Part 15 of 
the Colorado Limited Gaming Act. 
(4) 
At no time shall the calculation resulting from a rake adjustment be negative. 
(5) 
The rake rate must be the same for all jurisdictions participating in a shared 
liquidity pool available to patrons in Colorado and other jurisdictions. 
(6) 
Agents or proxies shall not be allowed in a betting offering. A pool, shared 
liquidity pool, contest or weekly pick event that is offered for promotional or other 
purpose that do not involve activity that can be characterized as gambling and/or 
sports betting in violation of Colorado laws and Regulations must identify any 
agent and/or proxy acting on behalf of any participant and the name of that 
individual. 
BASIS AND PURPOSE FOR RULE 7 
The purpose of Rule 7 is to establish a Sports Betting Operations Fee to defray the cost 
of regulating the sports betting industry, specify the requirements regarding the 
certification, assessment and security of sports betting systems and kiosks, direct 
Sports Betting Operations to establish internal control procedures, including accounting 
controls, outline reporting requirements and the computation of taxes, establish 
geofence and sports betting account requirements, and to outline procedures for 
change control. The statutory basis for Rule 7 is found in sections 44-30-102, C.R.S., 
44-30-201, C.R.S., 44-30-202, C.R.S., 44-30-203, C.R.S., 44-30-302, C.R.S., 44-30-
503, C.R.S., 44-30-510, C.R.S., 44-30-528, C.R.S., 44-30-833, C.R.S., 44-30-1501, 
C.R.S, and part 15 of article 30 of title 44, C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
35 
RULE 7  
REQUIREMENTS OF SPORTS BETTING OPERATIONS Effective 
4/14/20 
7.1 
Sports Betting Operations fee. 
(1) 
The Commission declares that, due to increased administrative and personnel 
costs of regulating sports betting, outside any and all costs of the licensing 
process already contemplated by the licensing fees, and to ensure that tax 
revenue from net sports betting proceeds is directed to intended beneficiaries, an 
annual fee, known as a Sports Betting Operations Fee, shall be established. The 
Sports Betting Operations Fee is not a tax, but a fee designed to defray the cost 
to the Commission and Division of providing the regulatory support services to 
sports betting licensees as set out in section 44-30-1501, C.R.S., et seq., and as 
reflected by the Commission and Division’s duties in Rules 6, 7, 8, and 9. By 
collecting fees that fund the regulatory commitment of the Commission and 
Division, the Commission may ensure tax collections are directed to the intended 
beneficiaries. 
(2) 
The Commission shall set the Sports Betting Operations Fee before June 1st of 
each fiscal year and shall review the amount of the fees annually. 
(3) 
In setting the Sports Betting Operations Fee, the Commission shall endeavor to 
approximate the Commission and Division’s costs of providing regulatory 
compliance services to sports betting licensees and shall consider at least the 
following factors: 
(a) 
The projected budget for the upcoming fiscal year, presented to the 
Commission by the Director no later than the regularly scheduled May 
Commission meeting; 
(b) 
Projected number of Sports Betting Operators and Internet Sports Betting 
Operators, and Master Licensees conducting sports betting or internet 
sports betting themselves; 
(c) 
Projected percentages for all wagers taken online and in sports books 
located in licensed casinos; and 
(d) 
Total Commission appropriation for operational expenses related to sports 
betting, other than the Commission’s direct and indirect costs of 
processing a licensee’s application and conducting background 
investigations.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
36 
(4) 
On or before July 31st, except fiscal year 2020 shall be remitted before May 1st, of 
each year, a Sports Betting Operator, Internet Sports Betting Operator, and 
Master Licensee conducting sports betting or internet sports betting itself, shall 
remit the required Sports Betting Operations Fee. Failure to comply with this 
requirement may result in a fine, penalty, or revocation of license. Should a 
licensee begin operations after the remittance date in that fiscal year the required 
operational fee shall be submitted prior to commencing operations. In those 
cases, the fee may be prorated by the Director. Fees or partial fees shall not be 
refunded if a licensee ceases operations. 
7.2 
System assessment. 
(1) 
Each Sports Betting Operation shall, within ninety (90) days of commencing 
operations, and annually thereafter, perform a system integrity and security 
assessment of sports betting systems and online sports betting systems 
conducted by an independent professional selected by the licensee and subject 
to licensure and approval of the Director or Director’s designee. Should a 
licensee be operating under a temporary license, they shall perform a system 
and security assessment within one year following the initial ninety (90) day 
assessment. The independent professional’s report on the assessment shall be 
submitted to the Division and shall include: 
(a) 
Scope of review; 
(b) 
Name and company affiliation of the individual(s) who conducted the 
assessment; 
(c) 
Date of assessment; 
(d) 
Findings; 
(e) 
Recommended corrective action, if applicable; and 
(f) 
The operator’s response to the findings and recommended corrective 
action. 
(2) 
If the independent professional’s report recommends corrective action, the 
Sports Betting Operation must provide the Division with a resolution plan which 
details the Sports Betting Operation’s actions and schedule to implement the 
corrective action. Once the corrective action has been taken, the operator will 
provide the Division with documentation evidencing completion. 
7.3 
Sports betting transactions. 
To conduct sports betting retail transactions, a Sports Betting Operation shall submit a 
plan to the Commission that meets the requirements, and shall be approved by the 
Director or Director’s designee. Sports betting transactions shall be conducted from:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
37 
(1) 
A Counter located in the sports betting wagering area or other window locations 
as approved by the Director or Director’s designee; 
(2) 
Sports betting kiosks in locations as approved by the Director or Director’s 
designee; or 
(3) 
A designated window in the cashier’s cage for the redemption of winning sports 
betting tickets, only if the counter in the sports betting wagering area is closed. 
7.4 
Security requirements. 
(1) 
Sports Betting Operations within a licensed facility shall be designed to promote 
optimum security of the licensed facility, and shall include the installation and 
maintenance of security and surveillance equipment, including closed circuit 
television equipment, pursuant to the security requirements set forth in the limited 
gaming ICMP and any other specifications approved by the Director or Director’s 
designee. 
(2) 
The Commission shall have access to the primary server location in Colorado 
and the information contained therein. All information necessary for the Division 
to conduct any investigation shall be provided to the Division immediately upon 
request. 
(3) 
A Sports Betting Operation shall submit a surveillance plan for approval by the 
Director or Director’s designee prior to accepting wagers in any approved sports 
betting area or approved sports betting kiosk locations in the licensed facility. 
7.5 
Internal control procedures. 
Prior to beginning sports betting activity, a Sports Betting Operation must submit for 
approval internal controls for the following: 
(1) 
In the event of a failure of the sports betting system’s ability to pay winning 
wagers, the Sports Betting Operation shall have internal controls detailing the 
method of paying winning wagers. The Sports Betting Operation shall also file an 
incident report for each system failure and document the date, time, and reason 
for the failure along with the date and time the system is restored with the 
Division; 
(2) 
User access controls for all sports betting personnel; 
(3) 
Segregation of duties; 
(4) 
Automated and manual risk management procedures; 
(5) 
Procedures for identifying and reporting fraud and suspicious conduct, including 
identifying unusual betting activity and reporting such activity to an Independent 
Integrity Monitoring Provider;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
38 
(6) 
Procedures to prevent betting by prohibited sports betting participants; 
(7) 
Procedures for Sports Betting Operation-imposed exclusion of patrons, including 
the following: 
(a) 
Providing a notification containing operator-imposed exclusion status and 
general instructions for resolution; 
(b) 
Ensuring that immediately upon executing the operator-imposed exclusion 
order, no new wagers or deposits are accepted from the patron, until such 
time as the operator-imposed exclusion has been revoked; and 
(c) 
Ensuring that the patron is not prevented from withdrawing any or all of 
their account balance, provided that the Sports Betting Operation 
acknowledges that the funds have cleared, and that the reason(s) for 
exclusion would not prohibit a withdrawal. 
(8) 
Description of anti-money laundering compliance standards, which shall include 
limitations placed on anonymous betting at the sports betting kiosks; 
(9) 
Process for submitting or receiving approval of all types of wagers available to be 
offered by the system; 
(10) 
Description of process for accepting wagers and issuing pay outs, plus any 
additional controls for accepting wagers and issuing pay outs in excess of 
$10,000; 
(11) 
Description of a process for accepting multiple wagers from one patron in a 
twenty-four (24) hour cycle, including a process to identify patron structuring of 
wagers to circumvent recording and reporting requirements; 
(12) 
Detail the procedure for reconciliation of assets and documents contained in a 
sports betting wagering area cashier’s drawer, sports betting kiosks, and online 
sports betting, which shall include the drop and count procedures for sports 
betting kiosks; 
(13) 
Procedures for cashing winning tickets at the cage after the sports betting 
wagering area has closed, if applicable; 
(14) 
Procedures for accepting value game chips for sports wagers, if applicable; 
(15) 
Procedures for issuance and acceptance of promotional funds and free bets for 
sports betting; 
(16) 
Description of all integrated third-party systems; 
(17) 
Identifying and restricting prohibited sports betting participants;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
39 
(18) 
Instituting a process to close out dormant accounts; 
(19) 
Detail procedures for making adjustments to a patron’s account, providing a 
method for a patron to close out an account, and detail how a patron will be 
refunded after the closure of an account; 
(20) 
If the sports betting system allows online betting, a method for verifying 
geolocation systems to establish patrons’ geographic locations; 
(21) 
Maintaining the security of identity and financial information of patrons; 
(22) 
Detailed problem gambling program procedures; 
(23) 
Secure method for implementing an online and on location responsible gaming 
and self-exclusion program, including what account limits may be set by patrons; 
(24) 
Method for securely issuing, modifying, and resetting a patron’s account 
password, Personal Identification Number (PIN), biometric login, or other 
approved security feature, when applicable; 
(25) 
Methods of patron notification including any password or security modification via 
electronic or regular mail, text message, or other manner approved by the 
Director or Director’s designee. Such methods shall include at a minimum: 
(a) 
Proof of identity, if in person; 
(b) 
The correct response to two or more challenge questions; 
(c) 
Strong authentication; or 
(d) 
Two factor authentication. 
(26) 
Procedures for receiving, investigating and responding to all patron complaints 
and submitting any unresolved patron complaint reports to the Division; 
(27) 
Detail the location of the sports betting servers, including any third party remote 
location servers, and what controls will be in place to ensure security of the 
sports betting servers; 
(28) 
Terms and conditions for sports betting shall be included as an appendix; 
(29) 
Description of the process for line setting and line moving; 
(30) 
If allowed, method of redeeming lost tickets; 
(31) 
Method by which the Sports Betting Operation will identify and cancel wagers in 
accordance with Rule 7.6 (12), including defining “obvious error”; 
(32) 
A process for voiding wagers.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
40 
(33) 
A process for implementing the change management process detailed in these 
Rules; and 
(34) 
Any other internal control deemed necessary by the Director or the Director’s 
designee. 
(35) 
Beginning on July 1, 2023, Sport Betting Operations need procedures that 
ensure that all Sports Betting Operations follow the current IRS standards before 
making sports betting payments and perform a gaming intercept as required for 
all sports betting payments as outlined in the Limited Gaming Internal Control 
Minimum Procedures Section 1 H. 
The Sports Betting Operation shall stamp or otherwise mark each page of the internal 
control procedures submitted to the Commission with the word “CONFIDENTIAL” if the 
material submitted is not subject to disclosure under 44-30-1507, C.R.S., and this Rule 
7. 
7.6 
Sport betting system requirements. 
(1) 
Certification testing. 
(a) 
Prior to conducting sports betting, the entire sports betting system used in 
conjunction with the Sports Betting Operation shall be submitted to a 
Colorado approved independent testing laboratory for certification testing. 
(b) 
A Colorado approved independent testing laboratory shall certify that the 
sports betting system used in conjunction with the Sports Betting 
Operation meets or exceeds the standards approved by the Commission, 
and the standards established by this document. Sports Betting 
Operations are prohibited from offering sports betting in Colorado without 
such certification. 
(c) 
All wagers shall be initiated, received, and otherwise made within the 
State of Colorado unless otherwise permitted by the Commission in 
accordance with applicable federal and state laws. Consistent with the 
intent of the United States Congress as articulated in the Unlawful Internet 
Gambling Enforcement Act of 2006 (31 U.S.C. §§5361 et seq.), the 
intermediate routing of electronic data relating to a lawful intrastate wager 
authorized under this provision shall not determine the location or 
locations in which such wager is initiated, received, or otherwise made. 
(d) 
A Sports Betting Operation shall document and maintain any system 
malfunction or deviation from the sports betting system and maintain that 
data for a minimum period of three (3) years. 
(e) 
A Sports Betting Operation shall provide the Director or Director’s 
designee, with betting transactions and related data as deemed necessary 
and in a manner approved by the Director or the Director’s designee.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
41 
(2) 
Server location. 
(a) 
A Sports Betting Operation must locate the primary server in the state of 
Colorado. The primary server shall be the server responsible for the 
acceptance and storage of patron wagers. The location selected must 
have adequate security, including twenty-four (24) hour surveillance, and 
be licensed and approved by the Director or Director’s designee. 
(b) 
Third party data storage facilities or data storage managers must obtain a 
vendor minor license. 
(3) 
Cloud storage of duplicate data. 
(a) 
The Director or Director’s designee may approve the use of cloud storage 
for duplicate data, or data not related to transactional wagering data upon 
written request by a Sports Betting Operation. 
(4) 
Sports betting system requirements; logging. 
(a) 
All online sports betting systems authorized by the Division and these 
Rules shall be designed to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of all 
patron communications and ensure the proper identification of the sender 
and receiver of all communications. If communications are performed 
across a public or third-party network, the system shall either encrypt the 
data packets or utilize a secure communications protocol to ensure the 
integrity and confidentiality of the transmission. 
(b) 
Sports betting systems shall employ a mechanism capable of maintaining 
a separate copy of all of the information required to be logged in this 
section on a separate and independent logging device capable of being 
administered by an employee with no incompatible function. If the online 
sports betting system can be configured such that any logged data is 
contained in a secure transaction file, a separate logging device is not 
required. 
(c) 
Sports betting systems shall provide promptly upon request, in a format 
required by the Commission, all online sports betting system data. Sports 
betting system data includes, but is not limited to, employee data and logs, 
geofence logs, player activity and betting information, and event logs 
related to Colorado Sports Betting Operations. 
(d) 
Requirements for system specifications and sports betting system logging 
shall be detailed by the Commission. Master, Sports Betting Operators, 
Internet Sports Betting Operators and sports betting Vendors shall 
address all such requirements in the internal controls submitted to the 
Commission for approval. 
(5) 
Bets.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
42 
Patron wagers placed in a Sports Betting Operation, self-service betting device 
or other approved area within a licensed facility shall be made with: 
(a) 
Cash; 
(b) 
Cash equivalent; 
(c) 
Credit or debit card; 
(d) 
Free bets; 
(e) 
Sports betting vouchers; 
(f) 
Value gaming chips; and 
(g) 
Any other means approved by the Director or Director’s designee. 
(6) 
Patron sports betting via credit or debit card. 
(a) 
A patron may place a wager via credit or debit card, whether the patron 
places the wager at a casino in the sports betting wagering area, sports 
betting kiosk, online, or by a mobile device. 
(b) 
Funding of an account may be made online, in person, or through an 
online account with an Internet Sports Betting Operator, on a bettor’s own 
personal computer or mobile device. Other methods of funding may be 
approved by the Director. 
(7) 
Wager displays. 
When displaying wagers to the public through the Sports Betting Operation’s 
close circuit television system, the display shall include, but is not limited to, the 
following: 
(a) 
The odds; and 
(b) 
A brief description of the event. 
(8) 
Ticket contents. 
Upon completion of a betting transaction, the patron shall receive an unalterable 
virtual or printed wager record which shall contain at a minimum the following 
information: 
(a) 
The date and time the wager was placed; 
(b) 
The date and time the event is expected to occur; 
(c) 
Any patron choices involved in the wager:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
43 
(i) 
Wager selection; 
(ii) 
Type of wager and line postings; 
(iii) 
Any special condition(s) applying to the wager; and 
(iv) 
Pay out, applicable at the time the wager is placed. 
(d) 
Total amount wagered, including any promotional/bonus credits, if 
applicable; 
(e) 
Event and market identifiers, if applicable; and, 
(f) 
Unique identification number of the wager record. 
(g) 
For printed wager records, the following must also be included: 
(i) 
Sports Betting Operation name; 
(ii) 
Unique sports betting device ID which issued the wager record; and 
(iii) 
Expiration period, if applicable. 
(9) 
Currency transaction reports and multiple transaction logs. Wagers and pay outs 
made under these rules shall be subject to the requirements of the Division. 
(10) 
Cancelled events and markets. The house rules and information available to the 
patron through the sports betting device, or upon request at a licensed facility, 
must clearly state what is to occur when an event or market is cancelled, 
including the handling of wagers with multiple events, such as parlays, where 
one or more of these legs are cancelled. If a single event or market is cancelled 
for any reason, all wagers are to be refunded in full as soon as reasonably 
possible. 
(11) 
Cancellation of wagers; prohibited sports betting participants. A Sports Betting 
Operation shall cancel a wager made by a prohibited sports betting participant 
and refund the amount wagered. A Sports Betting Operation must cancel a 
wager under this rule at the time the Sports Betting Operation becomes aware or 
should have been aware that the patron is a prohibited sports betting participant. 
(12) 
Cancellation of wagers. A Sports Betting Operation may, in its discretion, cancel 
an accepted wager for obvious error or in the case of a change in circumstance 
that makes grading the wager an impossibility. Obvious error shall be defined in 
the Sports Betting Operator’s house rules. Any cancellation of wagers shall be 
reported to the Division. 
(13) 
Cashier cancelled wagers. A cashier may not cancel a wager for which the 
cashier wrote the ticket and must instead call a supervisor to cancel the wager.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
44 
(14) 
Prohibiting wagers for good cause. 
(a) 
Pursuant to 44-30-1505 (7), C.R.S., a sports governing body may request 
that the Commission restrict, limit or exclude a type of wager based solely 
upon the actions of a single player. 
(b) 
A sports governing body may submit to the Director or Director’s designee 
in writing (by providing notice in such form and manner as the Director or 
Director’s designee may require) a request to restrict, limit or exclude a 
certain type of wager based solely upon the actions of a single player with 
respect to sporting events of such body, if the sports governing body 
believes that such type, form, or category of sports wagering with respect 
to sporting events of such body is contrary to public policy, unfair to 
consumers, may undermine the perceived integrity of such body or 
sporting events of such body, or affects the integrity of such body or 
sporting events of such body. 
(c) 
The Director or Director’s designee shall request comment from Sports 
Betting Operations on all such sports governing body requests. The 
Director or Director’s designee may also request comment from 
independent monitoring providers and other jurisdictions. 
(d) 
After giving due consideration to all comments received, the Director or 
Director’s designee shall, upon a demonstration of good cause from the 
requesting sports governing body, grant the request. The Director or 
Director’s designee shall respond to a request concerning a particular 
event before the start of the event, or if it is not feasible to respond before 
the start of the event, no later than 7 days after the request is made. If the 
Director or Director’s designee determines that the requesting sports 
governing body is more likely than not to prevail in successfully 
demonstrating good cause for its request, the Director or Director’s 
designee may provisionally grant the request of the sports governing body 
until the Director or Director’s designee makes a final determination as to 
whether the requesting sports governing body has demonstrated good 
cause. Absent such a provisional grant by the Director or Director’s 
designee, Sports Betting Operations may continue to offer sports 
wagering on sporting events that are the subject of such a request during 
the pendency of the Director or Director’s designee’s consideration of the 
applicable request. 
(15) 
Entity wagering. 
Entity wagering is not permitted. Internet Sports Betting Operators and Sports 
Betting Operators shall only accept wagers from individuals, not including 
individuals acting on behalf of entities. 
(16) 
Promotions.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
45 
(a) 
Patrons must be able to access information pertaining to any promotions 
or bonuses available to them. This information must be clear and 
unambiguous, especially where promotions or bonuses are limited to 
certain events, markets, or when other specific conditions apply. 
(b) 
A Sports Betting Operation shall comply with Commission rules regarding 
complimentary play or any promotional event related to the conduct of 
sports betting. 
7.7 
Sports betting kiosks. 
(1) 
In general. 
(a) 
A Sports Betting Operator may utilize Self-service betting devices(kiosks) 
located in a licensed facility for betting transactions in conjunction with a 
sports betting system in a location approved by the Director or Director’s 
designee. 
(b) 
Self-service sports betting devices (kiosks) shall be subject to the 
approvals and other requirements of the Commission. 
(2) 
Testing and certification. Before being deployed for use at a licensed facility, all 
sports betting kiosks must be submitted to a Colorado approved independent 
testing laboratory for testing and receive the required certification. The Colorado 
approved independent testing laboratories shall certify that the sports betting 
kiosk meets or exceeds the most current Division approved version of standards 
for Kiosks, or equivalent standards as approved by the Commission, and the 
standards established by the Division. 
(3) 
Reconciliation. The Sports Betting Operation’s accounting department shall 
reconcile self-service sports betting devices (kiosks) at minimum every seven 
days, pursuant to internal controls. Any variance of $500.00 or more shall be 
documented by the accounting department and reported in writing to the 
Commission’s audit department within 5 business days after drop and count of 
kiosks. The report shall indicate the cause of the variance and shall contain any 
documentation required to support the stated explanation. 
(4) 
Transaction reports. Each self-service sports betting device (kiosk) or 
corresponding system shall be capable of generating a “Transaction Report,” 
which documents each attempted and completed transaction. Unless otherwise 
approved by the Commission, the report shall include, at a minimum: 
(a) 
The date and time; 
(b) 
A description of the transaction; 
(c) 
The value of credit card and debit card transactions;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
46 
(d) 
The value of currency dispensed and inserted; 
(e) 
The value of all sports betting vouchers dispensed and inserted; and 
(f) 
The value of all sports betting tickets dispensed and inserted. 
(5) 
Connection to sports betting system. 
(a) 
When used to redeem sports betting tickets or vouchers, sports betting 
kiosks shall work in conjunction with an approved sports betting system 
and shall be designed to: 
(i) 
Accurately obtain the unique identification number of the item 
presented for redemption and cause such information to be 
accurately and securely relayed to the sports betting system for the 
purpose of redemption; 
(ii) 
Issue currency or a sports wager voucher or both in exchange for 
the item presented only if the sports betting system has authorized 
and recorded the transaction; and 
(iii) 
Return a sports wager ticket and voucher to the patron when it 
cannot be validated by the sports betting system or is otherwise 
unredeemable. 
(b) 
When used to redeem sports wager vouchers, the sports betting kiosk or 
sports betting kiosk computer system shall be capable of generating a 
voucher redemption report for each gaming day. The report shall include 
the voucher’s unique identifier, the date and time of redemption and the 
value of the voucher. 
(c) 
When used to redeem sports wager tickets, the sports betting kiosk or 
sports betting kiosk computer system shall be capable of generating a 
ticket redemption report for each gaming day. The report shall include the 
ticket’s unique identifier, the date and time of redemption and the value of 
the ticket. 
(d) 
When used to issue sports wager vouchers, the sports betting kiosk or 
sports betting kiosk computer system shall be capable of generating a 
voucher issuance report for each gaming day. The report shall include the 
voucher’s unique identifier, the date and time of issuance and the value of 
the voucher. 
(e) 
When used for credit card and debit card transactions, the sports betting 
kiosk or sports betting kiosk computer system shall be capable of 
generating a credit card and debit card transaction report for each gaming 
day. The report shall include the transaction’s unique identifier, the date 
and time of transaction and the value of the transaction.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
47 
7.8 
Sports betting reports; betting revenue; computation of taxes; 
reconciliation. 
(1) 
Reports required. 
(a) 
The sports betting system shall be required to generate those reports 
necessary to record the adjusted gross receipts, patron liability, ticket 
redemption, and such other information relating to sports betting as 
deemed necessary by the Director or as required by internal controls. 
Such reporting shall be done using cash basis accounting. 
(b) 
To determine the daily win amount, the Sports Betting Operation’s 
accounting department shall compare a win report from the sports betting 
system to the reconciliation of the sports betting drawers. The operator 
shall be required to calculate and report adjusted gross sports betting 
receipts using the higher amount identified in such comparison, unless 
otherwise authorized in its internal controls. 
(c) 
The Sports Betting Operation shall permit duly authorized representatives 
of the Commission’s audit department to examine the operator’s accounts 
and records for the purpose of certifying total gross revenue receipts and 
adjusted gross revenue receipts. 
(d) 
Such information shall be provided as prescribed by the division. 
(2) 
Calculation of taxes. 
(a) 
Remittance of betting taxes shall be the sole responsibility of the licensee 
that accepts, calculates, and is responsible for settlement of the sports 
wager. Such responsibility shall be included in the operating agreements 
between parties. 
(b) 
In determining sports betting tax liability for a reporting period, a sports 
betting operator shall take the sum of taxable proceeds for all gaming 
days in the period and multiply by the decimal representation of the sports 
betting tax percentage. 
Taxable proceeds for a gaming day are the net sports betting proceeds for 
the gaming day minus the absolute value of any carry over loss from the 
previous gaming day. If the taxable proceeds for a gaming day result in a 
negative number, the taxable proceeds for that gaming day is zero and the 
resulting negative number is the carry over loss applied to the next gaming 
day. 
(c) 
Sports Betting Free Bets Reduction.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
48 
(i) 
Until January 1, 2023, when calculating “net sports betting 
proceeds” each month, a Sports Betting Operator or Internet Sports 
Betting Operator may: 
(A) 
Include all free bets placed by players with the Sports 
Betting Operator or; and 
(B) 
Carry forward any unused free bet credits accumulated on or 
before November 30, 2022. 
(ii) 
On and after January 1, 2023, when calculating “net sports betting 
proceeds” each month, a sports betting operator or Internet Sports 
Betting Operator shall include only a portion of the total free bets 
placed by players with the sports betting operator or Internet Sports 
Betting Operator, as follows: 
(A) 
On and after January 1, 2023, through June 30, 2024, no 
more than two and one-half percent of the total amount of all 
bets placed by players with that sports betting operator or 
Internet Sports Betting Operator each month; 
(B) 
On and after July 1, 2024, through June 30, 2025, no more 
than two and one-fourth percent of the total amount of all 
bets placed by players with that sports betting operator or 
Internet Sports Betting Operator each month; 
(C) 
On and after July 1, 2025, through June 30, 2026, no more 
than two percent of the total amount of all bets placed by 
players with that sports betting operator or Internet Sports 
Betting Operator each month; and 
(D) 
On and after July 1, 2026, no more than one and three-
quarters percent of the total amount of all bets placed by 
players with that sports betting operator or Internet Sports 
Betting Operator each month. 
(iii) 
On or after January 1, 2023, a sports betting operator or Internet 
Sports Betting Operator shall not: 
(A) 
Carry over to the next month any free bets placed in excess 
of the deduction allowed for any month; or 
(B) 
Carry forward any unused free bet credits accumulated 
before January 1, 2023.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
49 
7.9 
Accounting controls for the casino onsite Sports Betting Operation. 
(1) 
Internal audit procedures. The procedures and requirements outlined in this Rule 
shall apply to Sports Betting Operators and Sports Betting Operations. 
(2) 
Observation and testing of cashiering. 
(a) 
The Sports Betting Operator shall establish procedures for the observation 
and testing of the compliance with the system of internal controls for 
sports betting cashiering. 
(b) 
The internal auditor or equivalent shall observe and review, on a semi-
annual basis, the following procedures, at a minimum: 
(i) 
The countdown procedures; 
(ii) 
The casino cage accountability to the general ledger; 
(iii) 
The casino cage accountability to the main bank, vault, and change 
banks; 
(iv) 
Check cashing procedures; 
(v) 
Shift and day procedures; and 
(vi) 
Any other procedures deemed necessary by the Director or the 
Commission to ensure compliance with Limited Gaming ICMP. 
(c) 
The internal auditors or equivalent shall test, on a quarterly basis, the 
following procedures, at a minimum: 
(i) 
Reconcile summary sheets to physical instruments on a sample 
basis; 
(ii) 
Review processing of payments on returned checks; and 
(iii) 
If applicable, review procedures and controls over the primary, 
secondary, and non-value chip inventory. 
(d) 
Any other procedures deemed necessary by the Director or the 
Commission to ensure compliance with limited Gaming ICMP. 
(3) 
Accounting controls for the Sports Betting Operation. 
(a) 
A cashier shall begin a shift with an imprest amount sports betting 
inventory, consisting of currency and coin. No funds shall be added to or 
removed from the sports betting inventory during such shift except: 
(i) 
In collection of sports wagers;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
50 
(ii) 
In order to make change for a patron buying a sports betting ticket; 
(iii) 
In collection for the issuance of sports betting vouchers; 
(iv) 
In payment of winning or properly cancelled or refunded sports 
betting tickets; 
(v) 
In payment of sports betting vouchers; or 
(vi) 
In exchanges with the cashier’s cage, a satellite cage, or Sports 
Betting Operation booth vault supported by proper documentation 
which documentation shall be sufficient for accounting 
reconciliation purposes. 
(b) 
A “sports betting count sheet” shall be completed and signed by a 
supervisor, and the following information, at a minimum, shall be recorded 
thereon at the commencement of a shift: 
(i) 
The date, time, and shift of preparation; 
(ii) 
The denomination of currency and coin in the sports betting 
inventory issued to the cashier; 
(iii) 
The total amount of each denomination of currency and coin in the 
sports betting inventory issued to the cashier; 
(iv) 
The sports betting window number to which the cashier is assigned; 
and 
(v) 
The signature of the sports betting shift supervisor. 
(c) 
A cashier assigned to a cashier window shall count and verify the sports 
betting inventory at the sports betting vault, and shall agree the count to 
the sports betting count sheet. The cashier shall sign the count sheet 
attesting to the accuracy of the information recorded thereon. The sports 
betting inventory shall be placed in a cashier’s drawer and transported 
directly to the appropriate Sports Betting Operation booth window by the 
cashier. 
(d) 
If the sports betting window net receipts for the shift, as generated by the 
system, does not agree with the sports betting count sheet total plus the 
sports betting inventory, the shift supervisor shall record any overage or 
shortage. If the count does not agree, the cashier and the shift supervisor 
shall attempt to determine the cause of the discrepancy in the count. Any 
discrepancy that cannot be resolved by the cashier and the shift 
supervisor shall be reported in writing to the department supervisor in 
charge at such time. Any discrepancy in excess of $500 shall be reported 
to the Division. The report shall include the following:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
51 
(i) 
Date on which the discrepancy occurred; 
(ii) 
Shift during which the discrepancy occurred; 
(iii) 
Name of the cashier; 
(iv) 
Name of the supervisor; 
(v) 
Window number; and 
(vi) 
Amount of the discrepancy. 
(e) 
The Sports Betting Operation booth shift supervisor shall compare the 
cashier window net for the shift as generated by the terminal and if it 
agrees with the sports betting count sheet total plus the sports betting 
inventory, shall agree the count to the sports betting count sheet and sign 
the sports betting count sheet attesting to the accuracy. 
(4) 
Transactions. 
The Sports Betting Operator shall establish policies and procedures to ensure 
that all transactions that flow through the casino cage within the Sports Betting 
Operation are accounted for. These policies and procedures shall include, but 
are not limited to, the following: 
(a) 
All transactions shall be recorded on a main bank or vault accountability 
form or its equivalent on a per shift basis. 
(i) 
All increases or decreases to the main bank or vault shall be 
supported by the appropriate documentation. 
(ii) 
At the end of a shift, the cashiers assigned to the outgoing shift 
shall: 
(1) 
Record on a main bank or vault accountability form, or its 
equivalent, the face value of each cage inventory item 
counted and the total of the opening and closing cage 
inventories; and 
(2) 
Reconcile the total closing inventory with the total opening 
inventory. 
(b) 
At the conclusion of each gaming day, copies of the main bank or vault 
accountability forms and all supporting documentation shall be forwarded 
to the accounting department. 
(c) 
Signature requirements shall be established for outgoing and incoming 
cashiers.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
52 
(d) 
Any other policies and procedures deemed necessary by the Director to 
ensure compliance. 
7.10 Geofence requirement. 
(1) 
Geofence requirement. 
(a) 
In order to prevent unauthorized use of the internet or a mobile device to 
place a sports wager when a patron is not within the state of Colorado, the 
Sports Betting Operation shall: 
(i) 
Utilize a geofence system to reasonably detect the physical location 
of a patron attempting to access the online sports betting system 
and place a wager; and to monitor and block unauthorized attempts 
to access the online sports betting system in order to place a 
wager. 
(ii) 
The geofencing system shall ensure that any patron is located 
within the permitted boundary when placing any wager, and shall 
be equipped to dynamically monitor the patron’s location and block 
unauthorized attempts to access the online sports betting system in 
order to place a wager throughout the duration of the sports betting 
patron session. 
(2) 
The Director shall approve technical specifications for geolocation systems and 
any specific requirements related to geofence technology. The Director may 
require additional system requirements to combat emerging threats to the 
security of the geolocation system and verification of the patron’s or device 
location. 
7.11 Sports betting accounts. 
(1) 
Account required. 
(a) 
A Sports Betting Operation shall limit each patron to one (1) active and 
continuously used sports betting account and username. 
(b) 
A Sports Betting Operation shall implement rules and publish procedures 
to terminate all accounts of any sports betting account patron that 
knowingly and intentionally establishes or seeks to establish multiple 
active accounts, in contravention of this Rule, whether directly or by use of 
another person as a proxy. 
(2) 
Age and identify verification. 
A full identity check must be undertaken before a patron is allowed to place a 
wager:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
53 
(a) 
Only patrons twenty-one (21) years of age and older may deposit funds or 
participate in betting. The Sports Betting Operation must deny the ability to 
deposit funds or participate in betting to any person that submits a birth 
date that indicates they are under the legal participation age. 
(b) 
Patron verification must use commercially reasonable standards in 
conformity with Rule 6.11 to confirm that the patron is not a prohibited 
sports betting participant. 
(c) 
Details of patron verification must be kept in a secure manner. 
(d) 
Third-party service providers may be used for age and identity verification 
of patrons. 
(e) 
The operator must have a documented policy for the handling of patrons 
discovered to be using an account in a fraudulent manner, including but 
not limited to: 
(i) 
The maintenance of information about any patron’s activity, such 
that if fraudulent activity is detected, the regulatory body has all of 
the necessary information to take appropriate action; 
(ii) 
The suspension of any patron account discovered to be providing 
access to fraudulent patrons; and 
(iii) 
The treatment of deposits, wagers, and wins associated with a 
fraudulent patron’s account. 
(3) 
Patron account controls. 
(a) 
Patron protection information must be readily accessible to the patron. 
The patron protection information must contain at a minimum: 
(i) 
Information about potential risks associated with excessive 
participation, and where to get help related to betting responsibly; 
(ii) 
The self-imposed limitations shall be available to the patron at both 
the time of account registration and first deposit; 
(iii) 
A list of the available patron protection measures that can be 
invoked by the patron, such as self-imposed limits, and information 
on how to invoke those measures; and 
(iv) 
Mechanisms in place which detect unauthorized use of their 
account, such as reviewing credit card statements against known 
deposits.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
54 
(b) 
Patrons must be provided with an easy and obvious method to impose 
limitations for betting parameters including, but not limited to, deposits, 
wagers and time-based limitations. The self-imposed limitation method 
must provide the following functionality: 
(i) 
Upon receiving any self-imposed limitation order, the Sports Betting 
Operation must ensure that all specified limits are correctly 
implemented immediately or at the point in time that was clearly 
indicated to the patron; 
(ii) 
The self-imposed limitations set by a patron must not override more 
restrictive operator imposed limitations. The more restrictive 
limitations must take priority; 
(iii) 
Once established by a patron and implemented by the sports 
betting system, it must only be possible to reduce the severity of 
self-imposed limitations upon 24 hours’ notice, or as required by the 
Commission; and 
(iv) 
Self-imposed limitations must not be compromised by internal 
status events, such as self-imposed exclusion orders and 
revocations. 
(c) 
A master licensee is not required to treat a patron’s self-imposed 
limitations: 
(i) 
On limited gaming as applying to any sports betting activities that it 
conducts or that are conducted by its affiliated or contracting 
entities; or 
(ii) 
On sports betting as applying to any limited gaming activities it 
conducts or its affiliated limited gaming licensees conduct. 
(4) 
Account requirements. In order to establish a sports betting account, a Sports 
Betting Operation shall: 
(a) 
Create an electronic patron file, which shall include at a minimum: 
(i) 
The patron’s legal name; 
(ii) 
The patron’s date of birth; 
(iii) 
The patron’s Social Security number, or the last four digits thereof, 
or an equivalent identification number for a noncitizen patron, such 
as a passport or taxpayer identification number; 
(iv) 
The patron’s sports betting account number or username;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
55 
(v) 
The patron’s residential address; a post office box is not 
acceptable; 
(vi) 
The patron’s electronic mail address; 
(vii) 
The patron’s telephone number; 
(viii) 
Any other information collected from the patron used to verify his or 
her identity; 
(ix) 
The method used to verify the patron’s identity; and 
(x) 
The date of verification. 
(b) 
Encrypt all of the following information contained in an electronic patron 
file: 
(i) 
Any portion of the patron’s Social Security number or equivalent 
identification number for a noncitizen patron, such as a passport or 
taxpayer identification number; 
(ii) 
The patron’s passwords and PINs; and 
(iii) 
The patron’s personal financial information. 
(c) 
Verify the patron’s identity in accordance with: 
(i) 
Reliable forms of personal identification specified in internal 
controls; or 
(ii) 
Other methodology for remote multi-source authentication, which 
may include third party and governmental databases, as approved 
by the Director or Director’s designee. 
(d) 
Record the document number of the government issued identification 
credential examined, if applicable. If a government issued identification 
credential is not required for registration, the electronic record that details 
the process used to confirm patron identity must be recorded. 
(e) 
Require the patron to establish a password or other access security 
feature as approved by the Commission and advise the patron of the 
ability to utilize strong authentication log in protection. 
(f) 
Record the patron’s acceptance of the Sports Betting Operation’s or 
sports betting intermediary’s terms and conditions to participate in betting 
through the mobile application or any authorized digital platform accepting 
wagers online.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
56 
(g) 
Record the patron’s certification that the information provided to the 
operator is accurate and they are not a prohibited sports betting 
participant. 
(h) 
Record the patron’s acknowledgment that the legal age for sports betting 
is 21, and that he or she is prohibited from allowing any other person to 
access or use his or her sports betting account. 
(i) 
Notify the patron of the establishment of the account via electronic mail or 
regular mail. 
(5) 
Account funding. 
A patron’s sports betting account for sports betting may be funded through the 
use of: 
(a) 
A patron’s credit or debit card; 
(b) 
A patron’s deposit of cash or vouchers at a cashiering location approved 
by the Director or Director’s designee; 
(c) 
A patron’s reloadable prepaid card, which has been verified as being 
issued to the patron and is non-transferable; 
(d) 
Promotional credit; 
(e) 
Winnings; 
(f) 
Adjustments made by the Sports Betting Operation with documented 
notification to the patron; 
(g) 
ACH transfer, provided that the operator has security measures and 
controls to prevent ACH fraud regarding failed ACH deposits; 
(h) 
Wire transfer; or 
(i) 
Any other means approved by the Commission. 
(j) 
Accounts may be funded outside the state of Colorado in accordance with 
these Rules. 
(6) 
Failed ACH deposits. 
A failed ACH deposit attempt shall not be considered fraudulent if the patron has 
successfully deposited funds via an ACH transfer on a previous occasion with no 
outstanding chargebacks. Otherwise, the operator shall:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
57 
(a) 
Temporarily block the patron’s account for investigation of fraud after five 
(5) consecutive failed ACH deposit attempts within a 10-minute time 
period. If there is no evidence of fraud, the block may be vacated; and 
(b) 
Suspend the patron’s account after five (5) additional consecutive failed 
ACH deposit attempts within a 10-minute period. 
(7) 
Transfer of funds prohibited. A Sports Betting Operation shall not permit a patron 
to transfer funds from a patron account to another patron account. 
(8) 
Account review requirements. All adjustments to patron accounts for amounts of 
$500.00 or under shall be periodically reviewed by supervisory personnel as set 
forth in the Sports Betting Operator’s internal controls. All other adjustments shall 
be authorized by supervisory personnel prior to being entered. 
(9) 
Account information. 
(a) 
Sports betting systems shall provide an account statement with account 
details to a patron on demand, which shall include detailed account 
activity for at least the prior six (6) months. In addition, an online sports 
betting system shall, upon request, be capable of providing a summary 
statement of all patron activity during the past two (2) years. 
(b) 
A Sports Betting Operation shall periodically re-verify a patron’s 
identification upon reasonable suspicion that the patron’s identification has 
been compromised. 
(10) 
Account closure. 
A sports betting system shall provide a conspicuous and readily accessible 
method for a patron to close his or her account through the account management 
or similar page or through the sports betting system’s customer support team. 
Any balance remaining in a patron’s sports betting account closed by a patron 
shall be refunded pursuant to the operator’s internal controls. 
(11) 
Patron account withdrawal. 
(a) 
A patron must be allowed to withdraw the funds maintained in his or her 
account, whether such account is open or closed. 
(b) 
A Sports Betting Operation must honor such patron request to withdraw 
funds within five (5) business days of the request, unless the conditions 
set forth in subsection (c) are met.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
58 
(c) 
The Sports Betting Operation may decline to honor a patron request to 
withdraw funds only if the Sports Betting Operator believes in good faith 
that the patron engaged in either fraudulent conduct or other conduct that 
would put the Sports Betting Operator in violation of the law. In such 
cases, the Sports Betting Operator shall: 
(i) 
Provide notice to the patron of the nature of the investigation of the 
account; and 
(ii) 
Conduct its investigation in a reasonable and expedient fashion, 
providing the patron additional written notice of the status of the 
investigation every tenth business day starting from the day the 
original notice was provided to the patron. 
(d) 
For purposes of this provision, a request for withdrawal will be considered 
honored if it is processed by the Sports Betting Operator notwithstanding a 
delay by a payment processor, credit card issuer, or the custodian of a 
financial account. 
(12) 
Dormant patron accounts. A Sports Betting Operation shall consider a patron 
account to be dormant if the patron has not logged into the account for at least 
three (3) years. A dormant account shall be closed by the Sports Betting 
Operation. 
(13) 
Unclaimed funds in a dormant patron account. 
(a) 
Subject to the provisions of Colorado Revised Statute 38-13-201, funds of 
patrons that remain in a dormant patron account shall be presumed 
abandoned. 
(b) 
The Sports Betting Operation shall report and deliver all funds of patrons 
that are presumed abandoned to the office of the Colorado Department of 
the Treasury as provided in Colorado Revised Statute 38-13-201. 
(c) 
At least sixty (60) days prior to reporting any funds of the patron to the 
Colorado Department of the Treasury, the Sports Betting Operation shall 
provide notice to the patron’s last known physical or email address and 
conduct due diligence to locate the patron.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
59 
7.12 Change Control. 
(1) 
Prior to beginning sports betting activity, a Sports Betting Operation must submit 
for approval a change control document detailing the operations change 
management process. Change control minimizes the risk of changes impacting 
the IT environment in a negative or unanticipated way. The focus of change 
control is change management, which is implemented to understand the addition, 
modification or removal of any component that will affect the IT environment. A 
licensee must ensure that their change management processes and procedures 
address at a minimum the following: 
(a) 
Introduction. 
The process is designed to provide visibility and control to the regulator 
while supporting agile development and frequent change cycle. Change 
management process is to have a clear and transparent framework to 
assist in managing deployments and other changes in the regulated live 
production environment. the Division will provide additional details as 
needed for completing or updating the change management document. 
(b) 
Process description. 
(i) 
Roles in change management process. 
(ii) 
Handling requests for change (RFC). 
(iii) 
Change classification procedure. 
(c) 
Categories of requests for change. 
(i) 
Substantial change process (requires lab testing, release note). 
Notification submission and approval is required when a core 
function of the sports betting system is affected. This includes the 
security, integrity, recovery and availability of the sports betting 
system. The licensee must submit a notification to the Division to 
determine if a certification is required by the independent testing lab 
prior to Division approval. 
(ii) 
Non-substantial change process (log no communication). 
All changes to the sports betting system must be put on a change 
log. The change log must include date, summary of change, 
requestor, implementer, and results. The log must be made 
available to the Division upon request. 
(iii) 
Notify & do change process.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
60 
Notification to the Division is required when a change in 
functionality of the sports betting system is being implemented. The 
notification must be sent to the Division prior to the implementation. 
The changes must be logged. The log must be made available to 
the Division upon request. 
(iv) 
Emergency change process. 
When an unanticipated incident occurs that causes a disruption in 
the collection, accuracy, integrity, or availability of the sports betting 
system, the licensee must notify the Division as soon a practically 
possible . The fix must be documented in the change log and the 
Division must be notified of the resolution within 48 business hours 
of resuming normal operations. 
(d) 
Keeping the change management log. 
(e) 
Writing Release Notes. 
(f) 
Implementation. 
This process must include notification to system users, a schedule as to 
when the change will be implemented, a project plan to implement, and 
back out recovery procedures. 
7.13 Exchange wagers. 
The rules in this section 7.13 are applicable only to exchange wagering. This section, in 
addition to all applicable sport betting rules, shall be applicable to all persons licensed 
and approved by the Commission in connection with exchange wagering, and every 
patron and account holder of the exchange wagering system. 
(1) 
The following words and terms, when used in this section 7.13, shall have the 
following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise: 
(a) 
“Commission Fee” means a fee relating to patrons’ wagering activity 
charged to patrons and collected by the Internet Sports Betting Operator 
or Sports Betting Operator. 
(b) 
“Market” means, in relation to the results of a sporting event, set of 
sporting events, or outcomes that occur during the playing of a sporting 
event approved on the Colorado Division of Gaming Official Sports Betting 
Catalog of Events and Wagers, or Official Catalog of Fixed Odds 
Wagering, as permitted under Rule 5.4, a particular outcome that is 
subject to exchange wagering as determined by the Internet Sports 
Betting Operator or Sports Betting Operator. 
(c) 
“Price” means the odds for a given exchange wager.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
61 
(2) 
The Internet Sports Betting Operator or Sports Betting Operator shall give each 
patron the option to have the liquidity at the best available price for Exchange 
Wagering on a market be clearly displayed to that patron within the sports betting 
system. 
(3) 
For the purposes of Exchange Wagering, when calculating Net Sports Betting 
Proceeds, ‘exchange bets’ shall equal total amount of all bets placed by players 
and ‘exchange bets paid’ shall equal all payments to players. Any Commission 
Fees collected by a Sports Betting Operation constitute net sports betting 
proceeds and are subject to all taxes and tax requirements outlined in Part 15 of 
the Colorado Limited Gaming Act. 
(4) 
Where a resettlement of an Exchange Wager occurs, the Internet Sports Betting 
Operator or Sports Betting Operator is responsible for paying the winning wager 
regardless of the Internet Sports Betting Operator or Sports Betting Operator’s 
ability to recover funds for the losing wager. 
(5) 
If an error occurs in the payment of amounts of exchange wagers, regardless of 
cause, the Internet Sports Betting Operator or Sports Betting Operator offering 
Exchange Wagering shall be responsible for such overpayment or 
underpayment. 
(6) 
Market Maker 
(a) 
A Market Maker must possess a Vendor Major License prior to an Internet 
Sports Betting Operator or Sports Betting Operator posting wagers on 
behalf of the Market Maker. 
(b) 
Any revenue derived from a Market Maker facilitating the placing of, 
buying of, or selling of wagers through providing odds or liquidity to an 
Internet Sports Betting Operator or Sports Betting Operator that is 
operating an Exchange must be collected by the Internet Sports Betting 
Operator or Sports Betting Operator, and constitutes net sports betting 
proceeds. Any revenue sharing payments to a Market Maker by the 
Internet Sports Betting Operator or Sports Betting Operator do not 
constitute payments to players and do not factor into the calculation of net 
sports betting proceeds. 
(c) 
A Sports Betting Operator and Internet Sports Betting Operator must 
clearly disclose the presence of wagers for sale or for purchase by, or 
posted on behalf of, a Market Maker through the exchange in a manner 
approved by the Director or the Director’s Designee. 
(7) 
The Internet Sports Betting Operator or Sports Betting Operator offering 
Exchange Wagering may cancel an unmatched wager at any time, without 
cause, before it is matched to form a back or lay wager.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
62 
(8) 
A patron who offers an unmatched wager may cancel that unmatched wager at 
any time, without cause, before it is matched by the Internet Sports Betting 
Operator or Sports Betting Operator to form one or more sets of opposing 
wagers that are identical in value. However, the suspected abuse of this 
cancellation privilege by a patron, including, but not limited to, where any such 
cancellation is made pursuant to or in furtherance of fraudulent activity or where 
the frequency of such cancellations is determined by the Internet Sports Betting 
Operator or Sports Betting Operator to negatively impact the Exchange or any 
given market, may serve as a basis for the closure or suspension of the 
exchange wagering account. 
(9) 
Nothing contained in this section shall be interpreted to preclude the Director 
from ordering that an approved market, or previously approved market, be 
discontinued because the sporting event has been removed from the Colorado 
Division of Gaming Official Sports Betting Catalog of Events and Wagers, or 
Official Catalog of Fixed Odds Wagering, as permitted under Rule 5.4; there are 
issues with the integrity of a market; or, where the continuance thereof would be 
inconsistent with the exchange wagering system, including its wagering and 
technological reliability aspects. 
(10) 
In the event of a technological breakdown associated with the exchange 
wagering system, which renders the exchange wagering system non-functional, 
and where the Internet Sports Betting Operator or Sports Betting Operator 
determines that the nature and degree of the technological breakdown does not 
require a suspension or voiding of the market, the Internet Sports Betting 
Operator or Sports Betting Operator shall: 
(a) 
Cause all back and lay wagers, as of the time of the failure, to remain, and 
to be paid in accordance with the established price for such wagers and 
the calculation of ‘exchange bets’ and ‘exchange bets paid’ definitions and 
the internal control procedures of the Internet Sports Betting Operator or 
Sports Betting Operator applicable to back and lay wagers; and, 
(b) 
Cause all unmatched wagers to be canceled. 
(c) 
In the event the Internet Sports Betting Operator or Sports Betting 
Operator acts pursuant to this subsection 7.13(10), it shall promptly file 
with the Division a written report detailing the action taken and the reasons 
in support of such action.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
63 
(11) 
The Internet Sports Betting Operator or Sports Betting Operator may suspend a 
market on its own accord and at any time, for good cause. For the purposes of 
this section, good cause shall exist where: the Internet Sports Betting Operator or 
Sports Betting Operator has reasonable cause to suspect that fraud or any other 
action or inaction by any natural person connected with the sporting event raises 
questions about the integrity and fairness of the market; the Internet Sports 
Betting Operator or Sports Betting Operator has reasonable cause to conclude 
that a material technological breakdown associated with the exchange wagering 
system exists or has arisen, which technological breakdown is of such magnitude 
that the implementation of the exchange wagering system's breakdown 
procedure as set forth in 7.13(10) would be inadequate. The Internet Sports 
Betting Operator or Sports Betting Operator may also suspend a market for other 
reasons where the operator immediately contacts the Director and can 
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Director that a failure to suspend a market 
will likely negatively impact the integrity of the exchange wagering system. 
(12) 
In the event the Internet Sports Betting Operator or Sports Betting Operator 
suspends a market pursuant to 7.13(11) above, it shall immediately notify the 
Director of such action in writing, by electronic mail. In addition, the Internet 
Sports Betting Operator or Sports Betting Operator shall promptly file a written 
report to the Director which, at a minimum, identifies: 
(a) 
The market suspended; 
(b) 
The date and time of the suspension; 
(c) 
The reason for the market suspension, the reasons why the 
implementation of the procedure set forth in 7.13(10  ) would have been 
insufficient; 
(d) 
The results of the related due diligence investigation conducted by the 
Internet Sports Betting Operator or Sports Betting Operator; and 
(e) 
A proposal for settling the market. 
(f) 
Upon satisfactory review and written authorization from the Director, the 
Internet Sports Betting Operator or Sports Betting Operator shall settle the 
market.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
64 
(13) 
An entire market may only be voided upon application to the Director where the 
Internet Sports Betting Operator or Sports Betting Operator demonstrates to the 
satisfaction of the Director that a material and irreparable technological 
breakdown of the exchange wagering system occurred and that, due to the 
nature thereof and circumstances present, it would prove insufficient for the 
Internet Sports Betting Operator or Sports Betting Operator to implement the 
procedures set forth in either 7.13(10) or (11) above. In approving any such 
application, the Director may impose reasonable and necessary conditions to 
ensure the integrity of the exchange wagering system. 
(14) 
Except as provided in 7.13(15) below, once an unmatched wager is confirmed by 
the Internet Sports Betting Operator or Sports Betting Operator as having been 
matched to form a back or a lay wager in a given market on the exchange, such 
matched wager shall be final and shall not be canceled. 
(15) 
The Internet Sports Betting Operator or Sports Betting Operator shall only cancel 
a matched wager, or part of a matched wager, if such cancellation is ordered by 
the Director or, where in its sole discretion, the Internet Sports Betting Operator 
or Sports Betting Operator determines that: 
(a) 
There is a technological failure of the exchange wagering system and the 
entire market, within which the exchange wager was made, must as a 
result be voided in accordance with 7.13 (11); 
(b) 
There is good cause to suspect that a person placing a wager through the 
exchange wagering system has acted in violation of the terms and 
conditions entered into with the Internet Sports Betting Operator or Sports 
Betting Operator at the time such person's exchange wagering account 
was established, or at the time the terms thereof were amended; 
(c) 
It is in the interest of maintaining the integrity and fairness in a particular 
market; or, 
(d) 
Human error, by the Internet Sports Betting Operator or Sports Betting 
Operator, occurred in the recording of the exchange wager. 
(e) 
In the event the Internet Sports Betting Operator or Sports Betting 
Operator cancels a back or a lay wager as authorized by this section, the 
Internet Sports Betting Operator or Sports Betting Operator shall promptly 
submit a written report detailing the action taken and the reasons in 
support of such action to the Division.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
65 
BASIS AND PURPOSE FOR RULE 8 
The purpose of Rule 8 is to specify the requirements of sports betting integrity; 
confidential information; specify certain duties of licensees related to sports betting 
information, sports betting integrity, and nature of the confidentiality of betting 
information. “Confidential information” as referred to in this section is not governed by 
the provisions of 44-30-526, C.R.S., unless otherwise deemed applicable by the 
Division and/or Commission. The statutory basis for Rule 8 is found in sections 44-30-
201, C.R.S., 44-30-202, C.R.S., 44-30-203, C.R.S., 44-30-302, C.R.S., 44-30-510, 
C.R.S., 44-30-528, C.R.S., 44-30-833, C.R.S., and part 15 of article 30 of title 44, 
C.R.S. 
RULE 8  
SPORTS BETTING INTEGRITY; CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION 
Effective 4/14/20 
8.1 
Sports betting integrity. 
(1) 
All licensed Sports Betting Operations in the State of Colorado shall provide 
betting information as required by applicable Rules and Regulations to the 
Division. To facilitate the collection of aggregate data in a format that can be 
efficiently utilized by the Division, licensees will submit required betting 
information to the Division. The information shall be reported to the Division via 
its approved data gateway and in the required data format. Director approved 
data gateway and data format will be communicated via Division Bulletin. 
(2) 
A Sports Betting Operation shall have internal controls in place to identify 
unusual betting activity and report such activity to the Division and an 
Independent Integrity Monitoring Association as directed by the Division Director. 
(3) 
All Independent Integrity Monitoring Providers shall share information with each 
member and shall disseminate all reports of unusual activity to all member Sports 
Betting Operations. All Sports Betting Operations shall review such reports and 
notify the Independent Integrity Monitoring Provider whether they have 
experienced similar activity. 
(4) 
If an Independent Integrity Monitoring Provider finds that previously reported 
unusual betting activity rises to the level of suspicious betting activity, it shall 
immediately notify all other Independent Integrity Monitoring Providers, their 
member Sports Betting Operations, the Division, and all other regulatory 
agencies as directed by the Division. All Independent Integrity Monitoring 
Providers receiving a report under this section shall share such report with their 
member Sports Betting Operations. 
(5) 
A Sports Betting Operation receiving a report of suspicious betting activity shall 
be permitted to suspend betting and related wagers on events related to the 
report, but may only cancel related wagers after receiving approval from the 
Director or the Director’s designee.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
66 
(6) 
If the Division receives a suspicious betting activity report from an Independent 
Integrity Monitoring Provider, the Division shall notify the relevant sports 
governing body as expeditiously as possible. 
(7) 
The Division may require a Sports Betting Operation to provide hardware 
necessary to the Division for evaluation of its sports betting offering or to conduct 
further monitoring of data provided by its system. 
(8) 
As authorized by section 44-30-1506(7), C.R.S., each Sports Betting Operation 
may set such bet limits as it, in its sole discretion, finds appropriate, including 
limits as to a form or class of sports betting, a specific sports event, or a person 
placing a bet. 
8.2 
Confidential information. 
(1) 
All information and data received pursuant to this Rule by the Commission 
related to unusual or suspicious betting activity or wagering data shall be 
considered confidential and shall not be revealed in whole or in part, except as 
required by law, by the Commission, or by lawful order of a court of competent 
jurisdiction, or to any law enforcement entity, member club, sports governing 
body, Independent Integrity Monitor Provider, or regulatory agency that the 
Commission deems appropriate to protect the integrity of sport betting. 
(2) 
All information, including personally identifiable information of patrons, disclosed 
between Sports Betting Operations and member clubs, sports governing bodies, 
or Independent Integrity Monitor Providers pursuant to this rule, shall be kept 
private and confidential by all of the above persons and entities, except as 
required by law, by the Commission, or pursuant to the lawful order of a court of 
competent jurisdiction. With respect to any information provided by Sports 
Betting Operations to member clubs, sports governing bodies or, Independent 
Integrity Monitor Providers, such person or entity: 
(a) 
May only use such information for integrity purposes; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
67 
(b) 
Shall maintain the confidentiality of such information, unless disclosure is 
required by law, the Commission, court order, or unless the Sports Betting 
Operation consents to disclosure, provided that such person or entity may 
make disclosures necessary to conduct and resolve integrity-related 
investigations and may publicly disclose such information if required by 
such person’s or entity’s integrity policies or if deemed by the such person 
or entity in its reasonable judgment to be necessary to maintain the actual 
or perceived integrity of its sporting events, and subject in all cases to 
such person’s or entity’s compliance with federal, state and local laws and 
regulations, including without limitation, laws and regulations relating to 
privacy and personally identifiable information. Prior to any such public 
disclosure that would identify the Sports Betting Operation by name, such 
person or entity will provide such Sports Betting Operation with notice of 
such disclosure and an opportunity to object to such disclosure. 
(3) 
No information disclosed between Sports Betting Operations and member clubs, 
sports governing bodies or, Independent Integrity Monitor Providers shall be 
used by any party for marketing, advertising, or other commercial purposes. 
(4) 
Where necessary and/or required, redaction of confidential or personally 
identifiable information shall occur prior to release of information pursuant to this 
rule. 
8.3 
Licensing Independent Integrity Monitoring Providers. 
Any Independent Integrity Monitoring Provider operating in Colorado must obtain a 
Vendor Minor license. 
BASIS AND PURPOSE FOR RULE 9 
The purpose of Rule 9 is to specify the requirements of Sports Betting Operations and 
responsible gaming, patron responsible gaming, and to specify certain duties of 
licensees and patrons related to self-restriction. The statutory basis for Rule 9 is found 
in sections 44-30-201, C.R.S., 44-30-202, C.R.S., 44- 30-203, C.R.S., 44-30-302, 
C.R.S., 44-30-502, C.R.S., 44-30-510, C.R.S., 44-30-528, C.R.S., 44-30-531, C.R.S., 
44-30-827, C.R.S., 44-30-833, C.R.S., 18-20-112, C.R.S., 44-30-1701, C.R.S., 44-30-
1702, C.R.S., 44-30-1703, C.R.S., and part 15 of article 30 of title 44, C.R.S. (Amended 
temp. 10/27/22, Amended perm. 2/14/23)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
68 
RULE 9  
RESPONSIBLE GAMING AND SELF-RESTRICTION Effective 4/14/20 
9.1 
Display of responsible gaming logo. 
(1) 
Each sports betting website, mobile application, and self-service gaming device 
(kiosk) shall display a responsible gaming logo in a manner approved by the 
Director or Director’s designee to direct a patron to the Sports Betting Operator’s 
responsible gaming webpage or the Divisions responsible gaming webpage. 
Master, Sports Betting Operator, and Internet Sports Betting Operator licensees 
shall operate under the same responsible gaming guidelines as detailed in these 
Rules, where applicable. The responsible gaming webpage shall be accessible to 
a patron during a sports betting patron session and shall contain, at a minimum, 
the following: 
(a) 
A prominent message that states, “Gambling problem? Call or TEXT 1-
800-GAMBLER”; 
(b) 
A direct link to the website and other internet resources dedicated to 
helping people with potential gambling problems as directed by the 
Commission; and, 
(c) 
A clear statement of the Sports Betting Operation’s policy and 
commitment to responsible gaming along with a link to the Sports Betting 
Operation specific self-exclusion program along with information on self-
exclusion through the Division or Division’s website. 
(2) 
Sports Betting Operators must have a policy in effect for all of its properties in 
addition to self-exclusion, providing opportunities for patrons to request in writing 
the revocation of their privileges for specific services such as: 
(a) 
Direct sports betting promotions; 
(b) 
Player club/card privileges related to sports betting; 
(c) 
On-site check-cashing; and, 
(d) 
Complimentaries. 
(3) 
Sports Betting Operators must make information available promoting responsible 
gaming and where to find assistance, including a toll-free help line number. This 
information shall be available and visible in sports betting areas, affixed to all 
sports betting kiosks, and at cash access devices. 
9.2 
Sports Betting Operations self-exclusion. 
Each Sports Betting Operation shall establish and maintain a self-exclusion program for 
patrons consistent with Regulation 9.5.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
69 
9.3 
Direct marketing to individuals on the Exclusion List. 
(1) 
A Sports Betting Operation shall make all reasonable efforts to ensure that 
individuals on the Exclusion List do not receive direct marketing from the Sports 
Betting Operation or marketing affiliates. 
(2) 
A Sports Betting Operation will satisfy this requirement if the Sports Betting 
Operation and/or marketing affiliates remove the name and resident address 
from the list of individuals on the Exclusion List patrons to whom direct marketing 
materials are sent. 
(3) 
A Sports Betting Operation directly or through their marketing affiliates shall use 
the current Exclusion List provided by the Division, to prevent individuals being 
directly advertised to. The Exclusion List shall be used to update all direct 
marketing lists to ensure that individuals on the Exclusion List are not directly 
targeted, by direct mail, phone calls, text messages, emails, or any other form of 
direct communication. 
9.4 
Responsible advertising and promotions. 
(1) 
All offers and bonuses must: 
(a) 
Include terms and conditions that are full, accurate, clear, concise, 
transparent, and do not contain misleading information; 
(b) 
Have advertising materials that include any material terms and conditions 
for that offer or bonus and have those material terms in close proximity to 
the headline claim of the offer or bonus and in reasonably prominent size; 
(c) 
Not be described as free unless they absolutely are free. If the customer 
has to risk or lose their own money or has conditions attached to their own 
money, then the offer or bonus must disclose those terms; 
(d) 
Not be described as risk free if the customer needs to incur any loss or 
risk their own money to use or withdraw winnings from the risk free bet; 
(e) 
Not restrict the customer from withdrawing their own funds or withdrawing 
winnings from bets placed using their own funds; 
(2) 
No person may, while on the Exclusion List, redeem points, bonuses, comps or 
free play. 
(3) 
Prohibition on advertising that targets underage participants: 
(a) 
A Sports Betting Operation and/or their marketing affiliates shall not target 
underage persons or create advertising content that is clearly meant, 
because of message and graphics, for an underage audience.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
70 
(b) 
A Sports Betting Operation and/or their marketing affiliates shall not 
advertise on media where the majority of the demographic audience or 
players/performers are known to be under the legal age to engage in 
sports betting. This does not apply to public venues where the 
demographics of a normal crowd in attendance cannot be determined. 
(4) 
Sports Betting Operations on or before October 1st each year shall submit to the 
Director a report that describes the efforts of the licensee in the preceding state 
fiscal year (July 1st through June 30th) to promote responsible gaming in the state 
via advertising and other promotional methods and the licensee's plans 
concerning such promotional efforts in the current state fiscal year. (Effective 
temp. 10/27/22, perm. 2/14/23) 
(5) 
A Sports Betting Operation directly or through their marketing affiliates shall 
include a prominent message, which states, “Gambling problem? Call or TEXT 1-
800- GAMBLER” on all forms of media advertisement to Colorado consumers, 
including but not limited to: electronic mail (email), video advertisements, 
digital/online advertising, television advertisements, radio advertisement, letters, 
pamphlets and newspaper/magazine advertisements.  The written message of 
“Gambling problem? Call or TEXT 1-800- GAMBLER” shall appear in 
conspicuous and legible type in contrast by typography, layout, or color with all 
other printed material on the advertisement.  Verbal messaging of “Gambling 
problem? Call or TEXT 1-800- GAMBLER” shall be audible and understandable. 
Advertisements that only reference restaurants and/or the hotel at a sports 
betting licensee’s retail location(s) and do not market gaming and/or sports 
betting, including gaming and/or sports betting spaces, are exempt from this 
provision. The words “or text” may be excluded upon the Director’s prior 
approval. Any gaming-related communication that will entice a Colorado 
consumer to gamble and any gaming-related materials shall have the prominent 
message of “Gambling Problem? Call or text 1-800-GAMBLER.” Amended 
3/16/24 
(a) 
Entice means to attract, invite, and/or promote for purposes of the 
provision.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
71 
9.5 
Exclusion list – Duties and responsibilities. 
(1) 
Division Exclusion List. 
The Division shall operate a program to consolidate excluded and, self-excluded 
individuals in one Exclusion List in order to keep those individuals from 
participating in Colorado gaming. The program shall provide an Exclusion List for 
retail gaming licensees, Sports Betting Operations, as well as any licensed third-
party vendors pre-approved by the Director or the Director’s designee which 
contract with a licensee. The sole purpose of the Exclusion List is to ensure 
timely updates of individuals that may not participate in gaming and sports 
betting in Colorado. The Exclusion List shall only be used for the purpose of 
identifying those individuals who have been excluded from gaming and those that 
may have excluded themselves. Licensees including. Sports Betting Operations 
that receive data from the Division shall use it solely to update their database 
whether directly or through a Division-approved third-party vendor. The 
information contained in the Exclusion List updates provided to the licensees are 
confidential and shall only be used for its intended purpose. Limited information 
may be shared with affiliates and Division-approved third-party vendors for the 
purpose of ensuring individuals on the Exclusion List do not receive direct 
marketing. It is a violation for any licensee to use the confidential data in any 
other way. The Director shall determine how each licensee, league or person 
interacts with the database. 
(a) 
Internet Sports Betting Operators shall, make available a self-exclusion 
application to a patron requesting to self-exclude. This self-exclusion 
application must include an easily identifiable link to the Division’s Self 
Exclusion website and the link must take the player directly to the 
webpage from the application. 
(b) 
The Sports Betting Operators shall provide either a hard copy of the 
Division’s self-exclusion application, provide a dedicated computer in the 
sportsbook where a patron can access the Division’s self-exclusion 
website, or direct the patron to the Division’s self-exclusion website. 
(c) 
The Division shall provide a list of excluded Players (the Exclusion List) to 
the Sports Betting Operations. The Exclusion List will be in a format 
determined by the Director or the Director’s designee, updated as needed, 
and sent electronically.  All new and existing licensees shall update all 
new excluded persons withing their own database or through a Division 
approved third-party vendor within three business days,Monday thru 
Friday, excluding holidays, from receiving an updated Exclusion List from 
the Division. Licensees must review the Exclusion List prior to issuing a 
new account.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
72 
(d) 
A licensed third-party vendor may view and use the confidential 
information contained in the Division’s Exclusion List, so long as the third-
party vendor has complied with the following: 
(i) 
The third-party vendor has entered into a contract or written 
agreement with a licensee outlining the third-party vendor’s access 
and use of the confidential information contained in the Division’s 
Exclusion List. 
(ii) 
The third-party vendor has completed and submitted a form 
prepared by the Director or the Director’s designee. As part of the 
form, the third-party vendor must disclose all retail gaming 
licensees and Sports Betting Operations that it is providing services 
to related to the Division’s Exclusion List. As part of the form, the 
third-party vendor must affirmatively agree not to disclose the 
confidential information contained in the Division’s Exclusion List 
and to only use such confidential information for its intended 
purpose. 
(iii) 
The third-party vendor may not access and/or use the confidential 
information contained in the Division’s Exclusion List until approved 
in writing by the Director or the Director’s designee. 
(iv) 
The third-party vendor must immediately inform the Division of any 
changes to its address, any changes to its contract or written 
agreement with a Sports Betting Operation, or its cessation of 
services relating to the provision of this regulation within five (5) 
calendar days of the changes or cessation of services. 
(v) 
The third-party vendor must immediately disclose to the Division 
within five (5) calendar days any disclosure of the confidential 
information contained in the Division’s Exclusion List or 
inappropriate use of such confidential information.  
(e) 
In the event the third party vendor violates any or all of the requirements in 
Rule 9.5(d), The license with which the third-party vendor has contracted 
and/or entered into a written agreement may be subject to discipline in 
accordance with the provisions of Article 30 of Title 44, C.R.S., and/or the 
Gaming and Sports Betting rules and regulations under 1 C.C.R. 207-1 
and 1 C.C.R. 207-2 respectively. 
(2) 
Exclusion List. 
(a) 
The following persons shall be included and maintained in the Exclusion 
List, updated and transferred to Sports Betting Operations, retail gaming 
licensees, and licensed third-party vendors approved by the Director or 
the Director’s designee which contract with a licensee or a Sports Betting 
Operation:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
73 
(i) 
Individuals that have voluntarily self-excluded from any operator, 
retail casino or through the Division. 
(ii) 
Individuals who are required by the Commission to be excluded or 
ejected from licensed gaming establishments, to the extent that 
those individuals are listed in the Divisions Exclusion List. 
(b) 
Individuals on the Exclusion List may not participate or collect winnings 
from gaming in Colorado. For purposes of this provision, “winnings” only 
applies to bets made after the individual was added to the Exclusion List. 
Individuals on the Exclusion List, shall not be able to redeem points, 
bonuses, comps or free play. The Sports Betting Operation will retain or 
keep any winnings of a person on the Exclusion. Individuals on the 
Exclusion List forfeit any money wagered, but may retain any remaining 
funds that have not been actively wagered sports wagering after being 
placed on the Exclusion List. 
(i) 
Retail Licensees, Internet Sports Betting Operators, and/or Sports 
Betting Operators must check whether a patron is on the exclusion 
list during the following transactions: comp issuance, reward item 
issuance, sports betting transactions requiring ID, PIN change, 
jackpot pay out, issuing/reissuing a players card, front money, or 
opening a players account. 
(ii) 
Retail Licensees, Internet Sports Betting Operators, and/or Sports 
Betting Operators must respond to any alerts their system might 
provide, including but not limited to audible and visual alerts that 
indicate a patron is on the self-exclusion list. Example of alerts may 
include but are not limited to alerts from the player management 
systems, technology, or any other methods assigned by the 
Director. Systems that have the capability to provide the alert are 
required to utilize it, both audible and visual versions, if available. 
(A) 
A response includes: 
(1) 
Individuals on the exclusion list who continue to enter 
retail sports betting establishments and participate in 
sports betting will be escorted out of the retail sports 
betting establishment and may be subject to 
prosecution.  Sports Betting Operators are required to 
report each incident to the Division.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
74 
(iii) 
Internet Sports Betting Operators must review all patron accounts 
to determine whether any patrons are on the Exclusion List upon 
receiving the lists from the Division. In the event an individual on 
the Exclusion List has an account with the Internet Sports Betting 
Operator, the Internet Sports Betting Operator may not accept any 
sports wagers from the patron during the duration of the patron’s 
inclusion on the Exclusion List.    
(c) 
A Sports Betting Operation that allows individuals on the Exclusion List to 
gamble may be subject to disciplinary action in accordance with the 
provisions of Article 30, of Title 44, C.R.S., and/or the Gaming and Sports 
Betting Rules and Regulations under 1 C.C.R. 207-1 and 1 C.C.R. 207-2. 
(3) 
Self-Inclusion on the Exclusion List. 
(a) 
Individual self-exclusion means that an individual has made a conscious 
voluntary effort to exclude themselves from all forms of gaming, including 
limited gaming and sports betting under the regulatory purview of the 
Commission and the Division. Self-exclusion may only be accomplished 
by an individual acting in their own interest, in the following ways: 
(i) 
Self-exclusion by an individual through the Division. An individual 
self-excluding either in person or through a web-based application. 
All self-exclusions by individuals through the Division, either in 
person or web-based, will have their identity verified prior to being 
included on the Exclusion List. 
(ii) 
Self-exclusion through an Internet Sports Betting Operator. An 
Internet Sport Betting Operator shall direct any individual who 
chooses an option to electronically self-exclude on the Internet 
Sports Betting mobile app to the Division’s self-exclusion website. 
(iii) 
Self-exclusion through a Sports Betting Operator. A Sports Betting 
Operator shall direct any individual who requests self-exclusion 
through the Sports Betting Operator to the Division’s website 
directly for self-exclusion. In the alternative, a Sports Betting 
Operator may direct any individual requesting self-exclusion 
through the Sports Betting Operator to complete a self-exclusion 
form provided by the Sports Betting Operator. 
(b) 
Individuals wishing to self-exclude in person or through the Division’s web-
based application shall fill out all required information on the form. 
Incomplete forms may not be processed.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
75 
(c) 
Individuals that self-exclude from Sports Betting Operations in other states 
may be included on their corporate exclusion list and may be included in 
other state exclusion programs. An individual self-excluding in Colorado 
shall be informed prior to being placed on a corporate exclusion list. 
(4) 
Self-exclusion period. 
(a) 
Individuals who voluntarily self-excluded shall select the period of 
exclusion to include: 
(i) 
One (1) year 
(ii) 
Three (3) years; or 
(iii) 
Five (5) years 
(b) 
An individual who is on the Exclusion List may submit a request to the 
Division, to increase the minimum length of exclusion. 
(5) 
Removal from the Exclusion List after self-exclusion. 
(a) 
No person is automatically removed from the Exclusion List when the 
selected or directed period ends. Individuals that have self-excluded and 
are on the Exclusion excluded List must file the Request for Removal from 
the Exclusion List form with the Division prior to being removed from the 
Exclusion List. 
(b) 
Individuals that are on the Exclusion List and have not completed their 
self-selected period of self-exclusion may petition the Director for removal 
from the list. The Director or the Director’s designee Division may require 
self-evaluation or evaluation by a professional to ensure the problem 
gambling or financial issues that led to the self-exclusion have corrected 
themselves. Removal from the Exclusion List prior to the self-selected 
time period is at the complete discretion of the Director. If an individual’s 
petition to be removed from the Exclusion List prior to the self-selected 
exclusion period is not approved by the Director, the individual may not re-
petition the Director again for the period of one year from the date of the 
Director’s decision, regardless of any subsequent petition(s) or 
proceeding(s) under Rule 2.8. 
9.6 
Establishment of responsible gaming best practices. 
(1) 
Prior to beginning sports betting activity, a Sports Betting Operation shall submit 
for approval to the Division its strategy for the implementation of a responsible 
gaming program. On or before October 1st each year, each Sports Betting 
Operation shall submit to the Division any updates to its strategy for the 
implementation of a responsible gaming program.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
76 
(2) 
The strategy for the implementation of a responsible gaming program shall 
include but is not limited to the following: 
(a) 
The options available for patrons to set self-directed limits on all aspects 
of their deposits, withdrawals, limits on betting and time frames those 
limits take place. 
(b) 
All responsible gaming tools that are at the player’s disposal. 
(c) 
The staffing level, including the lead staff position for the responsible 
gaming program, staffing positions dedicated to responsible gaming, 
employee education and outreach to players identified as problem 
gamblers or players that are at risk or show signs of problems gaming. 
(i) 
The lead staff position or their designee shall be required to provide 
responsible gaming training for team members who directly engage 
with sports betting patrons continually and/or as needed with the 
turnover of team members.  
(d) 
A detail of the use of player data and technology to aid in identifying 
potential problem gamblers. Detail should be provided on how the 
operators or a contracted third party’s technology will provide automated 
triggers on potential problem gamblers. The List should provide detail on 
what triggers are being identified and how the operator has identified 
those as critical matrices to follow. Additionally, what plans the operator is 
engaged in to continually update and learn the best way to identify 
problem gamblers on their site. 
(e) 
The levels of intervention and education provided to identified at risk 
players. Provide examples of materials and/or media used for intervention 
and education. 
(f) 
Internal controls to identify any individuals on the Exclusion List who 
engage in sports betting activity through the Sports Betting Operation. 
Internal controls should include prohibiting individuals on the Exclusion 
List from engaging in sports betting through the Sports Betting Operation 
and controls in place to prevent collection of winnings by individuals on the 
Exclusion List and, 
(g) 
Any information relevant to the company as a whole on strategic direction 
for responsible gaming. 
(3) 
The Sports Betting Operation shall ensure compliance with its internal 
responsible gaming policies and procedures, and the strategy for implementation 
of a responsible gaming program submitted to the Division. An Operations failure 
to adhere to its own responsible gaming policies and procedures and its plan 
provided to the Division may subject the operation to regulatory discipline.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
77 
(4) 
The Sports Betting Operation shall audit the entirety of the player account 
management system or any system or database that houses excluded patron 
information twice each year (first between June 1st and July 1st and second 
between December 1st and January 1st each calendar year) for duplicate 
accounts to ensure that individuals on the exclusion list are flagged appropriately. 
A Sports Betting Operation may submit a request to the Division for approval of 
an alternative audit schedule, which is subject to approval by the Director or 
Director’s designee. 
(a) 
The Sports Betting Operator or Internet Sports Betting Operator shall 
ensure the player account management system or any system or 
database that houses excluded patron information is accessed during any 
patron gaming interaction that requires identification.  
(i) 
Examples include: cash advances, check cashing, PIN number 
changes, taxable accumulated credits or free play, front money, 
cash club transactions, audible and visual alerts, and any gaming 
transaction requiring an ID. 
BASIS AND PURPOSE FOR RULE 10 
The purpose of Rule 10 is to establish procedures and articulate grounds for disciplinary 
actions and informal resolution of allegations of violations of the provisions of article 30 
of title 44 C.R.S., or any Rules and Regulations promulgated pursuant to such article, to 
provide procedures to impose sanctions for violations, and to provide for certain 
conditions to be met for reissuance of licenses to persons who formerly held a license. 
The statutory basis for Rule 10 is found in sections 44-30-201, C.R.S., 44-30-202, 
C.R.S., 44-30-203, C.R.S., 44-30-302, C.R.S., 44-30-504, C.R.S., 44-30-523, C.R.S., 
44-30-524, C.R.S., 24-4-104, C.R.S. and part 15 of article 30 of title 44, C.R.S. 
RULE 10 
GROUNDS AND PROCEDURES FOR DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS 
10.1 Grounds for disciplinary action. 
The Commission may levy a monetary penalty or may suspend or revoke, any license 
issued by it or the Director for any violations by the person holding the license, or such 
licensee's employees or agents, of any of the provisions of article 30 of title 44, C.R.S., 
or any of the Rules and Regulations promulgated thereunder. Acceptance of a state 
sports betting license or renewal thereof by a licensee constitutes an agreement on the 
part of the licensee to be bound by all the Regulations of the Commission as the same 
now are or may hereafter be amended or promulgated. It is the responsibility of the 
licensee to keep the licensee self-informed of the content of all such Regulations, and 
ignorance thereof will not excuse violations.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
78 
10.2 Initiation of disciplinary proceedings. 
(1) 
Upon its own motion, upon motion of the Director, or upon written complaint 
signed and sworn to by the complainant, the Commission may determine to 
initiate disciplinary proceedings against any person licensed pursuant to article 
30 of title 44, C.R.S. Disciplinary proceedings, as used herein, shall mean those 
procedures undertaken by the Commission to suspend or revoke any license 
issued by it or the Director, to levy a monetary penalty against any licensee, or to 
otherwise sanction violations of sports betting laws and Rules. 
(2) 
The Commission may initiate disciplinary proceedings against a license where it 
determines that there is probable cause to believe: that the licensee, the 
licensee's employees, or agents have violated any of the provisions of article 30 
of title 44, C.R.S., or the Rules and Regulations thereunder; that the licensee or 
persons associated with the licensee are of unsatisfactory moral character; or 
that violations by the licensee, the licensee's employees, or agents, of laws other 
than the sports betting laws make the licensee no longer suitable for licensing by 
the Commission or Director. 
(3) 
Disciplinary proceedings shall be initiated by the Commission, or the Director, 
sending to the licensee by first class mail at the last known mailing address of the 
licensee, a list of the grounds for the proposed disciplinary action and a notice 
containing at least the time and place for any hearing before the Commission 
concerning the proposed disciplinary action. Said list and notice shall be mailed 
to the licensee at least 30 days prior to the hearing. 
10.3 Citizen complaints authorized — procedure following filing. 
Any person claiming that a licensee has engaged or is engaging in conduct constituting 
grounds for disciplinary action may file with the Director a sworn written complaint 
stating the name and address of the licensee complained against. The complaint must 
fully detail the conduct, alleged to violate a specified sports betting statute or regulation 
or other legal requirement, upon which the complaint is made. If the Director determines 
the complaint has merit, the Director must immediately serve by first class mail on the 
licensee complained against and any other affected parties a copy of the complaint. The 
licensee complained against has 20 days to answer after service of the complaint on the 
licensee, which answer shall be filed with the Director, on behalf of the Division and the 
Commission. The Director may reject a complaint if it does not meet the requirements of 
this section. If the licensee answers the complaint, the licensee must serve an original 
and one (1) copy.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
79 
10.4 Dismissal of citizen complaint. 
After receipt of the answer to the complaint, after the time has expired to answer, or 
after having determined that no answer is necessary, the Director must examine the 
complaint, any answer, and other supporting documents to determine whether the 
complaint has merit or is frivolous or whether it charges conduct constituting grounds for 
disciplinary action. If the Director determines that the complaint is without merit or is 
frivolous or that it does not charge conduct constituting grounds for disciplinary action, 
the Director must dismiss the complaint and notify in writing the complainant, the 
licensee complained against, and other affected parties, stating the reasons for 
dismissal. The Director may investigate the complaint and use extrinsic evidence to 
determine if the complaint has merit. 
10.5 Informal consultation. 
If the Director considers the citizen complaint, or any other allegations, to be grounds for 
disciplinary action, the Director may consult with the licensee and the parties affected in 
an effort to resolve the matter satisfactorily without a formal hearing. The Director must 
notify in writing the complainant, the licensee complained against, and affected parties 
of the results of the informal consultation. The informal consultation does not prevent 
the Commission from conducting a formal hearing. 
10.6 Assurance of voluntary compliance. 
The Director may accept an assurance of voluntary compliance regarding any act or 
practice alleged to violate article 30 of title 44, C.R.S., or the Rules and Regulations 
thereunder, from a person who has engaged in, is engaging in, or is about to engage in 
such acts or practices. The assurance must be in writing and may include a stipulation 
for the voluntary payment of the costs of the investigation and an amount necessary to 
restore to a person money or property which may have been acquired by the alleged 
violator because of the acts or practices. An assurance of voluntary compliance may not 
be considered an admission of a violation for any purpose; however, proof of failure to 
comply with the assurance of voluntary compliance is prima facie evidence of a violation 
of article 30 of title 44, C.R.S., or the Rules and Regulation thereunder. The 
Commission may approve or review an assurance of voluntary compliance. 
10.7 Decision to initiate disciplinary action. 
At any time during the review and investigation of a citizen complaint, the Director or the 
Commission may decide to initiate formal disciplinary proceedings where grounds exist 
to sustain their initiation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
80 
10.8 Criminal convictions as grounds for revocation or suspension. 
The Commission may revoke or suspend the sports betting license of any person who is 
convicted of a crime, even though the convicted person's post-conviction rights and 
remedies have not been exhausted, if the crime or conviction involves a felony, 
gambling, or sports betting or if it discredits or tends to discredit the State of Colorado, 
sports betting or gaming industry. 
10.9 Facts of criminal charge. 
The charge in any jurisdiction of a licensee with a felony or with a misdemeanor 
involving moral turpitude is grounds for disciplinary action. The Commission may find 
the licensee guilty of a violation of this article based on the facts of the criminal charge 
even though the licensee has been acquitted on the criminal charge. 
10.10 Per diem and mileage. 
The Commission may authorize per diem and mileage for complainants, witnesses, and 
affected parties at informal consultations and for complainants and witnesses at formal 
hearings. The per diem and the mileage may not exceed the amounts authorized by 
laws generally applicable to state disciplinary proceedings. 
10.11 Final action by Commission. 
After hearing the evidence and reaching a decision in connection with any disciplinary 
proceeding, the Commission may find the licensee not guilty of any of the grounds 
alleged for disciplinary action; in which event the disciplinary proceedings shall be 
terminated. The Commission may, however, find the licensee guilty by a preponderance 
of the evidence of some or all of the grounds alleged for disciplinary action; in which 
event the Commission may revoke the license, may suspend the license for a particular 
period of time, may impose a monetary penalty as provided in section 44-30-524 (1), 
C.R.S., may issue a public or private letter of reprimand to be placed in the file of the 
licensee, or may take any combination of these actions. This section does not prevent 
the Commission from compromising or settling at any time a formal hearing, and the 
Commission may also allow an assurance of voluntary compliance. Written findings of 
fact, conclusions of law, and an order must be entered before any decision of the 
Commission to suspend or revoke a license shall be considered final. The Commission 
may allow or require briefs of law before making any decision.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
81 
10.12 Summary Suspension. 
(1) 
Where the Commission has reasonable grounds to believe and finds that any 
person licensed under article 30 of title 44, C.R.S., has been guilty of a deliberate 
or willful violation of any of the provisions of article 30 of title 44, C.R.S., or the 
Rules and Regulations thereunder, or that the licensee has been charged with a 
felony in Colorado or in another state, or that due to other violations of law by the 
licensee or its patrons, the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires 
emergency action, and where the Commission incorporates such findings in its 
order, the Commission may summarily suspend the licensee's license pending 
disciplinary proceedings for suspension or revocation. Any such disciplinary 
proceedings shall be promptly instituted and determined. 
(2) 
The summary suspension of a license without notice pending a public hearing 
shall be for a period not to exceed thirty days except that a licensee may waive 
the thirty day hearing requirement by requesting a continuance in writing no later 
than five (5) business days prior to the scheduled hearing. In no event, however, 
shall the requested continuance be granted unless the licensee requesting the 
continuance has complied with the order of summary suspension by surrendering 
such licensee's license or license identification badge to a Division office. 
10.13 Notice. 
The Director or designee must have delivered a notice of summary suspension 
personally or by mail to the licensee who has been suspended. The notice must state 
when the suspension will begin and end and must state the reasons for the suspension. 
10.14 Disciplinary proceeding notice required. 
The Director must have served upon the summarily suspended licensee a formal notice 
initiating disciplinary proceedings and a notice of hearing within five (5) days after 
receipt by the licensee of the notice of summary suspension. The notice initiating 
disciplinary proceedings and the notice of hearing may be issued by the Director without 
prior Commission approval. The Commission shall hear the matter on an expedited 
basis, but in no event later than 30 days after the imposition of the summary suspension 
unless such licensee has requested a later date pursuant to regulation 10.12 (2). 
10.15 Conditions imposed by Commission for reissuance of license. 
The Commission or Director may require a person who formerly held a license to meet 
certain conditions before reissuing a license to that person, including but not limited to 
the following: 
(1) 
Restitution of money; 
(2) 
Restitution of property; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
82 
(3) 
Making periodic reports to the Commission or Director as required. 
10.16 Costs. 
(1) 
In addition to the sanction, denial, or granting or issuance by the Commission of 
any license or other affirmative approval, the Commission may direct the 
payment by the applicant of any reasonable costs incurred by the Commission, 
by the Division, or by any applicant, party, or witness regarding the application. 
(a) 
The Commission may enter any such order of its own initiative, or upon 
timely application and showing by the Division or any other party or 
witness in the action prior to the expiration of any time for appealing the 
underlying order. 
(b) 
The filing of such an application does not stay the effectiveness of the 
underlying order. 
(2) 
Reimbursable costs shall include, but are not limited to: witness fees and per 
diem; expert witness fees; duplication costs; court reporter, transcription, and 
other costs incurred in administering or preserving any record; extraordinary 
staffing costs of the Division; legal fees; Commissioner per diem pursuant to § 
44-30-301(1)(f), C.R.S.; expenses incurred in commencing, accommodating, or 
conducting the hearing; investigative costs; exhibit costs; and any other judicially 
or statutorily recognized cost, whether incurred prior or subsequent to the 
conclusion of the investigation of the matter. 
(3) 
The Commission reserves the discretion to deny, in whole or in part, any request 
for reimbursement of costs. 
(4) 
Unless otherwise ordered, costs must be paid to the ordered recipient on or 
before the thirtieth day from the date of the order awarding the costs, unless 
stayed by the Commission or other court of competent jurisdiction. Failure to pay 
and tender costs as ordered shall constitute grounds for sanction, including fine 
and revocation of any license or other affirmative approval.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 207-2 
Division of Gaming 
 
83 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Temporary Rule 3 emer. rule eff. 11/21/2019. 
Rule 3 eff. 03/16/2020. 
Rules 1, 2, 4-10 eff. 04/14/2020. 
Rule 1.4(15) emer. rule eff. 04/30/2020. 
Rule 1.4(15) eff. 08/14/2020. 
Rules 1.4, 6.20 eff. 12/15/2020. 
Rule 3.5(3) eff. 02/14/2022. 
Rules 2.11, 4.1(3), 5.1, 5.2, 5.4, 6.11(4), 6.13, 6.14, 7.2, 7.5(31), 7.6(1)(d)-(e), 7.6(2)(a), 
7.7(3), 7.8(1), 7.8(2)(b), 7.11(4)(f), 7.11(5)(f), 8.1, 8.2(1) eff. 05/15/2022. 
Rule 3.5(2) emer. rule eff. 08/10/2022. 
Basis and Purpose for Rule 9, Rules 9.1-9.6 emer. rules eff. 10/27/2022. 
Rules 3.5(2), 7.5(35) eff. 10/30/2022. 
Rules 7.8(2)(c), Basis and Purpose for Rule 9, Rules 9.1-9.6 eff. 02/14/2023. 
Rule 3.16 eff. 07/15/2023. 
Rule 5.4 eff. 01/14/2024. 
Basis and Purpose for Rule 9, Rules 9.4(1)(d)-(e), 9.4(4), 9.5(1), 9.5(2), 9.5(3)(a), 9.5(5) 
eff. 03/16/2024. 
Rules 1.4, 7.6(15), 7.6(17) repealed, 7.13 eff. 06/14/2024. 
Rules 1.4(28), 6.11, 9 eff. 01/14/2026.
