---
id: "1_CCR_301-116"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1 CCR 301-116"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12522&fileName=1%20CCR%20301-116&type=pdf"
---

#### 1_CCR_301-116. 1 CCR 301-116

1 
Department of Education 
Colorado State Board of Education 
RULES FOR THE ADMINISTRATION OF POSTSECONDARY AND WORKFORCE 
READINESS START-UP FUNDING 
1 CCR 301-116 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
1.0 
Statement of Basis and Purpose 
These rules are adopted pursuant to the authority in section 22-54-203, C.R.S., as 
established by SB 25-315. The purpose of these rules is to enhance equity in access to 
postsecondary and workforce readiness programs by adopting a formula for the 
allocation of funds to local education providers. To that end, these rules establish a 
funding formula to determine a local education provider’s start-up funding, the eligibility 
requirements for local education providers to receive such funding, and the categories 
of eligible expenses for such funding. 
2.0 
Definitions 
2.1 
"Department" means the Department of Education, created in section 24-1-115, 
C.R.S.  
2.2 
"Industry-recognized credential" means an industry certification and a nondegree 
credential, as both are defined in section 23-5-145.8, C.R.S., that satisfy the 
requirements developed pursuant to section 23-5-145.6(2), C.R.S., and identified 
in the most recent annual Colorado talent pipeline report prepared pursuant to 
section 24-46.3-103(3), C.R.S.  
2.3 
"Local Education Provider (LEP)" means a school district, a charter school 
authorized by a school district pursuant to part 1 of article 30.5 of title 22, a 
charter school authorized by the state charter school institute pursuant to part 5 
of article 30.5 of title 22, or a board of cooperative services created and operating 
pursuant to article 5 of title 22 that operates one or more public schools.  
2.4 
"Postsecondary and Workforce Readiness Start-Up Funding" or "start-up 
funding" means funding pursuant to section 22-54-203, C.R.S.  
2.5 
"Postsecondary credit attainment" means transferrable college credit(s) that may 
be attained while a student is in high school, in alignment with the Colorado 
commission on higher education admissions standards set forth in section 23-1-
113, C.R.S., which may include the successful completion of a concurrent 
enrollment course as described in sections 22-35-103 and 22-35-104 (5)(b), 
C.R.S., a sufficient score as determined by the State Board of Education on an 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

Code of Colorado Regulations 
1 CCR 301-116 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
2 
end-of-course advanced placement exam, or a sufficient score in an international 
baccalaureate course.  
2.6 
"Work-based learning" means demonstrating learning through work or at work, 
consistent with the work-based learning quality expectations established 
pursuant to section 8-83-602(5), C.R.S. "Work-based learning" includes the 
same meaning as set forth in section 8-83-601, C.R.S.  
3.0 
Start-Up Funding Eligibility Requirements 
3.1 
General eligibility 
LEP eligibility for start-up funding will be based on the formula factors identified in 
section 4 of these rules as well as a demonstrated need for resources to achieve equity 
through developing and implementing postsecondary and workforce readiness 
programs. 
3.2 
Opt-in and assurances 
In order to be eligible for potential funding under the formula outlined in section 4 of 
these rules, an LEP must opt-in to receiving funding and provide an assurance to the 
Department that it is ready to use start-up funding on eligible expenses identified in 
section 5 of these rules. The Department shall develop a method for collecting 
assurances from LEPs prior to determining final funding amounts and distributing funds. 
Interested LEPs shall provide an assurance to the Department within 30 days after 
receiving notification of funding availability from the Department. 
4.0 
Start-Up Funding Formula 
4.1 
Data used to determine start-up funding 
In order to create consistency across all elements of the start-up funding formula, the 
Department shall use the most recent set of comprehensive data across all metrics 
validated by the Department when calculating and distributing start-up funding. 
4.2 
Start-up funding formula metrics 
The Department shall use the following metrics for calculations in section 4.3 of these 
rules. Metrics include an LEP’s: 
4.2(1) Postsecondary and workforce readiness program participation rate. This rate is 
based on student participation and outcomes as calculated by the Department for 
relevant postsecondary workforce readiness programs and activities such as the 
Career Development Incentive Program, industry recognized credentials, work-
based learning, Accelerating Students through Concurrent Enrollment 
(ASCENT), Teacher Recruitment Education and Preparation (TREP) program, 
Pathways in Technology Early College High Schools (P-TECH), Innovative 
Learning Opportunities Pilot (ILOP) program, and early college.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
1 CCR 301-116 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
3 
4.2(2) Percentage of students in grades 9-12 identified in the annual October count as 
eligible for free and reduced-price lunch (FRL).  
4.2(3) Chronic absenteeism rate for students in grades 9-12 as identified in the 
Department’s annual attendance data collection. 
4.2(4) Dropout rate for students in grades 9-12 as identified in the Department’s annual 
end-of-year data collection, excluding students who are or were enrolled in an 
alternative school. 
4.2(5) Four-year graduation rate calculated by the Department based on data from its 
annual end-of-year data collection. 
4.2(6) National Center for Education Statistics (NECS) locale designation pursuant to 
section 22-54-103.5(12)(d), C.R.S. 
4.3 
Minimum and maximum student counts 
In addition to the metrics identified in section 4.2 of these rules, the formula for start-up 
funding includes an LEP’s adjusted funded student count for students in grades 9-12. 
The adjusted student count reflects the number of students in an LEP in grades 9-12 
identified for funding in the annual October count. The maximum for the adjusted 
student count shall be 2,000 students, such that any LEP with more than 2,000 students 
in grades 9-12 as identified for funding in the annual October count shall have an 
adjusted student count of 2,000. The minimum for the adjusted student count shall be 
500 students, such that any LEP with less than 500 students and at least one student in 
grades 9-12 as identified for funding in the annual October count shall have an adjusted 
student count of 500. The funded student count means the number of students in 
grades 9-12 identified for full-time funding only in the annual October count. 
4.4  
Start-up formula calculations 
4.4(1) High, medium, and low threshold determinations 
Each metric identified in section 4.2 of these rules shall have an associated high, 
medium, and low threshold for purposes of calculating start-up funding. These 
thresholds shall be determined annually by the Department. 
4.4(2) Points awarded based on threshold determinations 
LEPs are awarded points for each metric identified in section 4.2 of these rules 
consistent with the applicable threshold band (high, medium or low) identified in 
section 4.4(A) of these rules. Points awarded based on metric and threshold 
bands are outlined below. 
4.4(2)(a) 
Postsecondary and workforce readiness program participation rate 
in grades 9-12

Code of Colorado Regulations 
1 CCR 301-116 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
4 
4.4(2)(a)(i) 
Above High threshold: 0.0 points 
4.4(2)(a)(ii) High to Medium threshold: 1.0 points 
4.4(2)(a)(iii) Medium to Low threshold: 24.0 points 
4.4(2)(a)(iv) Less than Low threshold: 4.0 points 
4.4(2)(b) 
Percentage of students in grades 9-12 identified in the annual 
October count as eligible for free and reduced-price lunch (FRL)  
4.4(2)(b)(i) 
Above High threshold: 2.0 points 
4.4(2)(b)(ii) High to Medium threshold: 1.5 points 
4.4(2)(b)(iii) Medium to Low threshold: 1.0 points 
4.4(2)(b)(iv) Less than Low threshold: 0.0 points 
4.4(2)(c) 
Chronic absenteeism rate for students in grades 9-12 as identified 
in the Department’s annual attendance data collection 
4.4(2)(c)(i) 
Above High threshold: 2.0 points 
4.4(2)(c)(ii) 
High to Medium threshold: 1.5 points  
4.4(2)(c)(iii)  Medium to Low threshold: 1.0 points 
4.4(2)(c)(iv) Less than Low threshold: 0.0 points 
4.4(2)(d) 
Four-year graduation rate calculated by the Department based on 
data from its annual end-of-year data collection 
4.4(2)(d)(i) 
Above High threshold: 0.0 points 
4.4(2)(d)(ii) High to Medium threshold: 0.5 points 
4.4(2)(d)(iii) Medium to Low threshold: 0.75 points 
4.4(2)(d)(iv) Less than Low threshold: 1.0 points 
4.4(2)(e) 
Dropout rate for students in grades 9-12 as identified in the 
Department’s annual end-of-year data collection, excluding students who 
are or were enrolled in an alternative school. 
4.4(2)(e)(i) 
Above High threshold: 1.0 points 
4.4(2)(e)(ii) High to Medium threshold: 0.75 points

Code of Colorado Regulations 
1 CCR 301-116 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
5 
4.4(2)(e)(iii) Medium to Low threshold: 0.5 points 
4.4(2)(e)(iv) Less than Low threshold: 0.0 points 
4.4(2)(f) 
NCES Locale Classification type and subtype as determined by the 
National Center for Education Statistics in the Institute of Education 
Sciences of the United States Department of Education. 
4.4(2)(f)(i) 
Rural: Remote: 2.0 points 
4.4(2)(f)(ii) 
Rural: Distant: 1.75 points 
4.4(2)(f)(iii) 
Rural: Fringe: 1.5 points 
4.4(2)(f)(iv) Town: Remote: 1.25 points 
4.4(2)(f)(v) 
Town: Distant: 1.0 points 
4.4(2)(f)(vi) Town: Fringe: 0.75 points 
4.4(2)(f)(vii) Suburban: Small: 0.0 points 
4.4(2)(f)(viii) Suburban: Midsize: 0.0 points 
4.4(2)(f)(ix) Suburban: Large: 0.0 points 
4.4(2)(f)(x) 
City: Small: 0.0 points 
4.4(2)(f)(xi) City: Midsize: 0.0 points 
4.4(2)(f)(xii) City: Large: 0.0 points 
4.4(3) Allocation calculation 
4.4(3)(a) 
In order to calculate an LEPs allocation of start-up funding, the 
Department shall sum the LEP’s points for each metric as determined in 
section 4.4(2) of these rules. 
4.4(3)(a)(i) 
If the sum of those points is greater than or equal to the point 
threshold as determined by the department, then the Department 
shall calculate Start-Up funding as follows: 
4.4(3)(a)(i)(A) 
The Department shall sum the LEP’s points for 
each metric as determined in section 4.4(2) of these rules 
and multiply the total points by the LEPs adjusted student 
count as determined under section 4.3 of these rules. 
4.4(3)(a)(i)(B) 
The Department shall calculate the summation 
of all remaining eligible LEPs total point allocations multiplied

Code of Colorado Regulations 
1 CCR 301-116 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
6 
by all eligible remaining LEPs grades 9-12 adjusted student 
count. 
4.4(3)(a)(i)(C) 
The Department shall then divide the amount 
calculated under section 4.4(3)(a)(i)(A) of these rules by the 
amount calculated under section 4.4(3)(a)(i)(B) of these 
rules. 
4.4(3)(a)(i)(D) 
The Department shall then multiply the amount 
calculated under section 4.4(3)(a)(i)(C) of these rules by the 
amount available annually for Start-Up funding. 
4.4(3)(a)(ii) If the sum of the points calculated for an LEP under section 
4.4(3)(a) of these rules is less than point threshold identified by the 
Department, then an LEP is not eligible for Start-Up funding for the 
current fiscal year. 
5.0 
Start-Up Funding Eligible Expenses 
LEPs shall use start-up funding for expenses that are associated with developing and 
implementing a postsecondary and workforce readiness program that fits into one or 
more of the categories identified in section 5.1 of these rules, aligns with the state’s 
workforce demands or priorities, and supports students in successfully earning 
postsecondary credit or industry-recognized credentials, or successfully completing 
work-based learning requirements.  
5.1 
Categories of eligible expenses 
The following are considered categories of eligible expenses for start-up funding: 
5.1(1) Program planning and design. Eligible expenses in this category may include, but 
are not necessarily limited to, paying school staff for additional time to write 
curriculum and develop new Career and Technical Education programs. 
5.1(2) Course materials, technology, and equipment. Eligible expenses in this category 
may include, but are not necessarily limited to curriculum, books, software and 
software subscriptions, machines, supplies, industry-aligned tools and 
equipment, equipment upkeep and repair, industry certification fees, and 
Advanced Placement and International Baccalaureate exam fees. 
5.1(3) Professional development, certification, authorization, or licensure. Eligible 
expenses in this category may include, but are not necessarily limited to, initial or 
professional Career and Technical Education authorization and endorsement; 
staff tuition reimbursement; costs associated with creating and implementing staff 
training related to quality in-demand non-degree credentials, earned 
postsecondary credits, or high-quality work-based learning opportunities.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
1 CCR 301-116 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
7 
5.1(4) Contracting with an entity or hiring school staff to support the development and 
implementation of a postsecondary workforce readiness program. Eligible 
expenses in this category may include, but are not necessarily limited to, school 
and district staff salaries to develop partnerships and write curriculum; 
contracting with BOCES, multi-district collaboratives and intermediary partners to 
analyze local workforce needs and develop partnerships; contracting for 
technical assistance to help design and establish postsecondary workforce 
readiness programs. 
5.1(5) Individual career and academic plan resources and supports, as described in 
section 22-2-136, C.R.S., including academic and career advising and 
exploration. Eligible expenses in this category may include, but are not 
necessarily limited to, student support staff salaries, such as school counselors, 
and online platforms to manage individual career and academic plan processes. 
5.1(6) Costs associated with concurrent enrollment. Eligible expenses in this category 
may include, but are not necessarily limited to, covering expenses for teachers to 
become qualified concurrent enrollment instructors, student fees, transportation 
costs, stipends for concurrent enrollment teachers. However, student tuition for 
concurrent enrollment is not an eligible expense. 
5.1(7) Costs associated with work-based learning. Eligible expenses in this category 
may include, but are not necessarily limited to, student stipends, apprentice 
wages, background check fees for employees working with students, costs 
associated with labor market analysis, and insurance costs. 
5.1(8) Transportation costs. Eligible expenses in this category may include, but are not 
necessarily limited to, district-owned transportation, public transportation and 
transportation alternatives such as rideshares. 
5.1(9) Outreach, awareness and marketing costs to help students, families and 
businesses learn about available postsecondary workforce readiness 
opportunities. Eligible expenses in this category may include, but are not 
necessarily limited to, graphic design, advertising fees and printing fees. 
6.0 
Economies of scale 
LEPs are encouraged to collaborate with each other, as well as board of cooperative 
services (BOCES) to maximize economies of scale and expand student access to a 
postsecondary and workforce readiness program.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
1 CCR 301-116 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
8 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 05/01/2026.
