---
id: "1_CCR_301-22"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1 CCR 301-22"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=2993&fileName=1%20CCR%20301-22&type=pdf"
---

#### 1_CCR_301-22. 1 CCR 301-22

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
Colorado State Board of Education 
REGIONAL LIBRARY SERVICE SYSTEM 
1 CCR 301-22 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
2202-R-0.00  Statement of Basis and Purpose. 
Statement of Basis and Purpose 
The State Board, upon the Department’s recommendation, amends 1 CCR 301-22 to conform to statutory 
changes enacted in 2005 in 24-90-101, C.R.S. et seq., and to incorporate the current practices based on 
the statutory scheme. The amendments clarify System plan and voting requirements. Existing rules were 
last approved in 1994. These rules are enacted pursuant to the authority found in Section 24-90-105 
(1)(a)(II)(g), C.R.S.; 24-90-105 (2) (c) C.R.S.; 24-90-115 (1) (b) C.R.S. The amendments adopted by the 
Board: 1) Update portions of the present rules which are out-of-date and no longer relevant, 2) Promote 
greater efficiency and effectiveness in the Regional Library Service System operations, 3) Clarify and 
strengthen the reporting and Regional Library Service System accountability, 4) Coordinate System 
activity towards the improvement of library service for the state's libraries and the residents of Colorado. 
2490-R-70.00  Definition and Mission. 
70.01  Definition of RLSS.  A Regional Library Service System is an organization of publicly supported 
libraries within a designated geographic area established to develop and coordinate cooperative 
services. A System provides continuing education, consulting, technical assistance, and 
professional support for all publicly supported member libraries and the Colorado library 
community. 
70.02  Mission of RLSS.  A Regional Library Service System encourages, promotes, and aids System 
members by providing leadership in developing library and media services. A System works 
cooperatively and in collaboration with any other Systems that may be created, the State Library, 
library communities, and other organizations to meet the information needs of Colorado residents 
now and in the future. 
70.03  Geographic Area.  All geographic areas of Colorado are currently included in a Regional Library 
Service System. The geographic area of a Regional Library Service System will be based on the 
effective and efficient coordination and utilization of library resources. Changes in System 
boundaries are made by the State Board of Education, upon recommendation of the Colorado 
State Librarian or designee, after consultation with the boards of the impacted Systems. 
2490-R-71.00  System Membership. 
71.01  Types of Members 
71.01 (a)  Public Libraries.  Any public library legally established as defined by Section 24-90-
103, C.R.S., and its subsequent amendments or revisions may elect to participate in a 
System. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
2 
71.01 (b)  School Districts.  Any school district organized and existing pursuant to Section 22-30-
103, C.R.S., may elect to participate in a System. 
71.01 (c)  Academic Libraries.  Any state university, college, or community college as defined by 
Section 23-2-102, C.R.S., may elect to participate in a System. 
71.01 (d)  Special Libraries and Cooperatives.  Any publicly supported special library or 
cooperative providing library services may elect to participate in a System. 
71.02  Associates.  A System Board may extend non-voting associate status as defined by individual 
System bylaws. 
2490-R-72.00  System Governance 
72.01  Membership Council 
72.01 (a)  The Membership Council will consist of one voting representative from each System 
member. A council representative will be specifically empowered by the System member 
to represent it. 
72.01 (b)  A Governing Board which is representative of at least three of the four types of 
members will be elected through an annual election, by the Membership Council as 
defined by 72.01 (a). 
72.02  Governing Boards.  The governing body of a Regional Library Service System will be called the 
Governing Board, pursuant to Section 24-90-115, C.R.S. The Governing Board will have the right 
to exercise all powers vested in a public library board of trustees pursuant to Section 24-90-109, 
C.R.S. 
72.03  Staff 
72.03 (a)  The Governing Board will employ the director of the Regional Library Service System in 
compliance with applicable state and federal equal employment opportunity laws. The 
director must hold a graduate degree from an American Library Association accredited 
school, or a masters degree in educational media or educational technology from a 
National Council of Accreditation of Teacher Education (NCATE) accredited institution of 
higher education. 
72.03 (b)  The Governing Board of a Regional Library Service System, upon the recommendation 
of the director, will employ such other staff as may be necessary in compliance with 
applicable state and federal equal employment opportunity laws. 
72.03 (c)  The Governing Board will adopt personnel policies which may include staff selection, 
resignation and dismissal procedures, leave policies, job descriptions, employee benefits, 
and personnel performance evaluations. 
2490-R-73.00  Long Range Plan and Annual Plan 
73.01  Long Range Plan 
73.01 (a)  A Long Range Plan to provide developmental and strategic guidance for a System 
shall be submitted every three years by the governing board to the Colorado State 
Librarian or designee. Plans shall be submitted 90 days prior to the fiscal year in 
accordance with a timeline set by the Colorado State Librarian.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
3 
73.01 (b)  The Long Range Plan shall include, but not be limited to: 
(1)  Needs assessment 
(2)  Goals and objectives 
(3)  Proposed evaluation process 
73.02  Annual Plan 
73.02 (a)  A System is required to have an Annual Plan. The Annual Plan will be submitted by the 
Governing Board for approval to the Colorado State Librarian or designee no later than 
90 days prior to the beginning of the System's next fiscal year. 
73.02 (b)  The Annual Plan for a System's fiscal year will include: 
1)  Services that address the State’s Long Range Plan for libraries 
(2)  Goals and objectives 
(3)  Budget 
(4)  Other information as needed or as requested by the Colorado State Librarian in 
consultation with the System director. 
2490-R-74.00  Funding, Reporting, and Fiscal Year 
74.01  Funding 
74.01 (a)  Funds appropriated by the Colorado General Assembly for a Regional Library Service 
System will be allocated by the Colorado State Librarian, or designee. Elements for 
allocation may include, but need not be limited to: basic administrative costs, other 
factors related to System service areas, and the State's Long Range Plan for libraries. 
74.01 (b)  A System will receive 90% of its total annual state funding upon receipt and approval of 
the System's next fiscal year Annual Plan by the Colorado State Librarian, or designee. 
74.01 (c)  A System will receive 10% of its total annual state funding upon receipt and approval of 
the Annual Report for the previous fiscal year required in Rule 2490-R-74.02 (b) by the 
Colorado State Librarian or designee. 
74.01 (d)  These regulations will not be construed in such a way as to restrict or hamper the 
Governing Board in obtaining or accepting private financial support, supplementary public 
funding, or grants from any agency, public or private, or entering into remunerative 
contracts or agreements in accord with the System Annual or Long Range Plan. 
74.02  Reporting 
74.02 (a)  The Governing Board will have the System's financial records audited annually in 
accordance with generally accepted auditing principles. The written audit shall be 
submitted to the Colorado State Librarian, or designee, no more than six months after the 
close of the System's fiscal year.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
4 
74.02 (b)  The Governing Board will submit an Annual Report providing statistical and narrative 
information requested by the Colorado State Librarian, or designee. The Annual Report 
will include a report of activities related to goals and objectives in the System's Annual 
Plan, and sources of income of System activities. This document is to be submitted to the 
Colorado State Librarian or designee no later than 90 days after the close of the 
System's fiscal year. 
74.03  Fiscal Year. The fiscal year of the Systems will be determined by the Colorado State Librarian, or 
designee. 
2490-R-75.00  System Establishment 
75.01  Establishment of a new Regional Library Service System requires the submission of an 
organizational plan to the Colorado State Librarian or designee for approval by the State Board of 
Education. The organizational plan will include, but not be limited to: 
75.01 (a)  A copy of proposed bylaws. 
75.01 (b)  Description of structure. 
75.01 (c)  Evidence of the endorsement of participating libraries. 
75.01 (d)  Hiring of System director in accordance with Rule 2490-R-72.03, and designation of 
System headquarters. 
75.01 (e)  Procedures permitting membership of all types of publicly supported libraries. 
75.01 (f)  Procedures for a library to inform a System that it wishes to become a member or 
withdraw from membership. 
75.01 (g)  Needs assessment for the System area. 
75.01 (h)  A statement of long-range goals and objectives of the System. 
2490-R-76.00  Dissolution and Mergers 
76.01  In the event the Board or a majority of members represented by the Board decides that the need 
for a Regional Library Service System ceases to exist, the Governing Board thereof may, by a 
two-thirds vote of its System members, declare its intent to dissolve the organization and file with 
the Colorado State Librarian, or designee, a plan for effecting such dissolution, which will be 
carried out upon approval by the State Board of Education pursuant to Section 24-90-115, C.R.S. 
76.02  In the event of a reconfiguration of one or more Systems, a plan for disposition of assets and 
liabilities must be submitted to the State Librarian, or designee, along with the organization plan 
for reconfiguration and must be approved by the State Board of Education. 
2490-R-77.00  Local Autonomy. 
The organization or operation of a Regional Library Service System will not be construed to infringe upon 
the autonomy of any Board of Trustees of a public library or the Governing Board of any publicly 
supported library in accordance with Section 24-90-115, C.R.S.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
5 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 06/30/2009.
