---
id: "1_CCR_201-9"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1 CCR 201-9"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=11049&fileName=1%20CCR%20201-9&type=pdf"
---

#### 1_CCR_201-9. 1 CCR 201-9

Code of Colorado Regulations 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE 
Taxation Division 
PASSENGER MILE TAX 
1 CCR 201-9 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Rule 42-3-304(13).  Passenger Mile Tax. 
Basis and Purpose. The bases for this rule are sections 39-21-112(1), 42-1-204, 42-3-304(13), and 42-
3-307, C.R.S. The purpose of this rule is to clarify when the passenger mile tax applies. 
(1) 
General Rule. The passenger mile tax applies to any vehicle with a seating capacity of more than 
fourteen that is operated for the transportation of passengers over public highways of this state 
for compensation. 
(2) 
Exceptions. 
(a) 
For buses or trolley coaches engaged in the mass transportation of the general public, 
the tax does not apply to service rendered within the boundaries of a city, city and county, 
or incorporated town, but does apply to service rendered outside these designated areas. 
(b) 
For a vehicle operated by a government entity or a charitable organization as defined by 
section 39-26-102(2.5), C.R.S., the tax does not apply if no direct charge for 
transportation is made to the user of the service. However, for a vehicle operated by a 
government entity or a charitable organization as defined by section 39-26-102(2.5), 
C.R.S., the tax does apply if a direct charge for transportation is made to the user of the 
service. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 08/30/2023. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado
