---
id: "1_CCR_302-2"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1 CCR 302-2"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=3355&fileName=1%20CCR%20302-2&type=pdf"
---

#### 1_CCR_302-2. 1 CCR 302-2

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
Colorado Charter School Institute 
1 CCR 302-2 
RULES FOR THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE HEALTHY BEVERAGES POLICY 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
1.0  Statement of Basis and Purpose 
The statutory basis for these rules is found in sections  § 22-30.5-505, and  § 22-30.5-517, Colorado 
Revised Statutes. 
Pursuant to these statutes, the Charter School Institute board shall promulgate rules to achieve the 
following purposes, including but not limited to: 
(a)  Describing beverages that school districts and schools may permit to be sold to 
students; 
(b)  Each beverage described shall satisfy minimum nutritional standards for beverages, 
which standards are science-based and established by a national organization; 
and 
(c)  Describing specific events occurring outside of the regular and extended school day. 
2.0  Definitions 
2.01  “Institute charter school”  means a school that received a majority of its funding from moneys raised 
by a general state, county, or district tax and whose property is owned and operated by a political 
subdivision of the state. 
2.02  "State Board" means the State Board of Education created pursuant to Section 1 of Article IX of the 
State Constitution. 
2.03  "Extended School Day" means the regular hours of operation for any public school including 
institute charter schools, plus any time spent by students after the regular hours of operation for 
any purpose, including but not limited to participation in extracurricular activities or childcare 
programs. 
3.0  Establishing of Healthy Beverage Standards for Schools 
3.01  Beginning July 1, 2009, beverages sold to students on school grounds during the regular and 
extended school day shall, at a minimum, meet the following nutritional standards. 
3.01.1  Beverages sold in elementary school 
(a)  Bottled water 
(b)  Up to 8 ounce servings of fat free or low fat milk. Milk includes nutritionally equivalent 
milk alternatives (per USDA) 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
2 
(c)  Up to 8 ounce servings of fat free or low fat nutritionally equivalent flavored milk up to 
150 calories / 8 ounces 
(d)  Up to 8 ounce servings of 100% juice, with no added sweeteners and up to 120 
calories / 8 ounces 
3.01.2  Beverages sold in middle school 
(a)  Bottled water 
(b)  Up to 10 ounce servings of fat free or low fat milk. Milk includes nutritionally 
equivalent milk alternatives (per USDA) 
(c)  Up to 10 ounce servings of fat free or low fat nutritionally equivalent flavored milk up 
to 150 calories / 8 ounces 
(d)  Up to 10 ounce servings of 100% juice, with no added sweeteners and up to 120 
calories / 8 ounces 
3.01.3  Beverages sold in high school 
(a)  Bottled water 
(b)  No or low calorie beverages with up to 10 calories / 8 ounces, except diet soda may 
not be sold in high school (e.g., unsweetened or diet teas, low calorie sport 
drinks, fitness waters, flavored waters, seltzers) 
(c)  Up to 12 ounce servings of fat free or low fat milk. Milk includes nutritionally 
equivalent milk alternatives (per USDA) 
(d)  Up to 12 ounce servings of fat free or low fat nutritionally equivalent flavored milk up 
to 150 calories / 8 ounces 
(e)  Up to 12 ounce servings of 100% juice, with no added sweeteners and up to 120 
calories / 8 ounces 
(f)  Other drinks, up to 12 ounce servings with no more than 66 calories / 8 ounces 
(g)  At least 50% of non-milk beverages must be water and no or low calorie options 
3.02  If the middle and high school students have shared access to areas on a common campus or in 
common buildings, then the school community has the option to adopt the high school standard. 
3.03  The sale of beverages to students from any source includes but is not limited to: school cafeterias, 
vending machines, school stores, and fund-raising activities conducted on school campuses. 
3.04  The provisions of these beverage standards shall apply to beverage contracts entered into or 
renewed by a school district on or after July 1, 2009. 
3.05  To the greatest extent possible beverage products should be Colorado produced products. 
4.0  Events occurring outside of the regular and extended school day

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
3 
4.01.1  The extended school day includes but is not limited to, before and after school activities 
such as clubs, year book, band, student government, drama, and childcare/latchkey 
programs. 
4.01.2  School-Related Events where parents and other adults are a significant part of an 
audience are exempt from these rules. Such activities include but are not limited to 
selling beverages as boosters at events such as interscholastic sporting events, school 
plays, and band concerts. 
5.0  Implementation Procedures 
5.01  On or before July 1, 2009, the state charter school institute shall adopt and implement a policy for 
the sale of beverages that at a minimum meet the standards set forth in these rules. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2010.
