---
id: "1_CCR_301-39"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1 CCR 301-39"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12215&fileName=1%20CCR%20301-39&type=pdf"
---

#### 1_CCR_301-39. 1 CCR 301-39

1 
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
Colorado State Board of Education 
RULES FOR THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOL FINANCE ACT 
1 CCR 301-39 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Statement of Basis and Purpose 
These rules are adopted pursuant to the authority in section 22-54-103(10) and (10.5), -104(5)(c)(IV), -
120, and -129(6), C.R.S., and are intended to be consistent with the requirements of the State 
Administrative Procedures Act, sections 24-4-101, et seq., C.R.S. The purpose of these Rules is to: 
Establish regulations and procedures for administration of the Public School Finance Act, including (but 
not limited to) procedures for revocation or withholding of school district accreditation for Act violations; 
determination of district pupil membership, enrollment, and district at-risk funding; English Language 
Learner funding; and assignment of cost of living factors in the event of district reorganizations; 
Implementing funding for approved facility schools and state programs; coordinating these rules with the 
administration of the Exceptional Children Educational Act (Article 20 of Title 22, C.R.S.); and assuring 
the pupil count associated with the Public School Finance Act fairly distributes funding to school districts 
to provide continuing instructional services. 
1. 
Definitions 
1.01 
“Alternative teacher-pupil instruction” means the organized delivery of educational content 
(aligned to state standards where applicable) for pupils enrolled in a brick-and-mortar public 
school under the supervision of a licensed educator that may take place asynchronously. The 
following types of courses with alternative teacher-pupil instruction can be funded with 
appropriate documentation: independent study, work-based learning as defined in sections 22-
54-202(8) and 8-83-601(15), C.R.S., blended learning, and supplemental online learning. 
1.01(1) Work-based learning courses are credit-bearing courses that must be incorporated within 
the student’s Individual Career and Academic Plan (ICAP) in order to qualify for funding. 
They are learning opportunities that occur in part or in whole in the workplace and 
provide the learner with hands-on, real-world experience and training for skills 
development. 
1.01(2) Blended Learning courses are credit-bearing courses for a student enrolled in a 
traditional brick-and-mortar school where some of the direct instruction is regularly 
received in-person and on-site and some of the digitally delivered asynchronous 
instruction is received off-site (with some element of student control over the time and 
place of participation). 
 
 
 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-39 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
2 
1.01(3) Independent study courses are credit-bearing courses in which some or all of the course 
is being completed off-site, independently by the student. They include the provision of 
content aligned to grade-level standards (where applicable) and are substantially 
equivalent to a traditional course. In order to qualify for funding, the independent study 
course must have a written learning plan that includes the course outline or plan for 
study, the digital or print curriculum or materials to be used, requirements for submitting 
assignments and recording the academic progress, and the role of the supervising 
licensed teacher. A pupil can be funded for only one alternative instruction independent 
study course for the fall semester unless the student has exhausted the curriculum 
options in their brick-and-mortar school. 
1.01(4) Supplemental online courses are credit-bearing courses taken by students enrolled in 
traditional, brick-and-mortar schools in which all of the instruction is digitally delivered and 
is received off-site or is taken on-site but not at a scheduled time where attendance is 
mandatory. 
1.01(5) Credit-bearing means that a passing grade and credits are given for satisfactory 
completion of course requirements within the parameters of the academic calendar. 
1.01(6) Asynchronous means the delivery of educational content designed to allow the teacher 
and the pupils to engage with the educational content at different times. 
1.01(7) On-site means the physical location where the school or contractor regularly delivers in 
person instruction. 
1.01(8) Equivalency refers to the fundable time for alternative instruction courses. Whereas direct 
instruction is funded based on “time in seat,” alternative instruction courses are based on 
an equivalency to the time that a pupil would have been “in a seat” if they had taken a 
similar course in-person and on-site. The instructional time for all alternative instruction 
courses will be determined based on equivalency to a same or similar credit-bearing 
course in the school or district that is delivered 100 percent on site. 
1.02 
“Applicable count date” means the pupil enrollment count date under section 3 of these rules or, if 
approved by the Department, the alternative count date under section 4 of these rules. 
1.03 
“BOCES” means a board of cooperative services pursuant to Article 5 of Title 22, C.R.S. 
1.04 
“Catalog of Courses Using Alternative Teacher-Pupil Instruction” means a listing of alternative 
teacher-pupil instruction courses that are eligible for student enrollment by a district, BOCES, 
innovation school, innovation zone, or charter school. 1.04(1) The catalog of courses using 
alternative teacher-pupil instruction must include a listing of courses, a description of each of the 
courses and identification of course provider if applicable, and the credit associated with each 
course. 
1.05 
“Commissioner” means the commissioner of education. 
1.06 
“District” means any public school district organized under the laws of Colorado, except a junior 
college district. “District” includes a BOCES, innovation school, innovation zone, charter school, 
or other entity when said entity has legal responsibility for the applicable school calendars and 
student schedules. 
1.07 
“Department” means the Colorado Department of Education.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-39 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
3 
1.08 
“Direct teacher-pupil instruction” means the organized delivery of educational content (aligned to 
state standards where applicable) for pupils enrolled in brick-and-mortar public schools under the 
supervision of a licensed educator that takes place synchronously, when the licensed educator 
and the pupil are in the same physical location or when the licensed educator and the pupil are in 
the same virtual classroom. Direct instruction also includes engagement with educational content 
in courses, such as study hall or advisory or credit recovery lab or independent study, that are 
onsite at a scheduled time during regular school hours and for a set amount of time and where 
attendance is mandatory. 
1.08(1) For the purpose of these rules, “synchronous” refers to the organized delivery of 
educational content which occurs during scheduled times and includes real-time 
interactions between teacher and pupils in-person, by video, or by phone. 
1.09 
“Home-bound pupil” means a pupil who cannot receive instruction in a school setting due to a 
temporary or permanent illness, hospitalization, medical or mental health impairment or condition, 
or due to an expelled or incarcerated status. 
1.10 
“Home school pupil” means a pupil receiving a non-public home-based educational program 
pursuant to Section 22-33-104.5, C.R.S. who is also enrolled and receiving instruction part-time 
from a Colorado public school. 
1.11 
“Licensed educator” or “licensed teacher” means a teacher with an active Colorado educator 
credential. Each local board shall define “supervision of a licensed teacher.” For purposes of 
these Rules only, “licensed teacher” shall be construed to include any educator of record when 
the district is not required by law to use a licensed teacher. 
1.12 
“Local board” means the board of education of a district or the board of a BOCES, charter school, 
innovation school, innovation zone, or other entity when said entity has legal responsibility for the 
applicable school calendar and student schedule. 
1.13 
“Major Religious Holiday,” for purposes of identifying a statewide pupil enrollment count, means a 
day or days on which approximately two (2) percent of the state’s K-12 pupil population is likely to 
be absent in order to observe a religious holiday. The Department will identify the percentage of 
pupils likely to observe a religious holiday based on the most current religious demographic data 
available from a reliable research organization, such as the Association of Religious Data 
Archives or The Pew Research Center’s Forum on Religion and Public Life. 
1.14 
“Private school pupil” means a pupil enrolled in an independent or parochial school which 
provides a basic academic education pursuant to Section 22-33-104(2)(b), C.R.S. and who has   
also been enrolled by a parent or guardian and receiving instruction part-time from a Colorado 
public school. 
1.15 
“Pupil” means, except as otherwise provided in Section 22-2-402(7) or Articles 20 and 28 of Title 
22, C.R.S, a student (1) under age 21 as of October 1 of the applicable budget year who has not 
met the graduation requirements of the district as of the applicable count date, and (2) at least 
age five as of October 1 of the applicable budget year. 
1.16 
“Semester” means the total number of scheduled student contact days for the school year as 
documented by the district’s adopted board calendar divided by two. 
1.17 
“State Board” means the state board of education.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-39 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
4 
2. 
General 
2.01 
The Public School Finance Act of 1994 and these rules shall apply to all schools within districts. 
Section 2.05 does not apply to online schools and programs, which are governed instead by §22- 
30.7-105(2)(a) and 1 CCR 301-71, Rule 8. The Commissioner may grant variances to any or all 
of these Rules. 
2.01(1) If the Department determines that a district has not complied with the provisions of the 
Public School Finance Act of 1994 or these rules, the Department shall notify such district 
in writing of the specific violation and shall state that the district’s accreditation may be 
revoked or withheld by the State Board for such violation. 
2.01(2) Such district shall have 30 days in which to respond in writing to the Department’s 
notification. 
2.01(3) The Department shall review such responses. 
2.01(3)(a) 
If after making such review, the Department determines that such district 
is in compliance, no further action is necessary. 
2.01(3)(b) 
If after making such review, the Department determines that such district 
is still not in compliance, it shall forward the notification and the district response 
to the State Board. 
2.01(4) When necessary, the State Board shall schedule a hearing with such district at 
the next available regularly scheduled State Board meeting occurring after the 
end of the 30-day district response time and shall notify the district of such 
hearing. 
2.01(5) At such hearing, the Department shall present its findings of non-compliance to 
the State Board, and the district shall respond to such presentation. 
2.01(6) At the next regularly scheduled State Board meeting following such presentation, 
the State Board shall decide if it intends to revoke or withhold such district’s 
accreditation under section 22-2-106(1), C.R.S., and shall notify the district in 
writing of its decision. 
2.01(7) If the State Board places such district on non-accredited status, the 
Commissioner shall initiate school organization planning pursuant to Article 30 of 
Title 22, C.R.S. 
2.02 
The Department shall prepare necessary forms and appropriate directions related thereto, which 
a district shall use to provide data required by the Department to meet its responsibilities in the 
Public School Finance Act of 1994. 
2.02(1) A district shall submit its electronic data exchange student file, along with a signed form 
“certification of pupil enrollment”, no later than November 10. 
2.03 
The Department shall make available to a district detailed procedures with standard forms and 
records, which a district shall use to compute its certification of pupil enrollment to the State 
Board pursuant to Section 22-54-112, C.R.S. 
2.03(1) A district may request and receive approval from the Department for alternative 
procedures for documentation which do not follow the standard procedural manual.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-39 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
5 
2.03(2) The Department requires districts to automate the pupil count process; nonetheless, any 
such computerization does not reduce or eliminate a district's obligation to provide source 
documents for auditing purposes. 
2.04 
Computation and reporting of data shall be as outlined below. 
2.04(1) A district and the Department shall compute and report mill levy data to the nearest 
thousandth. 
2.04(2) A district and the Department shall compute and report any dollar data to the nearest 
cent dollar. 
2.04(3) A district and the Department shall compute and report any funded pupil count, pupil 
membership and pupil enrollment data to the nearest tenth. 
2.05 
Instructional Time for Purposes of the School Finance Act 
2.05(1) To receive funding, a district must provide evidence of Instructional Time for purposes of 
funding each enrolled and attending pupil. 
2.05(1)(a) 
For grades six through twelve, Instructional Time for funding each pupil 
may include direct teacher-pupil instruction and alternative teacher-pupil 
instruction for that pupil. 
2.05(1)(a)(I) 
Alternative teacher-pupil instruction courses may not be 
considered for funding purposes if the course is not included in the 
published catalog. Beginning with calendars adopted for the 2024-25 
school year and each school year thereafter, districts shall publish a 
catalog of courses using alternative teacher-pupil instruction (as defined 
in these rules) for any such courses they intend to provide to secondary 
pupils that they would also like included as instructional time. The 
catalog must be published on the school/district/BOCES website by the 
applicable count date. 
2.05(1)(b) 
For grades kindergarten through five, Instructional Time for funding each 
pupil may include direct teacher-pupil instruction. 
2.05(1)(b)(I) 
Alternative teacher-pupil instruction time may be used for 
homebound students, as outlined in 5.03(2)(c). 
2.05(1)(c) 
For all grades, kindergarten through twelve: 
2.05(1)(c)(I) 
For on-site classes, passing between two classes, and between 
a class and lunch, may be included as instructional time which counts 
towards funding eligibility. Each passing that can be considered as 
instructional time which counts towards determining funding eligibility 
shall not exceed 7 minutes. 
2.05(1)(c)(II) 
Time provided for breakfast or lunch may not be included as 
instructional time for purposes of determining funding eligibility. 
2.05(1)(c)(II)(i) A lunch break of at least 20 minutes must be provided to 
students scheduled for more than five hours of daily instruction.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-39 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
6 
2.05(1)(c)(III) 
A district may include time for independent study and/or asynchronous 
learning that occurs off-site when a district conducts remote learning sporadically 
in response to public health and safety orders and precautions as instructional 
time for purposes of determining funding eligibility. 
2.05(1)(c)(IV) 
Instructional time for purposes of determining funding eligibility does not 
include parent-led or parent-directed instruction. 
2.05(1)(c)(IV)(i) Direct teacher-pupil instruction minutes cannot include the 
minutes where the parent is instructing or supervising the delivery of 
educational content. 
2.05(1)(c)(IV)(ii) Instructional time for purpose of the Public School Finance Act 
does not include instructional time based on the district (or its contractor) 
providing funding directly to families or creating a spending account for 
the parent to use to design their educational experience. For example, a 
music class counts as instructional time if it is designed by the district (or 
its contractor) and delivered by employees of the district (or its 
contractor) that are subject to the Department’s HR data collection; by 
contrast, a music class does not count as instructional time based on 
directly or indirectly providing funding to families (e.g., reimbursement or 
direct order) to pay for a private music instructor off-site. 
2.05(1)(c)(IV)(iii) 
For alternative teacher-pupil instruction courses, the 
course must be designed by the district or contractor rather than custom 
built by a parent. The catalog of courses must include the educational 
content that will be provided in the course, not what could be provided 
based on the interests of the parent. 
2.05(1)(c)(IV)(iv) 
Parent includes guardian or other person living in the 
home with the pupil. Parent does not include an individual who is 
employed by or contracted with the school or district and is subject to 
Human Resources data collections. 
2.05(1)(c)(V) 
In no instance shall a district submit a pupil for funding if the instructional 
time used to qualify a pupil for funding is provided in an environment that 
requires participation in a tuition-based non-public school. 
2.05(2) A district must comply with Section 22-32-109, C.R.S. regarding planned and actual 
hours for “teacher-pupil instruction and teacher-pupil contact” at the school level. The 
Commissioner issues additional guidance regarding the reporting of “teacher-pupil 
instruction and teacher-pupil contact” for purposes of Section 22-32-109(1)(n), C.R.S. In 
the Commissioner’s guidance, Instructional Time for purposes of funding under the 
School Finance Act may be the same or different from “teacher-pupil instruction and 
teacher-pupil contact” for purposes of planned and actual hours in compliance with 
Section 22-32-109(1)(n). 
3. 
Pupil Enrollment Count Date 
3.01 
The Department shall identify the pupil enrollment count date by no later than July 1 of each year. 
The pupil enrollment count date is October 1 of each year, except as otherwise provided below. 
3.01(1) In any year in which October 1 is a Saturday or a Sunday, except as described in section 
3.01(2) of these rules, the pupil enrollment count date is the Monday following that 
Saturday or Sunday.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-39 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
7 
3.01(2) In any year in which a day of a Major Religious Holiday occurs upon October 1, or, in 
years in which October 1 falls on a Saturday or Sunday, as described in section 3.01(a) 
of these rules, or upon the Monday directly following October 1, the pupil enrollment 
count day is the first week day immediately following the conclusion of the holiday. 
3.02 
A district shall use the pupil enrollment count date unless an alternative count date is approved by 
the Department. 
3.03 
The Department may accept amended pupil enrollment count date pupil data, with appropriate 
supporting documentation, as provided by a district, unless the pupil enrollment count date pupil 
data has been audited by the Department. 
3.04 
In no instance shall a district solicit pupils from other districts for the sole purpose of attendance 
for the applicable pupil enrollment count date   . 
3.05 
In no instance shall a district solicit pupils from the home school population solely for purposes of 
attendance for the applicable pupil enrollment count date   . 
4. 
Alternative Count Date 
4.01 
As needed, a district may submit to the Department a proposal for an alternative count date or 
dates. The Department may approve the establishment of district or school alternative count 
date(s) as appropriate prior to a district's proposed alternative count date(s). Such alternative 
count date(s) shall be set not more than forty-five (45) school days after the first school day of the 
applicable school year. 
4.02 
The count on the alternative count date will be conducted in the same manner as the count on the 
pupil enrollment count date. 
4.03 
The Department may accept amended alternative count date pupil data, with appropriate 
supporting documentation, as provided by a district, unless the alternative count date pupil data 
has been audited by the Department. 
5. 
Determination of Membership and Funded Pupil Count Enrollment 
5.01 
A district's pupil membership and funded pupil count shall include only pupils enrolled in the 
district and in attendance in the district or educational program with which the district has 
contracted to provide instructional services. 
5.01(1) No pupil shall be counted in a district’s funded pupil count more than one full-time 
equivalent. A pupil in membership in two or more districts or in two or more eligible 
educational entities shall not be counted in the state’s funded pupil count more than one 
full-time equivalent in total. 
5.01(2) A pupil included in a district's full-time membership shall equal one full-time equivalent 
(1.0) for purposes of the district’s funded pupil count, and a pupil included in a district's 
part-time membership shall equal one-half of one full-time equivalent (0.5) for purposes 
of the district’s funded pupil count. 
5.01(3) Following the November 10 data submission (as described in 2.02(1) of this section), 
pupils counted in membership by multiple districts, such that the pupil exceeds one full-
time equivalent in the state’s funded pupil count will be included in the state’s duplicate 
count process as determined by the Department. During the duplicate count process, the 
Department will evaluate appropriate documentation submitted by each district to 
determine which district may include the pupil in membership.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-39 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
8 
5.01(4) A district may only enroll pupils in a school authorized to serve the grades in which the 
pupils will be enrolled. Authorized to serve means the grades were included in the 
contract with the authorizer (if applicable) and the school has a school code that reflects 
the relevant grades. 
5.02 
A pupil shall be “enrolled” during the school year if such pupil attends a public school, or 
educational program with which the district has contracted to provide instructional services, at any 
time on or prior to the applicable count date. 
5.02(1) Enrollment must be evidenced by the receiving district with official registration, entry date 
of pupil, and official individual class schedule dated on or before the applicable count 
date, as well as the date the pupil first attended on or before the applicable count date. 
5.02(2) A district shall record withdrawals and transfers as of the last date of attendance prior to 
the date the pupil or the pupil’s parent or guardian gives oral or written notification of the 
withdrawal or transfer. 
5.03 
A pupil shall be in “attendance” if one or more of the following apply. 
5.03(1) The pupil is in attendance for all or any portion of the applicable count date. 
5.03(1)(a) 
For pupils exclusively enrolled in alternative teacher-pupil instruction (as 
defined in these rules), the district must provide attendance verification based 
upon direct teacher-pupil interaction or evidence of student engagement with 
course content. The Department will outline additional details in the Student 
October Count Audit Resource Guide. Districts may obtain pre-approval from the 
Department to include other forms of attendance verification. 
5.03(2) The pupil is not in attendance on the applicable count date, for any reason but has been 
in attendance with the reporting district at some time prior to the applicable count date 
during the current school year, has not withdrawn or transferred from the district, and has 
resumed attendance within 30 calendar days after the applicable count date. 
5.03(2)(a) 
A pupil who is not in attendance on the applicable count date or within 30 
days following the applicable count date, but has established attendance prior to 
the applicable count date, may be considered in attendance if the student is 
identified as truant and the district has taken legal action as outlined in Article 33 
of Title 22, C.R.S., to compel the pupil’s attendance. A district shall document 
that it has notified the pupil’s parent or guardian of its request for action by the 
court or of its directive to its attorney to file a request with the court. A district 
shall also document that it has made such a request of the court within 10 school 
days of the applicable count date. Nothing in this section 5.03(2)(a) modifies the 
rules for counting dropouts or attendance under 1 CCR 301-1 and 1 CCR 301- 
78. 
5.03(2)(b) 
A pupil that has established attendance within the school year prior to 
the applicable count date, is expelled, and, within 30 calendar days following the 
applicable count date, (1) resumes attendance, (2) begins receiving educational 
services under an Individual Educational Plan (IEP), or (3) begins receiving 
educational services under Section 22-33-203(2)(c), C.R.S., is enrolled and in 
attendance for purpose of these Rules.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-39 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
9 
5.03(2)(c) 
A pupil that has established attendance within the school year prior to 
the applicable count date, begins receiving home-bound services, and, within 30 
calendar days following the applicable count date, (1) resumes attendance or (2) 
begins receiving educational services under an Individual Educational Plan (IEP) 
is enrolled and in attendance for purpose of these Rules. 
5.04 
A district shall count a pupil in full-time funded pupil count, if (1) the pupil is enrolled and in 
attendance as of the applicable count day pursuant to these Rules, and (2) the pupil has a 
schedule that provides at least 360 hours of Instructional Time (as defined in these Rules) in the 
semester of the applicable count date. 
5.04(1) A pupil receiving services under an IEP which states the pupil is unable to benefit from a 
full-time program of services and explicitly describes how the pupil’s disability affects their 
involvement, progress, and participation in appropriate activities such that the student 
would not be able to meet the full-time scheduling requirement, shall be deemed to meet 
the requirements of this section 5.05. 
5.04 (2) A pupil who completes one school year of enrollment in a half-day kindergarten 
educational program and does not advance to first grade, pursuant to Section 22-7-1207, 
C.R.S., is counted as a full-day pupil for the second year in which the pupil is enrolled in 
the half-day kindergarten educational program. 
5.05 
A district shall count a pupil in part-time funded pupil count, if (1) the pupil is enrolled and in 
attendance as of the applicable count day pursuant to these Rules, and (2) the pupil has a 
schedule that provides at least 90 hours but less than 360 hours of Instructional Time (as defined 
in these Rules) in the semester of the applicable count date. 
5.05(1) Unless a pupil is reported by the district as being in kindergarten, receiving services 
under an IEP, identified by the Department as being in their fifth year of high school or 
beyond, or identified as participating in High School Equivalency Diploma program, or 
identified as a home-based education student receiving educational services by the 
district, a district shall obtain documentation which describes the reasons the pupil is 
enrolled part-time and confirms how the pupil is compliant with the Compulsory school 
attendance requirements of Section 22-33-104, C.R.S. 
5.05(2) A district may include home school pupils enrolled and attending a district educational 
program who meet the requirements of these Rules. A home school pupil is not eligible to 
be counted for more than a part-time funded pupil count (0.5 FTE). 
5.05(3) A district may include private school pupils enrolled and attending a district educational 
program who meet the requirements of these Rules. A private school pupil is not eligible 
to be counted for more than a part-time funded pupil count (0.5 FTE). 
5.06 
For purposes of applying sections 5.03(2)(c), 5.03(2)(d), 5.05, and 5.06 of these Rules, the 
district shall utilize the pupil’s home-bound or expelled schedule if the student has been receiving 
home-bound or expelled services since the start of the school year, or the pupil’s schedule that 
was in place prior to beginning home-bound or expelled services if the pupil established 
attendance using that schedule during the current school year. 
5.07 
For pupils exclusively enrolled in alternative teacher-pupil instruction or any pupil that has a 
schedule that does not require the pupil’s regular physical presence at a   public school, program 
or contracted service provider at a location in Colorado, the district must verify and document 
student residency in the State of Colorado upon enrollment and annually thereafter.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-39 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
10 
5.08 
Pupils exclusively enrolled in online K-12 courses that take place off-site, but are not enrolled in 
an online school, must be enrolled in an online program. A student is not exclusively enrolled in 
online K-12 courses if they have at least one course scheduled to take place on-site, in-person, at 
a regularly scheduled time during regular school hours and where attendance is mandatory. 
5.08 (1) Exception: Home-bound pupils, including expelled and incarcerated pupils, as defined in 
section 1.09 of these rules, do not need to be enrolled in an online program. 
5.9 
For pupils enrolled in and attending post-secondary courses: 
5.09(1) A pupil may meet the attendance requirements of sections 5.03 and 5.04 by attending 
either the district school or the institution of higher education. A district shall document 
the attendance as of the applicable count date of all pupils included in its pupil 
membership who are enrolled in secondary courses and shall provide evidence of tuition 
payment for courses at institutions of higher learning. 
5.09(2) Pupils enrolled only in courses offered by an institution of higher education may be 
counted in full-time funded pupil count if the number of semester credit hours for the 
courses in which the pupil is enrolled on the applicable count date is equivalent to a full-
time pupil credit load as defined for the institution of higher education, or is equal to at 
least twelve semester credit hours. 
5.09(3) Pupils enrolled only in courses offered by an institution of higher education may be 
counted in part-time funded pupil count if the number of semester credit hours for the 
courses in which the pupil is enrolled on the applicable count date is less than a full-time 
pupil credit load as defined for the institution of higher education or is less than twelve 
semester credit hours, but is at least three semester credit hours. 
5.09(4) Pupils enrolled in both courses offered by the district and courses offered by an institution 
of higher education may be counted in full-time funded pupil count if the sum of the 
instructional hours in the district’s educational program is at least 90 hours and the credit 
hours for the institution of higher education’s courses is at least 3 semester credit hours. 
5.09(5) If a pupil is enrolled in classes through the district only, sections 5.05 and 5.06 of these 
Rules apply. 
5.09 (6) A district shall keep at its central district office a record of pupils included in its pupil 
membership who are enrolled at institutions of higher learning as of the applicable count 
date, as well as a record of the class schedules of such pupils. 
5.10 
A district’s pupil enrollment shall be the membership of the district as of the applicable count date 
and any adjustments for the following as applicable. 
5.10(1) A pupil enrolled in a public school and receiving education services from another entity 
through a purchase agreement may be included in the district’s enrollment. The district 
shall ensure that the educational service provider maintains documentation sufficient to 
demonstrate compliance with these rules. The district shall be prepared to provide the 
contract and evidence of payment for the entire cost of services used to determine 
funding eligibility. The district shall also be prepared to provide documentation from the 
educational provider that evidences funding criteria have been met, including, at 
minimum, the provider calendar, provider bell schedule, student attendance, student 
schedules, and the Department’s annual statutory compliance assurances.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-39 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
11 
5.10(1)(a) 
Districts must ensure contractual education is of comparable quality and 
meet the same requirements and standards that would apply if performed by the 
school district as required by Section 22-32-122(3)(a), C.R.S. 
5.10 (2) A pupil receiving services from a district under Section 22-32-141, C.R.S., on the 
applicable count date may be included in the district’s pupil enrollment. Pupils receiving 
services from a district under Section 22-32-141, C.R.S., who has established attendance 
within any Colorado public school district during the current school year prior to the 
applicable count date and resume attendance within 30 days after the applicable count 
date may be included in the district’s pupil enrollment if the pupil is not included in any 
other district’s pupil enrollment. 
5.11 
In the event a pupil meets the funding criteria at multiple districts, the Department will determine 
which district is eligible for funding. The following duplicate count process criteria will be 
considered in determining which district is eligible to submit the pupil for funding: 
5.11(1) If one district is using the pupil enrollment count date and another is using an approved 
alternative count date, the district using the pupil enrollment count date is eligible to 
submit the pupil for funding. 
5.11 (2) If a pupil transfers on the pupil enrollment count date and meets the funding requirements 
at multiple districts on the pupil enrollment count date, the receiving district is eligible to 
submit the pupil for funding. 
5.11 (3) If a pupil transfers between two districts with approved alternative count dates and meets 
the funding requirements at both districts on their respective approved alternative count 
dates, the receiving district is eligible to include the pupil for funding. 
5.11 (4) If a pupil is enrolled part-time at two Colorado public schools (and is not a home-school 
or private school pupil), both reporting districts may be eligible to submit the pupil for a 
maximum of part-time funding, pending a review of documentation to confirm the pupil’s 
eligibility. 
5.11 (5) If a home-school or private school pupil is simultaneously enrolled and receiving 
educational services at two different districts, and the pupil meets the part-time funding 
criteria at both, the district of primary residence is allowed to submit the pupil for funding. 
5.12 
A pupil in a short-term detention center on the applicable pupil enrollment count date may be 
included in a district’s pupil membership if they meet the following criteria: 
5.12 (1) The pupil was in attendance in the month preceding the count date, has not withdrawn 
from the district of residence, and the resident district received notification from the 
district in which the detention center is located verifying the pupil was in the detention 
center as of the pupil enrollment count day. 
5.12 (2) Students not in attendance in the month preceding the count date are eligible to be 
counted if the district of residence is also the district where the detention center is 
located. The district must enroll and establish a schedule with intent to have the pupil 
attend district schools after release from the detention center. 
5.12 (3) The district where the detention center is located (district of attendance) may count a 
pupil that is not eligible to be counted by the district of residence. The district of 
attendance must receive written verification from the district of residence stating that the 
pupil was not eligible to be counted by the district of residence. The district of attendance 
must provide the educational program at the detention center.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-39 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
12 
5.12 (4) Pupils in detention centers are not considered facility placed students. 
5.13 
A pupil for whom a district either pays or receives any amount of tuition may be included in a 
district’s pupil membership as follows: 
5.13 (1) A pupil for whom a district receives maximum tuition shall be included only in the pupil 
enrollment of the district which agrees to pay the tuition. In the event an individual and 
not a school district is to pay the tuition, no district shall include the pupil in its pupil 
enrollment. 
6. 
At-Risk Pupils, English Language Learners, Special Education Pupils 
6.01 
Pursuant to Section 22-54-103(1.5)(d), C.R.S., funding eligible pupils must be identified by a 
district as eligible for free or reduced-priced lunch as of the applicable count date in order to be 
included in the district’s at-risk count. 
6.02 
When determining a pupil's eligibility for free or reduced-priced lunch, a district may use a Direct 
Certification list, Application for Free or Reduced-Price Meals, Family Economic Data Survey 
form, combination form, or categorical eligibility determination list. All qualifying documentation 
and records shall be retained by the applicable district office. 
6.02(1) Documentation evidencing a pupil's eligibility status shall be for the school year of the 
applicable count date. 
6.02(2) Absent the current year documentation evidencing any lunch eligibility status, a district 
may submit the pupil's prior year documentation, which shall be valid evidence through 
the applicable count date of the current year. 
6.02(3) A copy of the direct certification listing as of the applicable count date which includes the 
pupil’s name. 
6.02(4) For a district with a school or schools operating under a federal Special Assistance 
Certification and Reimbursement Alternative, documentation must include evidence of 
the pupil’s inclusion on the district’s base year count and further evidence that such pupil 
remains included in a Special Assistance Certification and Reimbursement Alternative 
site within the district’s pupil enrollment. This method shall not be available if a district 
alters the boundaries of the participating schools. 
6.03 
Pursuant to Section 22-54-103(6.5)(a), C.R.S., funding eligible pupils are considered English 
Language Learners if they are reported with a Language Proficiency of Non-English Proficient or 
Limited-English Proficient as of the applicable count date and are within the five-year services 
window defined in English Language Proficiency Act (ELPA). 
6.03(1) Districts must follow the state's standardized identification and redesignation procedures 
to identify and redesignate English Language Learners and retain documentation 
showing these procedures have been followed. 
6.04 
Consistent with section 22-54-103(10.8), C.R.S., a funding eligible pupil in the Student October 
Pupil Enrollment data collection is considered a Special Education Pupil if they are a child with a 
disability as defined in section 22-20-103(5), C.R.S. as of the applicable count date. Under 
section 22-10-103(5), C.R.S., a child with a disability who, by reason of the conditions listed in 
section 22-20-103(5)(a)(I), C.R.S. is unable to receive reasonable benefit from general education. 
Special Education Pupils can be identified by a district through one of the following: 
6.04(1) a current Individualized Education Program (IEP), or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-39 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
13 
6.04(2) a current determination of eligibility form dated within three years of the applicable count 
date. 
7. 
Cost of Living Factor -- Newly Organized Districts 
7.01 
Except in the event of a deconsolidation as described in Section 22-30-102(2)(a), C.R.S., 
resulting in a newly organized district, the Department shall assign a cost-of-living factor for 
purposes of the Public School Finance Act of 1994 to a new district organized pursuant to Article 
30 of Title 22, C.R.S. 
7.02 
In determining a cost-of-living factor to assign, the Department shall review materials used in the 
most recent cost of living analysis conducted by the staff of the legislative council for those 
districts affected by the reorganization. The Department shall also consult with representatives of 
the affected school districts and with other parties as necessary. Such cost–of-living factor shall 
be valid until the staff of the legislative council certifies a cost-of-living factor for such district 
pursuant to Section 22-54-104(5), C.R.S. 
7.03 
In the event of a consolidation of existing districts and a cost-of-living factor assigned by the 
Department which is less than the cost-of-living factor previously applicable to the district prior to 
consolidation, the Department’s assignment shall be attributable to matters other than the mere 
consolidation of the districts. 
7.04 
The Department shall assign such cost-of-living factor at least 30 days prior to the start of the 
newly organized district’s budget year and shall certify such factor to the district in writing. 
8. 
Department Audits of Districts 
8.01 
The Department shall perform audits of pupil enrollment count data to ensure the accuracy of the 
information used to determine funding. 
8.02 
Each district shall retain complete documentation supporting any certification made to the 
Department or any other data given to the Department for purposes of administering the Public 
School Finance Act of 1994 until audited by the Department or until five years from the 
certification due date whichever comes first. The Department encourages a district to retain all 
required documentation in a central location. 
8.03 
In addition to satisfying section 8.02 of these rules for its own pupils (if any), a BOCES providing 
services on behalf of a district, charter school, or BOCES shall ensure that its documentation is 
sufficient to allow such district, charter school, or BOCES to meet the requirement in section 8.02. 
8.04 
If the Department determines that a district has received payment of funds greater than the 
amount to which the district or approved facility school is entitled, the district shall be responsible 
for repayment to the Department. 
8.04(1) Audit repayments shall be assessed interest as provided in Section 22-2-113(1)(g), 
C.R.S. 
8.04(2) A district that refuses to pay a determined repayment amount may have its current and 
future payments or reimbursements withheld until the full amount of the repayment, plus 
applicable interest, is recovered. 
8.05 
If the Department determines that a district has not received full payment of funds to which it is 
entitled, the Department shall be responsible for payment to the district or eligible facility within 45 
days following the date the final audit report is issued.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-39 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
14 
8.06 
A district or an eligible facility may appeal any audit finding in writing to the Commissioner within 
30 calendar days following the date the final audit report is issued. The Commissioner shall rule 
within 30 calendar days of receipt of a written appeal. The ruling shall be in writing and shall 
either uphold, modify, or overturn the appealed audit finding(s). The Commissioner’s ruling shall 
be final, and no additional administrative appeals shall be provided. 
9. State Average Per Pupil Revenues 
9.01 
The Department shall certify the state average per pupil revenues pursuant to Section 22-54-103, 
C.R.S., by June 15 next preceding the fiscal year. The certified figure may be subject to minor 
correction and audit changes; agreements between districts and other entities to pay the state 
average need not be adjusted to the revised figure. 
10. 
Buyout of Categorical Programs 
10.01 
The Department shall certify to those districts required to levy additional mills pursuant to Section 
22-54-107, C.R.S., the amount of categorical program funding which is subject to buyout 
requirements. 
10.02 
The Department shall use the best available data, including estimated amounts if actual figures 
are unknown. 
11. 
Timely Payment of School District Obligations 
11.01 
If a district has bonds or other obligations described in Section 22-41-110, C.R.S., and does not 
have adequate funds to pay principal and interest payments due, such district shall notify the 
Department in writing of its inability to pay no later than 20 calendar days prior to the payment 
due date. 
12. 
Authorization of Additional Local Revenues 
12.01 
If a district holds an election pursuant to Article X, Section 20 of the State Constitution, Section 
22-40-102, C.R.S., Section 22-42-102, C.R.S., or Sections 22-54-107.5 through -108.7, C.R.S., 
the president of the local board of education of the district or a designee shall provide to the 
Department no later than ten business days after the election: (1) a copy of the official ballot 
question language as certified to the county clerk for a coordinated election or a copy of the 
official ballot marked with the word “sample;” and (2) the number of votes cast for the question 
and the number of votes cast against the question. 
12.02 
When a local board of education decides not to raise any or all of the amount approved at an 
election pursuant to Section 22-54-108, C.R.S., the amount approved shall not be reduced and 
shall be available for the local board to include in determining the general fund levy in any future 
fiscal years. 
13. 
Pupils In State Programs 
13.01 
“State program” has the same definition as the term is defined in Section 22-54-129(1)(f), C.R.S. 
13.02 
For purposes of this section, “pupil” means a child or youth who has attained three years of age 
on or before August 1 and who is under twenty-one years of age, as defined in Section 22-2- 
402(7), C.R.S. When a pupil reaches age 21, a state program may include such pupil in its 
monthly report of pupils served and in its calculation of full-time equivalent membership only 
through the end of the semester in which the pupil reaches age 21.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-39 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
15 
13.03 
State programs shall provide to the Department a pupil enrollment count pursuant to these rules 
on or before October 5 of each budget year. The mental health institute at Pueblo or Fort Logan 
shall count only pupils for whom the institute has responsibility because of a court order or other 
action by a public entity in Colorado (as defined in Section 22-2-402(4.5), C.R.S.). 
13.04 
On or before the fifteenth day of each month, a state program shall report to the Department the 
actual number of pupils who received educational services during the prior calendar month and 
the corresponding number of full-time equivalent pupils to which the state program provided such 
services. 
13.04(1) 
The mental health institute at Pueblo or Fort Logan shall count only pupils for 
whom the institute has responsibility because of a court order or other action by a public 
entity in Colorado, as defined in Section 22-2-402(4.5), C.R.S. 
13.04(2) 
Full-time equivalent membership is determined as follows: Total instructional 
days in membership divided by total instructional calendar days in reporting period equals 
full-time equivalent membership. 
13.04(3) 
The first day of attendance following a pupil’s enrollment in the educational 
program establishes the first day of the pupil’s full-time equivalent membership in an 
educational program. 
13.04(4) 
Membership in an educational program continues until the pupil withdraws and 
the pupil’s name no longer appears on the roster of the state program, or until terminated 
automatically after five consecutive unexcused absences. 
13.04(5) 
A state program may include in its full-time equivalent membership: (1) up to ten 
days of excused absences for a pupil; and (2) up to five days of unexcused absence. 
13.04(6) 
A state program shall retain documentation of pupil names (first, middle, last); 
date of birth; parent/guardian resident address; district of residence; state assigned 
student identification number (SASID); dates of admission and discharge; schedules; and 
records of attendance, until audited by the Department or until five years from the date 
the state department submits its monthly reports to the Department, whichever is earlier. 
13.05 
For each full-time equivalent membership reported, a state program shall receive a monthly 
payment reflecting a daily rate of statewide base per pupil funding, divided by 176, times 1.4. A 
state program may claim no more than 235 days of funding per calendar year (amounting to no 
more than 1.73 times statewide base per pupil funding) for any one pupil. Funding may be 
prorated under Section 22-22-54-129(4)(c), C.R.S., based on available appropriations. 
14. 
Pupils In Approved Facility Schools 
14.01 
“Approved facility school” has the same meaning as the term is defined in section 22-54- 
129(1)(a), C.R.S. 
14.02 
For purposes of this section, “pupil” means a child or youth who has attained three years of age 
on or before August 1 and who is under twenty-one years of age, as defined in Section 22-2- 
402(7), C.R.S. When a pupil reaches age 21, an approved facility school may include such pupil 
in its monthly report of pupils served and in its calculation of full-time equivalent membership only 
through the end of the semester in which the pupil reaches age 21. 
14.03 
“Baseline funding” means a funding amount based on student enrollment projections that is 
intended to provide sufficient funding for minimum education program services for an approved 
facility school.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-39 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
16 
14.04 
“Public entity” means a public entity responsible for referring students to or placing students in 
out-of-home, day treatment, residential treatment, hospital, and specialized day school 
placements with providers. 
14.05 
The Department shall utilize monthly enrollment counts and point-in-time enrollment counts to 
determine the student count number used to calculate the baseline funding amount annually for 
each approved facility school. 
14.06 
On or before the fifteenth day of each month, an approved facility school shall report to the 
Department the actual number of pupils enrolled to receive educational services during the prior 
calendar month and the corresponding number of full-time equivalent pupils to which the 
approved facility school provided such services. 
14.06(1) 
Approved facility schools shall only use student enrollment numbers for those 
students who are residents of Colorado and are: 
14.06(1)(a) 
placed by a court order, 
14.06(1)(b) 
referred or placed by a public entity, including but not limited to school 
districts, departments of human services, Department of Youth Services (DYS); 
14.06(1)(c) 
patients of a hospital; or 
14.06(1)(d) 
a homeless child as defined in Section 22-1-102.5, C.R.S. 
14.06(2) 
Full-time equivalent membership is determined as follows: Total instructional 
days in membership divided by total instructional calendar days in reporting period equals 
full-time equivalent membership. 
14.06(3) 
The first day of attendance following a pupil’s enrollment in the educational 
program establishes the first day of the pupil’s full-time equivalent membership in an 
educational program. 
14.06(4) 
Membership in an educational program continues until the pupil withdraws and 
the pupil’s name no longer appears on the roster of the approved facility school, or until 
terminated automatically after five consecutive unexcused absences. 
14.06(5) 
An approved facility school may include in its full-time equivalent membership: 
(1) up to ten days of excused absences for a pupil; and (2) up to five days of unexcused 
absence. 
14.06(6) 
An approved facility school shall retain documentation of pupil names (first, 
middle, last); date of birth; parent/guardian resident address; district of residence; state 
assigned student identification number (SASID); whether the pupil was placed in the 
facility as defined in Section 22-2-402(4) and (4.5), C.R.S.; dates of admission and 
discharge; schedules; and records of attendance, until audited by the Department or until 
five years from the date it submits its monthly reports to the Department, whichever is 
earlier.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-39 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
17 
14.07 
Approved facility schools shall receive payments monthly, including applicable prorations, 
pursuant to section 22-54-129(2.5), C.R.S. An approved facility school shall receive one twelfth of 
the total baseline funding amount on the 15th of each month. The baseline funding amount shall 
include the offset amount for the special education rate and hospital offset amount. The baseline 
funding formula shall be adjusted annually based on inflation, determined by the department. The 
department shall publicly post and distribute a schedule of student enrollment thresholds and 
associated decreases, as required by Section 22-54-129(2.5)(e)(I)(C), C.R.S., by July 1st each 
year. Funding may be prorated under Section 22-22-54-129(2.5)(f), C.R.S., based on available 
appropriations. 
15. 
Census Block Data Collection 
15.01 
The Department of Education shall suspend the collection of data pursuant to section 22-54-
104.6(1.5), C.R.S., if the Department determines that the data indicates that the student 
population identified through the census block data collection is substantially similar to the at-risk 
student population identified through Rule 6.01 and 6.02. 
15.01(1) The Department shall consider census block data collection rates and administrative 
burden when making the determination whether to suspend the data collection. 
15.02 
The Department of Education shall re-start the census block data collection after suspension of 
this data collection if the Department determines the at-risk student population identified through 
Rule 6.01 and 6.02 no longer provides a reasonable measure for identifying students who are at-
risk of below-average academic performance because of socioeconomic disadvantages or 
poverty. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Section 2254-R-5.00 eff. 05/10/2007. 
Entire rule eff. 09/30/2007. 
Sections 2254-R-1.00, 14.00 – 20.00 emer. rule eff. 09/11/2008. 
Sections 2254-R-1.00; 14.00 – 20.00 eff. 11/30/2008. 
Sections SB&P, 2254-R-14.00 through 19.00 emer. rule eff. 06/10/2009; expired 09/10/2009. Section 
2254-R-20.00 emer. rule repealed eff. 06/10/2009; expired 09/10/2009. 
Sections SB&P, 2254-R-2.00, 2254-R-14.00 through 19.00 eff. 09/30/2009. Section 2254-R-20.00 
repealed eff. 09/30/2009. 
Entire rule emer. rule eff. 07/30/2012; expired 10/10/2012. 
Entire rule eff. 12/30/2012. 
Entire rule eff. 10/30/2020. 
Entire rule eff. 05/15/2024. 
Entire rule eff. 10/30/2025. 
Annotations 
Rule 2254-R-5.19(3) (adopted 08/08/2007) was not extended by Senate Bill 08-075 and therefore expired 
05/15/2008. 
Rules 2254-R-14.01(1), 14.03, 14.04, 14.06, 14.07(3), 14.07(5), 14.08, 16.01(1), 16.01(1.01), 
16.01(1.02), 16.02, 16.02(1), 17.02, 19.01(2), 20.00 (adopted 10/01/2008) were not extended by 
House Bill 09-1292 and therefore expired 05/15/2009.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-39 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
18 
Rules 3.04, 5.04, 5.12(6) (adopted 03/14/2024) were not extended by Senate Bill 25-125 and therefore 
expired 05/15/2025.
