---
id: "1_CCR_301-82"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1 CCR 301-82"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=5013&fileName=1%20CCR%20301-82&type=pdf"
---

#### 1_CCR_301-82. 1 CCR 301-82

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
Colorado State Board of Education 
RULES FOR THE AUTHORIZATION OF CHARTER SCHOOLS AND CHARTER SCHOOL 
COLLABORATIVES AS SCHOOL FOOD AUTHORITIES 
1 CCR 301-82 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
1.0  Statement of Basis and Purpose 
The statutory basis for these rules is found in sections  §22-2-107(1)(c), § 22-2-108,  §22-30.5-502 (10.5),  
§ 22-30.5-505(14),  § 22-32-120, 22-30.5-603, 42 U.S.C., 1751 et seq. 42 U.S.C., 1771 et seq. 
Pursuant to these statutes, the State Board of Education shall promulgate rules to achieve the following 
purposes, including but not limited to: 
(a)  Establishing a timeline and processes by which a district charter school, charter school collaborative 
or an institute charter school may apply for authorization as a school food authority; and 
(b)  Establishing a timeline, standards, and procedures to use in granting or denying authorization as a 
School Food Authority to a district charter school, charter school collaborative or institute charter 
school. 
2.0  Definitions 
2.01  "Applicant" means a district charter school, charter school collaborative or an institute charter 
school. 
2.02  "Charter School Collaborative" means two or more charter schools that contract with one another to 
form a charter school collaborative that is a legal entity separate from each of the contracting 
charter school and is authorized to provide any function, service or facility that is lawfully 
authorized for each of the contracting charter schools, pursuant to  §22-30.5-603. 
2.03  "Charter School Collaborative School Food Authority" means a Charter School Collaborative as 
defined above operating as a School Food Authority pursuant to  §22-30.5-603 (3.5). 
2.04  "Charter School Food Authority" means a district charter school or an institute charter school that: (i) 
the commissioner or his or her designee provisionally authorizes as a School Food Authority 
pursuant to section  § 22-32-120(6) or (ii) the Department authorizes as a School Food Authority 
pursuant to section  § 22-32-120(5). 
2.05  "Child Nutrition Programs" (CNP) means the Programs a School Food Authority may participate in 
that includes but is not limited to: the National School Lunch Program(7CFR-210) (NSLP), School 
Breakfast Program (7CFR-220) (SBP), Afterschool Care Snack Program (7 CFR 210.10) (ACSP), 
Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program (7 CFR 211 & 235) (FFVP), Special Milk Program (7CFR-
215) (SMP), Summer Food Service Program (7CFR 225) (SFSP) 
2.06  "Department" means the Colorado Department of Education created and existing pursuant to  §24-
1-115, C.R.S. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
2 
2.07  "FNS" means the Food and Nutrition Service, United States Department of Agriculture. 
2.08  "Food Service Management Company" (FSMC) means a commercial enterprise or a nonprofit 
organization which is or may be contracted with by the school food authority to manage any 
aspect of the school food service and that meets all state and federal requirements. 
2.09  "Office of School Nutrition"(OSN) means the Department office responsible for the administration of 
all the Programs in Colorado. This includes review, monitoring, and training of SFAs. 
2.10  "Program" or "Programs" means any one or more of the Child Nutrition Programs administered by 
the Department. 
2.11  "Public School" means a school that received a majority of its funding from moneys raised by a 
general state, county, or district tax and whose property is owned and operated by a political 
subdivision of the state. 
2.12  "School Food Authority" means the governing body which is responsible for the administration of 
one or more schools, and has the legal authority to operate the Program therein or be otherwise 
approved by FNS to operate the Program, including but not limited to a Charter School Food 
Authority or a Charter School Collaborative School Food Authority. 
2.13  "State Board" means the State Board of Education created pursuant to Section 1 of Article IX of the 
State Constitution. 
3.0  Procedures for Authorization as a School Food Authority 
3.01  The application, documentation, and other necessary information must be submitted on forms to be 
provided or approved by the Department on or before the established deadline for review. 3.02 
Application Requirements 
3.02.1  A description of the scope and nature of the proposed food service operation including the 
number of sites and estimated number of students to be served. 
3.02.2  A business plan to include: 
3.02.2.1  Program Budget: A budget which includes projected revenues and 
expenditures. Revenues are to include, but are not limited to: student payments, 
adult payments, federal reimbursement, state reimbursement, and other 
revenues. 
Expenditures are to include, but are not limited to: food and milk, salaries and 
benefits, purchased services, other supplies and materials, equipment, and 
depreciation 
3.02.2.2  Staffing: The number of employees planned to operate and administer the 
operation of the particular Program or Programs, detailing positions and hours by 
employee type. Staffing requirements may vary depending on the Program(s), 
number of students served , food production method and administrative duties. 
3.02.2.3  Facilities: A description of facility type and equipment, including but not limited 
to an evaluation, assessment, and description of equipment and facility layout:

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
3 
(a)  Full Preparation Kitchen: All food is stored, prepared and served on-site. The 
facility has preparation equipment, i.e., convection ovens, steamers, 
warmers, steam table, refrigeration. Food service staff prepares and 
serves meals. 
(b)  Heat and Serve Only: Limited preparation and production required. Majority 
of items are commercially prepared items. 
(c)  Serve Only: All food is prepared and delivered into the school by an outside 
food service company/catering company; the school has no capacity to 
heat and serve meals. Hot and cold holding equipment is required. 
3.02.2.4  Types of Meal Service (delivery): Specification of the type of meal service that 
will be provided for the operation, including the estimated number of sites and 
students to be served. The types of meal service can include: 
(a)  Self-preparation/on-site meal preparation: Preparation of meals by the SFA 
at the school’s site. 
(b)  Vended: A vended meal contract with an FSMC for delivery of meals 
prepared off-site by the FSMC to the school site(s) for the Program(s). 
All vended meals must be obtained by a competitive purchase procedure 
that complies with federal and Department procurement requirements. 
All SFAs must utilize the Request for Proposal (RFP) and Contract 
prototypes and procedures as provided by the OSN and any necessary 
modifications shall be approved in advance by the OSN. All RFP 
documents must be approved by the OSN prior to release of the RFP 
and prior to the execution of the contract. 
(c)  Contracting with a Food Service Management Company: Contract with an 
FSMC to manage any aspect of the school food service for the 
Program(s), including meal preparation at the school site. SFAs must 
comply with all federal and state rules and regulations pertaining to 
FSMC contracts. All SFAs must utilize the (RFP) and Contract prototypes 
and procedures as provided by the OSN, and any necessary 
modifications shall be approved in advance by the OSN. All RFP 
documents must be approved by the OSN prior to release of the RFP 
and prior to the execution of the contract. 
3.02.2.5  Proposed timeline and plan for: 
(a)  Procurement of necessary equipment; 
(b)  Hiring and training personnel, including accommodations for attending all 
mandatory SFA training by the Department; 
(c)  Securing necessary food licenses and inspections; 
(d)  Establishing ordering, payment, and charging policies for school sites as well 
as method of communicating to parents about those procedures 
(e)  A system for issuance of meal benefits and updating eligibility of free and 
reduced price meals. 
(f)  Procuring vended meals or a full-service contract with an FSMC and

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
4 
(g)  Estimated start date for serving meals to students. 
3.02.2.6  Proposed infrastructure to service schools from other districts requesting to 
participate. The plan must include specific information on how the Charter School 
Food Authority or Charter School Collaborative School Food Authority will work 
with participating charter schools to providetraining and oversight. 
3.02.3  Charter SFA Applicants must include a statement from the Applicant of its willingness to 
contract, to the extent practicable, with other district charter schools and institute charter 
schools to provide a food service program. 
3.03  Review Procedures 
3.03.1  The Department shall review the submitted applications and requested business plans for 
Applicant charter schools and Charter School Collaboratives who have successfully 
submitted all necessary documentation. 
3.03.2  A business plan will be reviewed by the Department and meetings will be set up as 
needed for clarification and assistance in developing a program that complies with all 
CNP rules and regulations. 
3.03.3  Applications will be reviewed and approved based on the following criteria: 
3.03.3.1  The ability to operate a sound financial program based on past, present, and 
forecasted financial standing; 
3.03.3.2  The proposed SFA’s ability to serve a minimum of 200 students; 
3.03.3.3  The ability to comply with all USDA and state regulations and rules concerning 
participation in the applicable Program(s). The capacity to operate a particular 
Program including the basis of staffing, facilities, and management structure; and 
3.03.3.4  Willingness and capability to provide services to charter schools residing in 
other geographic areas in Colorado which may include schools in several school 
districts. 
3.04  Eligibility and Implementation 
3.04.1  A Charter SFA Applicant shall request in writing to its authorizing school district or the 
charter school institute to contract for food services under terms specified by the 
Applicant. 
3.04.2  A Charter SFA Applicant must first negotiate with the district board of education for food 
services. If the school district is unable to provide the requested service, then the school 
district board of education shall allow the district charter school to transfer the 
maintenance, supervision, and operation of the district charter school’s food-service 
facility from the district to a Charter School Food Authority. 
3.04.3.1  A Charter SFA Applicant shall submit to the Department a written authorization 
from the local board of education or superintendent releasing the applicant from 
the existing SFA. 
3.04.3.2  A Charter School Collaborative SFA Applicant will notify authorizers of all 
charter schools participating in the SFA or changes thereto by June 1 annually.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
5 
3.04.4  For Charter SFAs only, the Department shall not grant authorization as a Charter School 
Food Authority to more than ten Applicant charter SFAs until July 1, 2016. 
3.04.5  Application due date: February 15th of any year unless a specific extension is granted by 
the Department. 
3.04.6  Approved Applicants must complete all Department training necessary for Program 
implementation within 30 days prior to their approved Program start date. 
3.04.7  No later than April 1 of any year, the Department will grant or deny authorization to a 
charter school or Charter School Collaborative applying as a School Food Authority. If an 
extension is granted pursuant to 3.04.5 the authorization will be determined within 45 
days of the receipt of the application. 
3.04.8  Approved Charter School Collaborative SFAs must have an entity code assigned by the 
Department for claims processing and reporting requirements. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 01/30/2010. 
Entire rule eff. 01/14/2013.
