---
id: "1_CCR_301-79"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1 CCR 301-79"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=6916&fileName=1%20CCR%20301-79&type=pdf"
---

#### 1_CCR_301-79. 1 CCR 301-79

1 
COLORADO DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
Colorado State Board of Education 
RULES FOR THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE HEALTHY BEVERAGES POLICY 
1 CCR 301-79 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
1.0 
Statement of Basis and Purpose 
1.01 
The statutory basis for these rules is found in Section 22-32-134.5, C.R.S. and Section 
22-2-107(1)(c), C.R.S. 
1.02 
Pursuant to these statutes, the State Board of Education shall promulgate rules 
concerning public schools to achieve the following purposes, including but not limited to: 
1.02.1 Describing beverages that school districts and schools may permit to be sold to 
students; 
(a) 
Each beverage described shall satisfy minimum nutritional standards for 
beverages, which standards are science-based and established by a 
national organization; and 
1.02.2 Describing specific events occurring outside of the regular and extended school 
day at which a school district or school may permit other beverages other than 
those described above to be sold to students. 
2.0 
Definitions 
2.01 
“Public School” means a school that derives its support, in whole or in part, from moneys 
raised by a general state, county, or district tax and is not limited to those schools 
participating in the National School Lunch Program. 
2.02 
“Regular School Day” means the period from midnight the night before the first class 
period to 30 minutes after the end of the last class period. 
2.03 
“Extended School Day” means any time spent by students at school after the regular 
school day, including but not limited to participation in extracurricular activities or 
childcare programs. 
3.0 
District Beverage Policies 
3.01 
On or before the 2017-2018, school year each school district board of education and the 
state charter school institute shall adopt and implement a policy in accordance with 
Section 22-32-134.5 (1), C.R.S. and the rules herein. 
 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-79 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
2 
4.0 
Establishing of Healthy Beverage Standards for Public Schools During the Regular School 
Day and Extended School Day 
4.01 
The beverage policies adopted by district boards of education and the state of charter 
school institute pursuant to Section 3.0 may permit the sale of beverages to students on 
school grounds during both the regular and extended school day if those beverages meet 
the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA)’s current regulations for nutrition 
standards for beverages sold in schools. 
5.0 
Events Occurring Outside of the Regular and Extended School Day 
5.01 
The extended school day includes but is not limited to, before and after school activities 
such as clubs, year book, band, student government, drama, and childcare programs. 
5.02 
District boards of education and the state charter school institute may permit the sale of 
other beverages at school-related events where parents and other adults are invited 
attendees. Such activities include but are not limited to selling beverages as boosters at 
events such as interscholastic sporting events, school plays, and band concerts. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 01/30/2009. 
Entire rule eff. 11/14/2016.
