---
id: "1_CCR_303-1"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1 CCR 303-1"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=9341&fileName=1%20CCR%20303-1&type=pdf"
---

#### 1_CCR_303-1. 1 CCR 303-1

1 
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
Division of Public School Capital Construction Assistance 
PUBLIC SCHOOL FACILITY CONSTRUCTION GUIDELINES 
1 CCR 303-1 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Article 1 - Purpose and Authority to Promulgate Rules 
1.1. 
Purpose 
1.1.1. 
Section 22-43.7-107(1)(a), C.R.S. states, The board shall establish public school facility 
construction guidelines for use by the board in assessing and prioritizing public school 
capital construction needs throughout the state as required by section 22-43.7-108, 
C.R.S. reviewing applications for financial assistance, and making recommendations to 
the state board regarding appropriate allocation of awards of financial assistance from 
the assistance fund only to applicants. The board shall establish the guidelines in rules 
promulgated in accordance with article 4 of title 24, C.R.S. 
1.1.2. 
Section 22-43.7-107(1)(b), C.R.S. states, It is the intent of the general assembly that the 
Public School Facility Construction Guidelines established by the board be used only for 
the purposes specified in section 1.1.1 above. 
1.1.3. 
The Public School Facility Construction Guidelines shall identify and describe the capital 
construction, renovation, and equipment needs in public school facilities and means of 
addressing those needs that will provide educational and safety benefits at a reasonable 
cost. 
1.2. 
Statutory Authority 
1.2.1. 
Section 22-43.7-106(2)(i)(I) C.R.S. states, the board may promulgate rules in accordance 
with article 4 of title 24, C.R.S. The board is directed to establish Public School Facility 
Construction Guidelines in rule pursuant to 22-43.7-107(1)(a), C.R.S. 
Article 2 - Definitions 
2.1. 
The definitions provided in 22-43.7-103, C.R.S., shall apply to these rules. The following 
additional definitions shall also apply: 
“C.R.S.” means Colorado Revised Statutes. 
“ES” means Elementary School. 
“F.T.E.s” means Full Time Equivalent Students. 
“Gross Square Feet (GSF)” means the total area of the building (inclusive of all levels as 
applicable) of a building within the outside faces of the exterior walls, including all vertical 
circulation and other shaft (HVAC) areas connecting one floor to another. 
“Guidelines” means the Public School Facility Construction Guidelines. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 303-1 
Division of Public School Capital Construction Assistance 
 
2 
“Historical significance” means having importance in the history, architecture, archaeology, or 
culture of this state or any political subdivision thereof or of the United States, as determined by 
the state historical society. 
“HS” means High School. 
“K12” means Kindergarten through 12th Grade School that is under all one facility / campus. 
“MS” means Middle School. 
“SF” means Square Foot. 
“S.T.E.M.” means Science, Technology, Engineering, & Mathematics. 
Article 3 - Codes, Documents and Standards incorporated by reference 
3.1. 
The following materials are incorporated by reference within the Public School Facility 
Construction Guidelines: 
3.1.1. 
ASHRAE 90.1-2013 Energy Standard for Buildings Except Low-Rise Residential 
Buildings. 
3.1.2. 
ASHRAE Standard Benchmark Energy Utilization Index (October 2009). 
3.1.3. 
ASHRAE Standard 189.1 - 2011 Standard for the Design of High-Performance Green 
Buildings. 
3.1.4. 
ANSI/ASA S12.60-2010/ Part 1, Acoustical Performance Criteria, Design Requirements, 
and Guidelines for Schools, Part 1 Permanent Schools 
3.1.5. 
International Code Council’s International Plumbing Code (2015) amended by Rules and 
Regulations of the Colorado State Plumbing Board 3 CCR 720-1, 2016-4-1 
3.1.6. 
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 70: National Electrical Code (2014). 
3.1.7. 
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 13: Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler 
Systems, 2013 Edition 
3.1.8. 
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 72: National Fire Alarm and Signaling Code, 
2013 Edition. 
3.1.9. 
National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 80: Standard for Fire Doors and Other 
Opening Protectives, 2016 Edition 
3.1.10. ASHRAE Standard 62.1-2013 Ventilation for Acceptable Indoor Air Quality (2013). 
3.1.11. Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment which references Air Quality, 
Hazardous Waste, Public and environmental health, Radiation Control, Solid Waste and 
Water Quality. 
3.1.12. International Fire Code (IFC) – 2015 Edition, First Printing: May 2014 (Copyright 2014 by 
International Code Council, Inc. - Washington, D.C.), including Appendices B and C. 
3.1.13. International Mechanical Code - 2015 Edition, First Printing: May 2014 (Copyright 2014 
by International Code Council, Inc. - Washington, D.C.)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 303-1 
Division of Public School Capital Construction Assistance 
 
3 
3.1.14. International Energy Conservation Code (IECC) - 2015 Edition, First Printing: May 2014 
(Copyright 2014 by International Code Council, Inc. - Washington, D.C.) 
3.1.15. International Existing Building Code – 2015 Edition, First Printing: May 2014 (Copyright 
201 by International Code Council, Inc. - Washington, D.C.) 
3.1.16. All projects shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with the codes and 
regulations as currently adopted by the Colorado Division of Fire Prevention & Control 
which incorporates current building, fire, existing building, mechanical, and energy 
conservation codes. 
3.2. 
The Division shall maintain copies of the complete texts of the referenced incorporated materials, 
which are available for public inspection during regular business hours with copies available at a 
reasonable charge. Interested parties may inspect the referenced incorporated materials by 
contacting the Director of the Division of Public School Capital Construction Assistance, 1580 
Logan Street, Suite 310, Denver, Colorado 80203. 
3.3. 
This rule does not include later amendments or editions of the incorporated material. 
Article 4 - These Guidelines are not mandatory standards to be imposed on school districts, 
charter schools, institute charter schools, the boards of cooperative services or the 
Colorado School for the Deaf and Blind. As required by statute, the Guidelines address: 
4.1 
Health and safety issues, including security needs and all applicable health, safety and 
environmental codes and standards as required by state and federal law. Public school facility 
accessibility. 
4.1.1 
Sound building structures. Each building should be constructed and maintained with 
sound structural foundation, floor, wall and roof systems. 
4.1.1.1 - All building structures shall conform to all applicable codes adopted by the 
Colorado Division of Fire Prevention and Control in 8 CCR 1507-30. 
4.1.2 
Classroom Acoustics. To address issues of reverberation time and background noise in 
classrooms refer to ANSI/ASA S12.60-2010/ Part 1, American National Standard 
Acoustical Performance Criteria, Design Requirements, and Guidelines for Schools, Part 
1: Permanent Schools. 
4.1.3 
Roofs. A weather-tight roof that drains water positively off the roof and discharges the 
water off and away from the building. All roofs shall be installed by a qualified contractor 
who is approved by the roofing manufacturer to install the specified roof system and shall 
receive the specified warranty upon completion of the roof. The National Roofing 
Contractors Association divides roofing into two generic classifications: low-slope roofing 
and steep-slope roofing. Low-slope roofing includes water impermeable, or weatherproof 
types of roof membranes installed on slopes of less than or equal to 3:12 (fourteen 
degrees). Steep slope roofing includes water-shedding types of roof coverings installed 
on slopes exceeding 3:12 (fourteen degrees). 
4.1.3.1 - Low slope roofing systems: 
4.1.3.1.1 
- Built-up – minimum 4 ply, type IV fiberglass felt, asphalt BUR 
system. Gravel or cap sheet surfacing required. 
4.1.3.1.2 
- Ethylene Propylene Diene Monomer - minimum 60 mil EPDM 
membrane, with a ballasted or adhered system.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 303-1 
Division of Public School Capital Construction Assistance 
 
4 
4.1.3.1.3 
- Poly Vinyl Chloride - minimum 60 mil PVC membrane adhered 
or mechanically attached systems. 
4.1.3.1.4 
- Thermal Polyolefin - minimum 60 mil membrane adhered or 
mechanically attached systems. 
4.1.3.1.5 
- Polymer-modified bitumen sheet membrane - Styrene-
Butadiene-Styrene (SBS) membranes only, to be used only as a 
component of a built-up system noted above. 
4.1.3.2 - Steep slope roofing systems: 
4.1.3.2.1 
- Asphalt shingles - minimum 50 year spec asphalt shingles, UL 
Class A. 
4.1.3.2.2 
- Clay tile and concrete tile - minimum 50 year spec clay or 
concrete tile, UL Class A. 
4.1.3.2.3 
- Metal roof systems for steep-slope applications - minimum 24 
gage prefinished steel, standing seam roof system with a minimum 1.5” 
seam height. 
4.1.3.2.4 
- Slate - ¼” minimum thickness, 50 year spec. UL Class A. 
4.1.3.2.5 
- Synthetic shingles - minimum 50 year spec, UL Class A. 
4.1.4 
Electrical Systems – Power Distribution and Utilization. Safe and secure electrical service 
and distribution systems shall be designed and installed to meet the National Electrical 
Code (NEC, NFPA 70); edition as enforced by the Colorado State Buildings Programs 
(SBP), unless otherwise more stringent based on local Authority Having Jurisdiction 
(AHJ), and ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2013 “Energy Standard for Buildings 
Except Low-Rise Residential Buildings”. 
4.1.4.1 – Energy use intensity should not exceed the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) 
building benchmarks, and shall conform to ASHRAE Standard Benchmark 
Energy Utilization Index (October 2009). 
4.1.4.2 - Emergency lighting shall operate when normal lighting systems fail in locations 
and shall conform to all applicable codes adopted by the Colorado Division of 
Fire Prevention and Control in 8 CCR 1507-30. 
4.1.5 
Lighting Systems. Lighting systems shall be designed and installed to achieve 
appropriate lighting levels utilizing energy-efficient lighting fixtures and energy-saving 
automatic and manual control systems. 
4.1.5.1 - Lighting systems shall be designed and installed to meet the National Electrical 
Code (NEC, NFPA 70) edition as enforced by the Colorado State Buildings 
Programs (SBP), unless otherwise more stringent based on local Authority 
Having Jurisdiction (AHJ). 
4.1.5.2 – Illuminance levels shall meet the requirements for applicable spaces as 
recommended within in the Illuminating Engineering Society (IES) Handbook, 
and dictated by the Rules and Regulations Governing Schools in the State of 
Colorado 6 CCR 1010-6.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 303-1 
Division of Public School Capital Construction Assistance 
 
5 
4.1.5.3 – Lighting power density shall not exceed the values indicated in 
ANSI/ASHRAE/IES Standard 90.1-2013. 
4.1.5.4 - Lighting Control Systems shall be provided to comply with ANSI/ASHRAE/IES 
Standard 90.1-2013. 
4.1.6 
Mechanical Systems – Heating, Ventilation, and Air Conditioning (HVAC). Safe and 
energy efficient mechanical systems shall be designed and installed to provide proper 
ventilation, and maintain the building temperature and relative humidity, while achieving 
appropriate sound levels. 
4.1.6.1 – Mechanical systems shall be designed and installed to meet the International 
Mechanical Code, International Fuel Gas Code, International Building Code, and 
other Codes as adopted by the Colorado Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
in 8 CCR 1507. 
4.1.6.2 - Healthy building indoor air quality (IAQ) shall be provided through the use of the 
mechanical heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) systems, or by 
operable windows, and by reducing air infiltration and water penetration with a 
tight building envelope, in compliance with the enforced International Building 
Code and ASHRAE Standard 62. 1- 2013. 
4.1.6.3 - Mechanical systems shall comply with: ASHRAE Standard 62.1-2013 
Ventilation for Acceptable Indoor Air Quality, ASHRAE Standard 90.1-2013 
Energy Standard for Buildings Except Low-Rise Residential Buildings, and 
ASHRAE Standard 189.1-2014 Standard for the Design of High-Performance 
Green Buildings. 
4.1.6.4 Sound levels due to mechanical equipment shall comply with Occupational 
Safety & Health Administration Standard 1910.95 and ANSI/ASA Standard 
S12.60-2010 Part 1 for acoustical considerations within school facilities. 
4.1.7 
Plumbing Systems - Waste Water, Storm water, Domestic Water and Plumbing 
Supporting HVAC shall be in compliance with Division of Fire Prevention and Control in 8 
CCR1507 and the Colorado Department of Health & Environment regulations. 
4.1.8 
Fire Protection Systems. Building fire detection, alarm and emergency notification 
systems in all school facilities shall be designed in accordance with State requirements. 
Exceptions where code required systems are not mandatory and the occupancy 
classification according to the International Building Code 2015 does not warrant a 
system. All fire management systems shall conform to all applicable codes adopted by 
the Colorado Division of Fire Prevention and Control in 8 CCR 1507-30 and the adopted 
Fire Code. 
4.1.8.1 - Types of fire alarm notifications systems. 
4.1.8.1.1 
– Internal audible and visual alarms. 
4.1.8.1.2 
– External alarm monitoring and dispatch via internet / modem, 
telephone, radio, or cellular monitoring systems. 
4.1.8.2 - Automatic Sprinkler Systems in Group E Occupancy a sprinkler system shall be 
provided as noted in the adopted Fire Code. Refer to the adopted Fire Code for 
exceptions.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 303-1 
Division of Public School Capital Construction Assistance 
 
6 
4.1.8.2.1 
All Group E fire areas greater than 12,000 square feet in area. 
4.1.8.2.2 
Throughout every portion of educational buildings below the 
lowest level of exit discharge serving that portion of the building. 
4.1.8.3 - Types of Fire Protection Water Supplies. 
4.1.8.3.1 
- Fire hydrants. 
4.1.8.3.2 
- Static fire water storage tanks. 
4.1.9 
Means of egress. A continuous and unobstructed path of vertical and horizontal egress 
travel from any occupied portion of a building or structure to a public way. A means of 
egress consists of three separate and distinct parts: the exit access, the exit and the exit 
discharge. Reference 2015 International Building Code, Chapter 2, Definitions. A building 
code analysis shall be conducted to determine all code requirements. 
4.1.10 Facilities with safely managed hazardous materials. Potential hazardous materials in 
building components, which are identified in the Asbestos Hazard Emergency Response 
Act (AHERA) report, may include: asbestos, radon, lead, lamps and devices containing 
mercury. Additional hazardous materials may include: science chemicals, cleaning 
chemicals, blood-borne pathogens, acid neutralization tank for science departments, and 
bulk fuel storage (UST/AST) management that may be stored by the occupant. 
4.1.10.1 
- Public schools shall comply with all AHERA criteria and develop, 
maintain, and update an asbestos management plan, to be kept on record at the 
school district. This should include a building survey of the exterior of the 
building, and identification of all friable, non-friable, and trace asbestos materials. 
Reference regulation Number 8, Control of Hazardous Air Pollutants, 5 CCR 
1001-10. 
4.1.10.2 
- All new facilities and additions shall conduct radon testing following 
completion of construction within nineteen months after occupancy as required 
by Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, 6 CCR 1010-6. 
4.1.10.3 
- Lead based paint. All schools shall conform to the regulations adopted 
by the Colorado Air Quality Control Commission governing the abatement of 
lead-based paint from target housing (constructed prior to 1978) and child-
occupied facilities, reference C.R.S. 25-5-1101. 
4.1.11 Security. The degree of resistance to, or protection from, harm. It applies to any 
vulnerable and valuable asset; such as a person, building or dwelling. Security provides 
“a form of protection where a separation is created between the assets and the threat.” 
These separations are generically called “controls,” and sometimes include changes to 
the asset or the threat.  These separations and degrees of resistance can be achieved 
through several models and techniques. 
4.1.11.1 
- Video Management Systems (VMS).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 303-1 
Division of Public School Capital Construction Assistance 
 
7 
4.1.11.1.1 
- Cameras. Video cameras are typically used to implement a 
video management system. In new construction, these should be internet 
protocol (IP) cameras on Power over Ethernet (PoE) cabling 
infrastructure, with color CCD, day-night operation and supplemental IR 
illuminators and environmental accessories as required for application, 
Cameras should support motion activation, digital zoom and focus, and 
standard video compression. Fixed and pan-tilt-zoom (PTZ) cameras 
shall be considered to meet requirements. Consideration shall be given 
to cameras with integral audio microphones. 
4.1.11.1.2 
- Monitoring & Recording Systems. - A central video 
management system should be capable of monitoring live feeds from 
multiple cameras from a central location and remote locations, recording 
all video, searching and reviewing recorded video, and exporting video to 
portable digital media. A minimum of 30 days of storage of all videos at 
15fps (frames per second) is required. 
4.1.11.2 
- Controlled Access. 
4.1.11.2.1 
- General Requirements 
4.1.11.2.1.1 
- The number of entryways into the building or onto the 
campus should be limited. New construction shall be designed to 
restrict normal entrance to only one or two locations, with no 
recessed doorways, provided that sufficient entryways are 
available for fire department access and shall conform to all 
applicable codes adopted by the Colorado Division of Fire 
Prevention and Control in 8 CCR 1507-30. 
4.1.11.2.1.2 
- All exterior doors shall be locking and equipped with 
panic bars to open readily from the egress side. Panic bars 
should utilize flush push bar hardware to prevent chaining doors 
shut. 
4.1.11.2.1.2.1 
- Unless a door is intended for ingress, exterior 
doors should not have handles and locks on the outside. 
In all cases exposed hardware should be minimized, 
provided that sufficient entryways are available for fire 
department access and shall conform to all applicable 
codes adopted by the Colorado Division of Fire 
Prevention and Control in 8 CCR 1507-30. 
4.1.11.2.1.3 
- Doors should be constructed of steel, aluminum alloy, 
or solid-core hardwood. If necessary, glass doors should be fully 
framed and equipped with burglar-resistant tempered glass. 
Translucent glass should be avoided in all cases. 
4.1.11.2.1.4 
- Exit doors with panic push-bars should be “Access 
Control Doors” per the codes adopted by the Colorado Division 
of Fire Prevention and Control in 8 CCR 1507-30, to prevent 
easy access by criminals and vandals, or in a lock-down / lock-
out situation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 303-1 
Division of Public School Capital Construction Assistance 
 
8 
4.1.11.2.1.5 
- Heavy-duty metal or solid-core wooden doors should 
be used at entrances in areas containing expensive items. These 
areas include classrooms, storerooms, and custodians’ rooms. 
Interior doorway doors should also be heavy-duty metal or solid-
core wooden doors. 
4.1.11.2.1.6 
- Door hinges should have non-removable pins. 
4.1.11.2.1.7 
- Door frames should be constructed of pry-proof 
material. 
4.1.11.2.1.8 
- Armored strike plates shall be securely fastened to the 
door frame in direct alignment to receive the latch easily. 
4.1.11.3 
- Automated Locking Mechanisms. 
4.1.11.3.1.1 
Use of automated locking mechanisms (electronic 
access control) should be considered for exterior doors identified 
for entry and select interior doors associated with the main entry 
vestibule. 
4.1.11.3.1.2 
Acceptable automated electronic access control systems 
include RF-based proximity credential readers and biometric 
scanning devices. If the electronic access control systems are to 
be utilized the following shall apply: 
4.1.11.3.1.2.1 
- School personnel may be issued credentials 
for authenticating their identity in order to maintain 
efficient access to school facilities. 
4.1.11.3.1.2.2 
Students are not necessarily expected to carry 
electronic access control credentials. During normal 
arrival times, electronic locking systems may be 
disengaged via a timer while entries are monitored by 
school personnel. 
4.1.11.3.1.2.3 
All exterior doors shall utilize door position 
switches to notify staff of open doors and eliminate “door 
propping”. 
4.1.11.3.1.2.4 
Doors utilizing electronic access controls shall 
“fail secure” from the unsecure side. Free egress shall 
not be inhibited from the secure side in any scenario. 
4.1.11.4 
Manual Locking Devices 
4.1.11.4.1 
Use of a manual locking mechanism, such as traditional cylinder 
and key locks, should be provided for all interior doors requiring access 
control. 
4.1.11.4.2 
Manual and Electronic access control should not be used on the 
same door.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 303-1 
Division of Public School Capital Construction Assistance 
 
9 
4.1.11.5  
Emergency Lockdown 
4.1.11.5.1 
All exterior doors shall be able to be quickly and automatically 
secured from a position of safety (Administrative desk, Principal’s office, 
etc) without traveling to each individual exterior door. 
4.1.11.5.2 
Interior doors to occupied spaces shall be capable of quickly 
being secured from the inside by school personnel. Locking of doors may 
be done via manual deadbolt or automatic locking mechanism. Locking 
mechanism shall not interfere with automatic closing and latching 
functions required by the fire code and may have door sidelights, or door 
vision glass that allow line of sight into the corridors during emergencies, 
and shall conform to all applicable codes adopted by the Colorado 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control in 8 CCR 1507-30. 
4.1.11.6  
Intrusion Detection 
4.1.11.6.1 
A system shall be put in place to identify, alarm, and notify 
authorities in the case of unauthorized entry. 
4.1.11.7  
Alarm System 
Passive infrared (PIR) sensors shall be located interior to all building 
entries to monitor human movement. 
4.1.11.7.1.1 
– An alarm keypad shall be located at selected building 
entries to arm and disarm the intrusion detection system. 
4.1.11.7.1.2 
– A manual alarm device shall be located in a position of 
safety (Administrative desk, Principal’s office, etc.) to force 
intrusion detection system into alarm status. 
4.1.11.7.1.3 
– The intrusion detection shall notify local authorities or 
monitoring company upon alarm status. 
4.1.11.8 
  
Security Integration 
4.1.11.8.1 
The Video Management System (VMS), Access Control System, 
and Intrusion Detection System may be components of an integrated 
security solution. 
4.1.11.9 
 
- Main Entry Physical Security 
4.1.11.9.1 
- Building vestibules. Where appropriate, buildings shall employ 
double entry door designs that provide a secured area for visitors to 
authenticate and gain clearance. Known as “man traps”, security 
vestibules solve several common security issues such as students 
opening doors for visitors, visitors bypassing check-in points, direct 
access to the interior from attackers, piggy-back entrances, and propped 
doors.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 303-1 
Division of Public School Capital Construction Assistance 
 
10 
4.1.11.9.2 
- Video based entrance intercom systems. Building designs shall 
allow for school personnel to be able to monitor incoming visitors from a 
safe location out of reach, or line of site from incoming visitors who have 
not yet been authenticated or cleared for entry. These entry points shall 
use remote video and access control technology to conduct multi-factor 
authentication of incoming visitors (e.g. visual verification and ID, 
PIN/password and ID, or biometric and other form of visual 
identification). 
4.1.11.9.2.1 
- Video based entrance systems shall use IP technology 
to allow access control to be conducted by school personnel 
from multiple locations, so that multiple personnel can provide 
coverage for screening incoming visitors. 
4.1.11.9.3 
- Line of sight. The front entrance should be designed to 
maximize the line of sight distance for school occupants to detect an 
intruder from each relevant perimeter (e.g. classroom to hallway, office 
or guard station to entryway, or entryway to exterior fence access, or 
exterior fence access to property perimeter). 
4.1.11.10 
- Event alerting and notification (EAN) system. An EAN system that 
utilizes an intercom / phone system with communication devices located in all 
classrooms and throughout the school to provide efficient inter-school 
communications, and communication with local fire, police, and medical agencies 
during emergency situations. 
4.1.11.11 
- Secure sites should include the following: 
4.1.11.11.1 
- Locations to avoid. 
4.1.11.11.2 
- Location of utilities. 
4.1.11.11.3 
- Roof access. 
4.1.11.11.4 
- Lighted walkways. 
4.1.11.11.5 
- Secured playgrounds. 
4.1.11.11.6 
- Bollards at main entrances and shop areas with overhead 
doors. 
4.1.11.11.7 
- Signage. 
4.1.12 Health code standards. Schools, including labs, shops, vocational and other areas with 
hazardous substances shall conform to the Department Of Public Health and 
Environment, Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability, 6 CCR 1010-6 Rules 
and Regulations Governing Schools in the State of Colorado. 
4.1.13 Food preparation equipment and maintenance. Food preparation and associated facilities 
equipped and maintained to provide sanitary facilities for the preparation, distribution, and 
storage of food as required by Department Of Public Health And Environment, Division of 
Environmental Health and Sustainability, 6 CCR 1010-6 Rules and Regulations 
Governing Schools in the State of Colorado.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 303-1 
Division of Public School Capital Construction Assistance 
 
11 
4.1.14 Health care room. A separate health care room shall be provided and shall comply with 
the Department Of Public Health and Environment, Division of Environmental Health and 
Sustainability, 6 CR 1010-6 Rules and Regulations Governing Schools in the State of 
Colorado. 
4.1.15 A site that safely separates pedestrian and vehicular traffic and is laid out with the 
following guidelines: 
4.1.15.1 
- Physical routes for basic modes (busses, cars, pedestrians, and 
bicycles) of traffic should be separated as much as possible from each other. If 
schools are located on busy streets and/or high traffic intersections, coordinate 
with the applicable municipality or county to provide for adequate signage, traffic 
lights, and crosswalk signals to assist school traffic in entering the regular traffic 
flow. 
4.1.15.2 
- When possible, provide a dedicated bus staging and unloading area 
located away from students, staff, and visitor parking. 
4.1.15.3 
- Provide an adequate driveway zone for stacking cars on site for parent 
drop-off/pick-up zones. Drop-off area design should not require backward 
movement by vehicles, and be one-way in a counterclockwise direction where 
students are loaded and unloaded directly to the curb/sidewalk. Students should 
not have to load or unload where they have to cross a vehicle path before 
entering the building. It is recommended all loading areas have “No Parking” 
signs posted. 
4.1.15.4 
- Provide well-maintained sidewalks and a designated safe path leading 
to the school entrance(s). 
4.1.15.5 
- Building service loading areas and docks should be independent from 
other traffic and pedestrian crosswalks. If possible, loading areas shall be located 
away from school pedestrian entries. 
4.1.15.6 
- Facilities should provide bicycle access and storage if appropriate. 
4.1.15.7 
- Fire lanes shall conform to all applicable codes adopted by the 
Colorado Division of Fire Prevention and Control in 8 CCR 1507-30 or the local 
fire department. Local fire department must adhere to the codes adopted by 
DFPC. 
4.1.15.8 
- Playgrounds shall comply with the ICC A117.1-2009 Accessible and 
Usable Buildings and Facilities and shall conform to all applicable codes adopted 
by the Colorado Division of Fire Prevention and Control in 8 CCR 1507-30. 
4.1.16 Severe weather preparedness. 
4.1.16.1 
- Designated emergency shelters shall conform to all applicable codes 
adopted by the Colorado Division of Fire Prevention and Control in 8 CCR 1507-
30 and ICC 500. 
4.2 
Technology, including but not limited to telecommunications and internet connectivity technology 
and hardware, devices or equipment necessary for individual student learning and classroom 
instruction, including access to electronic instructional materials, or necessary for professional 
use by a classroom teacher.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 303-1 
Division of Public School Capital Construction Assistance 
 
12 
4.2.1 
Educational facilities for individual student learning, classroom instruction, online 
instruction and associated technologies, connected to the Colorado institutions of higher 
education distant learning networks “Internet” and “Internet two.” 
4.2.2 Educational facilities shall be supplied with standards-based wired and wireless network 
connectivity. 
4.2.3 
Security and associated filtering and intrusion control for internal voice, video and data 
networks shall be provided. 
4.2.4 
External internet service provider (ISP) connection and internal wide area network (WAN) 
connections meeting or exceeding recommended guidelines of the state education 
technology education directors association (SETDA) broadband imperative, and devices 
meeting or exceeding recommended specifications according to the most current version 
of technology guidelines for the partnership for assessment of readiness for college and 
careers (PARCC) assessments. 
4.2.5 
Provide school administrative offices with web-based activity access. 
4.2.6 
Building shall be constructed with long-term sustainable technology infrastructure. 
Facilities should be built with sufficient data cabling and/or conduit and power 
infrastructure to allow for maximum flexibility as technological systems are upgraded and 
replaced in the future. A plan for technology lifecycle review intervals should be put in 
place for review at 2-4 year intervals. 
4.2.6.1 Applicable Standards. The design and installation of technology systems shall 
comply with: 
4.2.6.1.1 
ANSI/TIA/EIA-568-C 
4.2.6.1.2 
ANSI/TIA/EIA-569 
4.2.6.1.3 
ANSI/TIA/EIA-606-B 
4.2.6.1.4 
ANSI/TIA/EIA-607-B 
4.2.6.1.5 
ANSI/BICSI 001-2009, Information Transport Systems Design 
Standard for K-12 Educational Institutions. 
4.2.7 
Telecom Equipment Rooms 
4.2.7.1 - Uninterruptible power supplies (UPS). Telecom Rooms (TRs) and Equipment 
Rooms (ERs) shall be provided with UPS equipment to provide continuous clean 
power to communications systems for a minimum of 90 minutes. 
4.2.7.2 - Generators. A backup generator shall be considered for providing backup 
power to telecommunications systems of backup power is required beyond 9 
minutes, or if the generator is already located for other purposes. 
4.2.7.3 - Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC). Mechanical equipment shall 
be used to accommodate heating loads within TRs and ERs. Ventilation-only 
systems may be used in spaces with limited equipment, active cooling systems 
should be considered for larger rooms. Maintained space temperatures shall 
target 65 degrees F. peak space temperatures shall not exceed 90 degrees F.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 303-1 
Division of Public School Capital Construction Assistance 
 
13 
4.2.7.3.1 
Direct evaporative cooling systems shall not be used, due to lack 
of control on humidity levels. 
4.2.7.4 - Alarms shall be provided to notify assigned school personnel if environmental 
conditions approach or exceed bounds of operational conditions. 
4.2.8 
Connectivity standards. 
4.2.8.1 - Wireless. Data cabling shall be planned to support appropriately spaced 
multiple-antenna wireless networking infrastructure allowing for wireless access 
points to support expected quantity of connected devices and required 
bandwidth. Support for 802.11b/g/n, 802.11ac, and/or newer protocols are 
recommended. 
4.2.8.2 - Wired. 
4.2.8.2.1 
- Cabling. All new runs of copper data cable should be Category 
6 cable or newer standards. Any data outlet should be supplied by two 
cables. Unshielded twisted pair (UTP) shall be used unless local 
conditions warrant otherwise. 
4.2.8.2.2 
- Telecom Rooms (TRs) and Equipment Rooms (ERs). TRs and 
ERs shall be connected by conduit and a combination of copper and 
fiber optic cable to allow for maximum data performance and 
upgradeability. 
4.2.8.2.3 
- TR to classroom. Classrooms should have a data outlet on the 
wall at the front and back of the room at a minimum for network/ internet 
access. Additional cabling may be warranted for security, audiovisual 
and special systems purposes. 
4.2.8.2.4 
- TR to office, and library or technology/media centers. Any 
areas designed for independent work or study should have a dedicated 
data outlet with two copper cable runs each. 
4.2.8.2.5 
- TR to common areas, auditorium, and cafeteria. Common 
areas should contain data outlets located as required to support program 
and curriculum requirements. 
4.3 
Building site requirements. Functionality of existing and planned public school facilities for core 
educational programs, particularly those educational programs for which the State Board has 
adopted state model content standards. Capacity of existing and planned public school facilities, 
taking into consideration potential expansion of services for the benefit of students such as full-
day kindergarten and preschool- and school-based health services and programs. 
4.3.1 
Traditional education model, S.T.E.M. & Montessori / Expeditionary education models. 
4.3.1.1 - Minimum occupancy requirements for schools:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 303-1 
Division of Public School Capital Construction Assistance 
 
14 
F.T.E.s
Total GSF
Total GSF
Total GSF
Total GSF
100
15,064
            
16,102
            
19,183
            
16,393
            
200
29,197
            
31,813
            
38,030
            
32,298
            
300
42,401
            
47,136
            
56,540
            
47,715
            
400
54,674
            
62,068
            
74,713
            
62,645
            
500
66,017
            
76,610
            
92,550
            
77,087
            
600
76,429
            
90,763
            
110,050
          
91,041
            
700
85,912
            
104,526
          
127,214
          
104,508
          
800
94,464
            
117,899
          
144,041
          
117,488
          
900
102,086
          
130,883
          
160,531
          
129,979
          
1000
108,778
          
143,476
          
176,685
          
141,984
          
1100
114,540
          
155,680
          
192,502
          
153,500
          
1200
119,371
          
167,494
          
207,982
          
164,529
          
Median Gross Square Foot (GSF) Per Pupil
159
                  
161
                  
137
                  
132
                  
127
                  
123
                  
118
                  
Traditional ES (K-5)
GSF/Pupil
151
                  
146
                  
141
                  
Traditional HS (9-12)
Traditional K-12
Traditional MS (6-8)
173
                  
175
                  
177
                  
178
                  
180
                  
182
                  
183
                  
185
                  
187
                  
188
                  
190
                  
192
                  
GSF/Pupil
GSF/Pupil
GSF/Pupil
155
                  
153
                  
151
                  
149
                  
147
                  
145
                  
161
                  
164
                  
149
                  
152
                  
154
                  
157
                  
159
                  
137
                  
140
                  
142
                  
144
                  
147
                  
157
                  
113
                  
109
                  
104
                  
99
                    
143
                  
142
                  
140
                  
 
F.T.E.s
Exp.
Mtsri.
S.T.E.M.
Exp.
Mtsri.
S.T.E.M.
Exp.
Mtsri.
S.T.E.M.
Exp.
Mtsri.
S.T.E.M.
100
160
161
156
171
169
166
203
198
201
174
172
180
200
155
156
151
169
167
164
202
196
199
171
170
177
300
150
151
146
167
165
162
200
194
197
169
167
175
400
145
146
141
164
163
160
198
192
195
166
164
172
500
140
141
137
162
161
158
196
191
194
163
162
169
600
135
136
132
160
159
156
194
189
192
161
159
167
700
130
131
127
158
157
154
193
187
190
158
157
164
800
125
126
122
156
155
152
191
185
188
156
154
161
900
120
121
117
154
153
150
189
184
187
153
152
159
1000
115
116
113
152
151
148
187
182
185
151
149
156
1100
110
111
108
150
149
146
186
180
183
148
146
153
1200
105
106
103
148
147
144
184
179
181
145
144
151
Median Gross Square Foot Per Pupil - Alternate Programs (Expeditionary (Exp.), Montessori (Mtsri.),  S.T.E.M.)
Alt. ES (GSF/Pupil)
Alt. MS (GSF/Pupil)
Alt. HS (GSF/Pupil)
Alt. K12 (GSF/Pupil)
 
F.T.E.s
Auditorium
Auditorium
Auditorium
Auditorium
100
1,300
              
1,500
              
1,700
              
1,700
              
200
1,600
              
1,800
              
2,000
              
2,000
              
300
1,900
              
2,100
              
2,300
              
2,300
              
400
2,400
              
2,600
              
2,800
              
2,800
              
500
2,700
              
2,900
              
3,100
              
3,100
              
600
3,000
              
3,200
              
3,400
              
3,400
              
700
3,900
              
3,900
              
3,900
              
3,900
              
800
4,200
              
4,200
              
4,200
              
4,200
              
900
4,500
              
4,500
              
4,500
              
4,500
              
1000
4,800
              
4,800
              
4,800
              
4,800
              
1100
5,100
              
5,100
              
5,100
              
5,100
              
1200
5,400
              
5,400
              
5,400
              
5,400
              
Square Foot Values - Assembly
7,200
               
ES Assembly
MS Assembly
HS Assembly
K12 Assembly
6,600
               
6,000
               
5,400
               
4,800
               
Cafeteria
Cafeteria
Cafeteria
Cafeteria
7,200
               
6,600
               
6,000
               
5,400
               
4,800
               
4,200
               
3,600
               
3,000
               
2,400
               
1,800
               
1,200
               
675
                  
3,000
               
2,400
               
1,800
               
1,200
               
675
                  
4,200
               
3,600
               
3,000
               
2,400
               
1,800
               
1,200
               
675
                  
4,200
               
3,600
               
3,000
               
2,400
               
1,800
               
7,200
               
6,600
               
6,000
               
5,400
               
4,800
               
1,200
               
675
                  
7,200
               
6,600
               
6,000
               
5,400
               
4,800
               
4,200
               
3,600
               
 
- Cafeteria Capacity assumes three (3) seatings without a secondary function overlay. 
- Auditorium Capacity SF is sized for 1/3 of General enrollment and is inclusive of stage (size varies: 1,000 to 1,800); Basis is 9 SF 
per seat (1/3 FTES) plus stage at various sizes, stage includes a small amount of storage or similar support.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 303-1 
Division of Public School Capital Construction Assistance 
 
15 
F.T.E.s
Total SF
Total SF
Total SF
Total SF
Kindergarten
1,140
              
-
                     
-
                     
1,140
              
Grade 1
960
                 
-
                     
-
                     
960
                 
Grade 2
960
                 
-
                     
-
                     
960
                 
Grade 3
960
                 
-
                     
-
                     
960
                 
Grade 4
900
                 
-
                     
-
                     
900
                 
Grade 5
900
                 
-
                     
-
                     
900
                 
Grade 6
-
                     
900
                 
-
                     
900
                 
Grade 7
-
                     
840
                 
-
                     
840
                 
Grade 8
-
                     
840
                 
-
                     
840
                 
Grade 9
-
                     
-
                     
840
                 
840
                 
Grade 10
-
                     
-
                     
840
                 
840
                 
Grade 11
-
                     
-
                     
840
                 
840
                 
Grade 12
-
                     
-
                     
840
                 
840
                 
Montessori
1,200
              
1,200
              
1,200
              
1,200
              
Expeditionary 
1,080
              
1,080
              
1,080
              
1,080
              
Square Foot (SF) Values - Core Classrooms (Minimum (Min) classroom size = 675 sf)
ES Min (24-30 FTES)
SF/Pupil
SF/Pupil
SF/Pupil
SF/Pupil
30
                    
30
                    
32
                    
32
                    
32
                    
K12 Min (24-30 FTES)
HS Min (24-30 FTES)
MS Min (24-30 FTES)
36
                    
40
                    
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
28
                    
28
                    
30
                    
-
                       
-
                       
28
                    
-
                       
38
                    
36
                    
40
                    
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
36
                    
40
                    
28
                    
28
                    
28
                    
36
                    
40
                    
28
                    
28
                    
28
                    
28
                    
28
                    
28
                    
30
                    
30
                    
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
-
                       
30
                    
32
                    
32
                    
32
                    
38
                    
 
F.T.E.s
Total SF
Total SF
Total SF
Total SF
Comp/Tech
-
                     
-
                     
Music
-
                     
-
                     
Science
Lecture
Art
Gym / MP
Special Ed
VoAg
-
                     
-
                     
-
                     
-
                     
Media Center
"Gymatorium"
Square Foot (SF) Values - Exploratory Spaces (minimum size = 675 sf)
1200 sf (30 occ)
-
                       
37
                    
3,000 SF (50'x60')
2400 sf (60 occ)
-
                       
37
                    
5,400 SF (60'x90')
4,400 SF (See notes)
4,400 SF (See notes)
-
                                                
40
                    
35
                    
32
                    
35
                    
28
                    
38
                    
35
                    
30
                    
K12 Min (24-30 F.T.E.s)
HS Min (24-30 F.T.E.s)
MS Min (24-30 F.T.E.s)
ES Min (24-30 F.T.E.s)
SF/Pupil
SF/Pupil
SF/Pupil
SF/Pupil
44
                    
35
                    
32
                    
32
                    
28
                    
28
                    
-
                                                
3600 sf (60 occ)
60
                    
37
                    
7,300 SF (70'x104')
45
                    
28
                    
44
                    
35
                    
3600 sf (60 occ)
60
                    
37
                    
7,300 SF (70'x104')
45
                    
40
                    
 
- ES Gymnasium basis is 50'X60' play area; Capacity Assumes (GE*.25)/7 periods (without fixed seats) 
- MS Gymnasium basis is 60’X90’ play area; Capacity Assumes (GE*.5)/7 periods (without fixed seats) 
- HS Gymnasium basis is 70’X104’ practice gym; Capacity Assumes (GE*.5)/7 periods (with limited fixed seats) Note: National 
Federation of State High School Association’s standards outline an “ideal” court for high school age as 84'x50' (and not greater than 
94'x50') 
- “Gymatorium” basis is 50'x60' play area and 1000 SF platform stage with 400 SF storage 
Office - large
Space Type:
Office - typical
Instruction - sm group
Storage
Staff toilets
Team planning (conf)
Work room
Instructor / Support Areas
Notes:
Multiple may be required due to scale
Multiple indivual (or in aggregate) may be required due to scale
12-16 occupants (assembly use)
16 occupants (classroom use)
Ave per instructor
Square Feet
50
50
320
240
250
150
120
 
These facility area standards are copyrighted by Cuningham Group Architecture, Inc. and may not be 
reproduced or distributed without inclusion of “Copyright 2014 Cuningham Group Architecture, Inc.”. The 
data was derived from a multi-year national facility area standards study, supported in part by the 
Colorado League of Charter Schools. 
4.3.2 
Other rooms.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 303-1 
Division of Public School Capital Construction Assistance 
 
16 
4.3.2.1 - Facilities with preschools shall comply with Rules Regulating Child Care 
Centers (Less Than 24-Hour Care) 12 CCR 2509-8 and shall comply with the 
Colorado Department of Public Health and Safety’s Regulations Governing Child 
Care, 6 CCR 1010-7. 
4.3.2.2 - Special education classrooms. Special Education classrooms and facilities 
meeting or exceeding the accessibility and adaptive needs of the current and 
reasonably anticipated student population, in accordance with Section 504 and 
Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Exceptional Children’s 
Educational Act, and Individuals with Disabilities Education Act. 
4.4 
Building performance standards and guidelines for green building and energy efficiency. 
Section 24-30-1305.5 C.R.S., requires all new facilities, additions, and renovation projects funded 
with 25% or more of state funds to conform with the High Performance Certification Program 
(HPCP) policy adopted by the Office of the State Architect (OSA) if: 
• 
The new facility, addition, or renovation project contains 5,000 or more building square 
feet; and 
• 
The project includes an HVAC system; and 
• 
If increased initial cost resulting from HPCP can be recouped by decreased operational 
costs within 15 years, and 
• 
In the case of a renovation project, the cost of the renovation exceeds 25% of the current 
value of the property. 
4.4.1 
High Performance Certification Programs. 
4.4.1.1 The Department of Personnel and Administration, Office of the State Architect 
has determined the following three guidelines as meeting the High Performance 
Certification Program (HPCP) requirements per C.R.S.24-30-1305.5; the U.S. 
Green Building Council, Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design – New 
Construction (USGBC LEED™-NC) guideline with Gold as the targeted 
certification level; and the Green Building Initiative (GBI), Green Globes guideline 
with Three Globes the targeted certification level; and for the Colorado 
Department of Education, K-12 construction, the Collaborative for High 
Performance Schools (US-CHPS) is an optional guideline with Verified Leader as 
the targeted certification level. 
4.4.1.2 – LEED, or Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (for schools) is a 
globally recognized symbol of excellence in green building. 
4.4.1.2.1 
LEED is an internationally recognized certification system that 
measures a building using several metrics, including: energy savings, 
water efficiency, sustainable land use, improved air quality, and 
stewardship of natural resources. 
4.4.1.2.2 
Points are awarded on a 100-point scale, and credits are 
weighted to reflect their potential environmental impacts. Different levels 
of certification are granted based on the total number of earned points. 
The four progressive levels of certification from lowest to highest are: 
certified, silver, gold and platinum.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 303-1 
Division of Public School Capital Construction Assistance 
 
17 
4.4.1.3 United States Collaborative for High Performance Schools (US-CHPS). US-
CHPS reflects the three priority outcomes of the Core Criteria. These are, in 
order of importance. 
4.4.1.3.1 
Maximize the health and performance of students and staff. 
4.4.1.3.2 
Conserve energy, water and other resources in order to save 
precious operating dollars. 
4.4.1.3.3 
Minimize material waste, pollution and environmental 
degradation created by a school. 
4.4.1.3.4 
The CHPS National Technical Committee has weighted the 
available point totals for prerequisites and credits in seven categories to 
reflect these three priorities. 
4.4.2 
Renewable energy strategies. 
4.4.2.1 - Solar Photovoltaic / Solar Thermal. 
4.4.2.1.1 
SB 20-124 Requires consultation with the incumbent electric 
utility regarding energy efficiency; beneficial electrification, as defined in 
section 40-3.2-106 (6)(a); and renewable distributed generation 
opportunities. 
4.4.2.2 - Geothermal / Geo exchange. 
4.4.2.3 - Wind. 
4.4.2.4 - Passive Solar Design. 
4.4.3 
Energy management plan. 
4.4.3.1 - Energy programs assist with creating a culture of energy efficiency within a 
school. Reference Energy Star Guidelines for Energy Management to help 
develop a plan. 
4.4.4 
Other energy efficient options. 
4.4.4.1 - ENERGY STAR Labeled HVAC / mechanical systems. 
4.4.4.2 - Windows, doors, and skylights (collectively known as fenestration). 
4.4.4.3 - Building Envelope. 
4.4.4.3.1 
- The interface between the interior of the building and the 
outdoor environment, including the walls, roof, and foundation – serves 
as a thermal barrier and plays an important role in determining the 
amount of energy necessary to maintain a comfortable indoor 
environment relative to the outside environment.  
4.4.4.3.2 
- Roof. Roof design and materials can reduce the amount of air 
conditioning required in hot climates by increasing the amount of solar 
heat that is reflected, rather than absorbed, by the roof. For example,

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 303-1 
Division of Public School Capital Construction Assistance 
 
18 
roofs that qualify for ENERGY STAR® are estimated to reduce the 
demand for peak cooling by 10 to 15 percent. 
4.4.4.3.3 
- Insulation is important throughout the building envelope. 
4.4.4.4 - Lighting. 
4.4.4.4.1 
- Light emitting diodes (LEDs), compact fluorescents (CFLs) and 
fluorescent lighting should be considered over traditional incandescent 
lighting. 
4.4.4.4.5 
- Commissioning, retro commissioning and re-commissioning. 
4.4.4.4.5.1 
- Commissioning ensures that a new building operates initially as 
the owner intended and that building staff are prepared to operate and 
maintain its systems and equipment. 
4.4.4.4.5.2 
- Retro commissioning is the application of the commissioning 
process to existing buildings. 
4.4.4.4.5.3 
- Re-commissioning is another type of commissioning that 
occurs when a building that has already been commissioned, undergoes 
another commissioning process. 
4.4.4.4.6 
- Measurement and verification. 
4.4.4.4.6.1 
 Measurement and verification (M&V) is the term given to the process for 
quantifying savings delivered by an Energy Conservation Measure (ECM), as 
well as the sub-sector of the energy industry involved with this practice. M & V 
demonstrates how much energy the ECM has avoided using, rather than the total 
cost saved. 
4.4.4.4.7 
- Landscaping 
4.4.4.4.7.1 
Irrigation: Consider water management which could include reducing 
storm-water run-off, preventing erosion and decreasing the effects of soil 
expansion. 
4.4.4.4.7.2 
Plant Materials: Consider Native materials, Xeriscaping. 
4.4.4.4.7.3 
Grass/ Sod Areas: Consider use of grass/ sod areas, consider water use, 
alternate options if planting sports fields. 
4.4.4.4.8 
– Permitting 
4.4.4.4.8.1 
Application for public school construction projects permits can be made 
at the DFPC website, www.colorado.gov/dfpc > Sections > Fire & Life Safety > 
Permits and Construction > School Construction. 
4.4.4.4.8.2 
If a local building department has entered into a memorandum of 
understanding (MOU) with DFPC, that local building department is considered a 
Prequalified Building Department (PBD). A School District may, at its discretion, 
choose to apply for permit through DFPC or the PBD that has jurisdiction of 
construction projects for the location of the school construction project. The list of 
PBD’s is available on the DFPC website, School Construction.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 303-1 
Division of Public School Capital Construction Assistance 
 
19 
4.5 
The historic significance of existing public school facilities and their potential to meet current 
programming needs by rehabilitating such facilities. 
4.5.1 
Buildings that are 50 years or older at the time of application may be subject to the State 
Register Act 24-80.1-101 to 108 in determining if the affected properties have historical 
significance. 
4.5.1.1 - Historical significance means having importance in the history, 
architecture, archaeology, or culture of this state or any political 
subdivision thereof or of the United States, as determined by the state 
historical society. 
4.5.2 
When determining if a facility should be replaced, the cost to rehabilitate versus the cost to 
replace should be evaluated. 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor's Notes 
History 
Entire rule emer. rule eff. 9/10/2008; expired 12/10/2008. 
Entire rule eff. 01/30/2009. 
Rules 3.10, 3.11, 4.3, 5, 6 eff. 11/30/2009. 
Entire rule eff. 12/30/2011. 
Rules 5.1.24.1-5.1.24.3 eff. 12/30/2012. 
Entire rule eff. 01/30/2015. 
Rules 3.1.4, 3.1.9-3.1.11 eff. 10/30/2015. 
Articles 3, 4 eff. 11/30/2016. 
Rules 3.1, 4.1.6.4, 4.1.16.1, 4.2, 4.4.2-4.4.6 eff. 03/30/2017. 
Rule 4.2 eff. 12/30/2017. 
Rule 4.4.2.1.1 eff. 02/14/2021.
