---
id: "1_CCR_301-113"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1 CCR 301-113"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12560&fileName=1%20CCR%20301-113&type=pdf"
---

#### 1_CCR_301-113. 1 CCR 301-113

1 
Department of Education 
Colorado State Board of Education 
RULES FOR THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE EDUCATOR RECRUITMENT AND 
RETENTION PROGRAM 
1 CCR 301-113 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
1.00 STATEMENT OF BASIS AND PURPOSE 
Section 22-60.3-202, et seq. C.R.S., creates the Educator Recruitment and Retention 
Program. The purpose of the program is to provide support to members of the armed 
forces, nonmilitary-affiliated educator candidates, and local education providers to 
recruit, select, train, and retain highly qualified educators across the state.  
The statutory authority for these rules is found in section 22-60.3-202(5), C.R.S., which 
permits the State Board to adopt rules as necessary to implement the program. 
2.00 DEFINITIONS 
2.00(1) 
Alternative teacher: A teacher who has been issued an alternative teacher 
license as defined in 22-60.5.-201(a), C.R.S. 
2.00(2) 
CTE credential: A Career and Technical Education authorization as 
defined in 22-60.5-111(9), C.R.S. 
2.00(3) 
Department: The Colorado Department of Education as defined in section 
24-1-115, C.R.S. 
 
2.00(4) 
Educator preparation program: An approved program of preparation, as 
defined in section 22-60.5-102(8), C.R.S., or an alternative teacher program, as 
defined in section 22-60.5-102(5), C.R.S., or other organization that provides 
educator preparation for a qualified program participant and is approved by the 
Department. 
2.00(5) 
Program: The Educator Recruitment and Retention Program created in 
section 22-60.3-202, C.R.S. 
2.00(6) 
Local Education Provider: A school district, a charter school authorized by 
a school district pursuant to Part 1 of Article 30.5 of Title 22, a charter school 
authorized by the State Charter School Institute pursuant to Part 5 of Article 30.5 
of Title 22, or a Board of Cooperative Services created and operating pursuant to 
Article 5 of Title 22 that operates one or more public schools. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-113 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
2 
2.00(7) 
Member of the armed forces: A member of the United States Army, Air 
Force, Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, Space Force or any of the armed 
forces’ active reserve components or of the National Guard. 
2.00(8) 
Qualified program participant: An individual who meets the program 
criteria and is either a member of the armed forces or a nonmilitary-affiliated 
educator candidate. 
2.00(9) 
Rural school district: A Colorado school district that the Department 
determines is rural, based on the geographic size of the school district, the 
distance of the school district from the nearest large, urbanized area and the total 
student enrollment is 6,500 or fewer students in pre-kindergarten through twelfth 
grade. 
2.00(10) 
Separation: An honorable discharge, release from active duty, release 
from custody and control of the armed forces or a similar change in active or 
reserve status. 
2.00(11) 
Shortage area: An educator shortage area determined by the State Board 
of Education. 
2.00(12) 
Small rural school district: A Colorado school district that the Department 
determines is rural, based on the geographic size of the school district, the 
distance of the school district from the nearest large, urbanized area and that 
enrolls fewer than 1,000 students in pre-kindergarten through twelfth grade. 
2.00(13) 
State Board of Education: The Colorado State Board of Education 
established by section 1 of Article IX of the Constitution of the State of Colorado. 
2.00(14) 
Temporary educator eligibility (TEE) educator: An educator who has been 
issued a temporary educator eligibility authorization as defined in 22-60.5-11(5), 
C.R.S. 
3.00 FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE 
3.01 A member of the armed forces with honorable discharge status or currently 
serving, or a nonmilitary-affiliated educator candidate may apply to the program 
to receive financial assistance of up to $7,500 for the tuition cost of an educator 
preparation program in which the applicant is enrolled. 
3.02 The department shall review each application and determine whether the 
applicant meets the following criteria for participation in the program: 
3.02(1) 
Is enrolled in a Colorado-approved traditional or alternative 
educator preparation program or institute of higher education for 
applicants pursuing a CTE credential; 
3.02(2) 
Meets one of the following:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-113 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
3 
3.02(2)(a) 
Has earned bachelor’s or higher degree from a regionally 
accredited college or university and has secured employment as an 
alternative teacher or temporary educator eligibility (TEE) educator 
in a rural or small rural district; or 
3.02(2)(b) 
Is currently employed as a paraprofessional in a school 
district, charter school or BOCES and is working toward a 
baccalaureate degree as required to pursue a professional teaching 
license; or 
3.02(2)(c) 
Has secured a position as a CTE instructor in a rural or small 
rural district and meets state CTE requirements: 
3.02(3)(c)(i) as outlined in 23-60-304(3)(a) and section 4.04 of 1 
CCR 301-37; or 
3.02(3)(c)(ii) has the equivalent of eighteen (18) semester hours of 
postsecondary enrollment and six (6) years of military 
experience that are applicable to a CTE credential.  
3.03 Subject to available appropriations, upon determination of qualification, the 
Department shall provide to the educator preparation program in which the 
qualified program participant is enrolled financial assistance for the tuition cost of 
the educator preparation program up to the total amount of the applicant’s award. 
The maximum award for each applicant is $7,500. 
3.03(1) 
As a condition of receiving financial assistance, applicants must 
agree to serve for a minimum of three years in a rural or small rural district 
or in an educator shortage area, as determined by the State Board of 
Education. Residency year(s) in an approved alternative preparation 
program can count towards the years of teaching in a rural or small rural 
school district or an educator shortage area. 
3.03(1)(a) 
For programs that are more than one year in length, 
payments may be made to the educator preparation program in 
multiple installments throughout the duration of the program. For 
programs lasting more than one year, or for situations requiring 
payments to be made subsequent to the year of the original award, 
payment will depend on availability of funds for the fiscal year in 
which payment is requested.   
3.03(1)(b) 
The Department will issue a grant award letter to the 
educator preparation program for an amount of up to $7,500. The 
total amount of payment(s) made will depend on the actual tuition 
amount of the educator preparation program. The grant payments 
may not exceed the tuition amount of the program.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-113 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
4 
3.04 If the qualified program participant does not fulfill the service condition outlined in 
Rule 3.03(1), and without documentation of good cause (such as illness, death, 
spouse military transfer, etc.), the participant shall repay the awarded financial 
assistance to the Department within 90 days of leaving their employment in a 
rural school district, small rural school district, or educator shortage area.  
3.04(1) 
Program participants must sign an agreement acknowledging the 
commitment to teach in a rural school district, small rural district or 
shortage area for three years as a condition of funding and agreeing to 
pay back the funds if they do not complete the service obligation.  
3.04(2) 
Program participants must also annually certify their continued 
employment in a rural school district, small rural district, or shortage area 
for the entire three-year service period. 
4.00 APPLICATIONS 
Qualified program participants who wish to receive financial assistance must submit an 
application to the Department. 
4.01 Application timeline 
4.01(1) 
The Department will make the application form available to 
applicants by Feb. 1, 2022, and annually every year after that. 
4.01(2) 
Applications will be accepted on a rolling basis. 
4.01(3) 
The Department will notify applicants of the decision on their 
application within 60 days of receipt of the application. 
4.02 Application contents 
4.02(1) 
The Department will develop a program application form. Each 
application, at a minimum, must specify: 
4.02(1)(a) 
Applicant name; 
4.02(1)(b) 
Race; 
4.02(1)(c) 
Gender; 
4.02(1)(d) 
Educator preparation program in which the applicant is 
currently enrolled; 
4.02(1)(e) 
Military status; 
4.02(1)(f) 
Highest level of education attained; 
4.02(1)(g) 
Applicable employment as a paraprofessional;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-113 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
5 
4.02(1)(h) 
Documentation of relevant coursework, military experience, 
or other professional experience which meets the eligibility criteria 
for a CTE credential; 
4.02(1)(i) 
Relevant employment documentation: 
4.02(1)(i)(i) Current verification of employment as a CTE 
instructor, alternative teacher, or paraprofessional; or 
4.02(1)(i)(ii) Executed intent to hire form; and  
4.02(1)(j) 
Agreement to teach for three years in a rural or small rural 
school district or shortage area and agreement to provide the 
Department with annual certification of such employment on a form 
provided by the Department.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-113 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
6 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 12/30/2021. 
Entire rule eff. 11/30/2022. 
Entire rule eff. 06/01/2026.
