---
id: "1_CCR_301-76"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1 CCR 301-76"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=11480&fileName=1%20CCR%20301-76&type=pdf"
---

#### 1_CCR_301-76. 1 CCR 301-76

1 
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
Colorado State Board of Education 
RULES FOR THE DEVELOPMENT, EXPANSION, IMPLEMENTATION, AND MANAGEMENT OF THE 
REGIONAL SERVICE AREAS 
1 CCR 301-76 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Authority: Article IX, Section 1, Colorado Constitution. 22-2-106(1)(a) and (c); 22-2-107(1)(c); 22-7-
409(1.5); and Article 5.5 of Title 22 of the Colorado Revised Statutes (C.R.S.). 
1.00 
Statement of Basis and Purpose. 
The statutory basis for these rules is found in 22-2-106(1)(a) and (c), State Board Duties; 22-2-107(1)(c), 
State Board Powers; and Article 5.5 of Title 22, Regional Service Areas Act, C.R.S. 
The Regional Service Area Act, Article 5.5 of Title 22, C.R.S., requires the State Board of Education to 
promulgate rules pursuant to the “State Administrative Procedure Act”, Article 4 of Title 24, C.R.S., for the 
development, expansion, implementation, and management of the regional service areas. 
Revisions to section 2.02 (3) of these rules are made to incorporate new statutory requirements 
established by H.B. 12-1090 (concerning the annual count date for establishing total pupil enrollment of 
each public school) in section 22-54-103 (10.5) (a), C.R.S. 
2.0 
Definitions. 
2.00(1) Administrative Unit: A school district, a Board of Cooperative Services, a multi-district 
administrative unit, a charter school network, a charter school collaborative, or the state charter 
school institute, that is providing educational services to exceptional children and that is 
responsible for the local administration of Article 20 of Title 22 of the Colorado Revised Statutes. 
2.00(2) Board: The Board of Education of a school district. 
2.00(3) Board of Cooperative Services or BOCES: A Board of Cooperative Services created and 
operating pursuant to Article 5 of Title 22. 
2.00(4) Department: The Department of Education created and exists pursuant to section 24-1-115, 
C.R.S. 
2.00(5) Postsecondary Institution: A community or technical college, a junior college, or a state-supported 
institution of higher education. 
2.00(6) Regional Service Area: One of twelve regional service areas created pursuant to section 22-5.5-
104, C.R.S. 
2.00(7) Regional Service Council: The governing body of a regional service area plan, which governing 
body is established pursuant to section 22-5.5-105, C.R.S. 
2.00(8) School District: A school district existing pursuant to law. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-76 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
2 
2.00(9) State Board: The State Board of Education created and exists pursuant to Section 1 of Article IX 
of the State Constitution. 
2.1 
Regional Service Areas Development and Expansion Procedures. 
On or before December 1, 2008, the State Board, in consultation with the Department, school districts, 
and boards of cooperative services, shall divide the state into twelve regional service areas throughout 
the state. Each regional service area shall consist of at least two school districts and one or more boards 
of cooperative services. 
2.01(1) Regional Service Areas Organization. Following the creation of the twelve regional service areas 
by the State Board, but on or before June 30, 2009, individuals in a regional service area may 
organize a regional service area. Participants in a regional service area may include, but need not 
be limited to, representatives from school districts, boards of cooperative services, administrative 
units, early childhood councils, postsecondary institutions, business and industry, other education 
agencies in the regional service area, teachers, and parents. A regional service area plan shall be 
governed by no more than one regional service council. 
2.01(1)(a) 
Participation by school districts or boards of cooperative services in a regional 
service area is voluntary. 
2.01(1)(b) 
Participation in a regional service area will not divide an existing BOCES. 
2.01(1)(c) 
All school districts in a region are contiguous and take into account geographic 
barriers and distance (e.g., mountain passes). 
2.01(2) [Expired 05/15/2024 per House Bill 24-1227] 
2.01(3) Regional Service Areas Funding Plan. To receive funding, the regional service council on behalf 
of each regional service area shall submit a plan to the State Board for approval, as a 
prerequisite to the receipt of state moneys, on or before June 30, 2009. On or before August 1, 
2009, the State Board shall notify each regional service council that submitted a plan for a 
regional service area of its approval or rejection. The plan shall address the needs of large and 
small school districts within the regional service area and focus on increasing effectiveness and 
efficiencies in providing education and services throughout the region. The plan shall include, at a 
minimum: 
2.01(3)(a) 
A list of representatives from various educational agencies and business and 
industry in the regional service area; 
2.01(3)(b) 
A description of how the regional service area intends to use and develop state, 
regional, and local expertise; 
2.01(3)(c) 
An outline of available funding sources, including local and regional contributions, 
federal moneys, and any available state resources; 
2.01(3)(d) 
A description of how the agencies within the regional service area will coordinate 
and collaborate to enhance effectiveness and efficiencies among and between regional 
service areas; 
2.01(3)(e) 
A strategy to address the needs of participating school districts within the 
regional service area; 
2.01(3)(f) 
A budget outlining projected expenditures by the regional service area; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-76 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
3 
2.01(3)(g) 
Accountability criteria associated with the plan, including but not limited to: 
2.01(3)(g)(I) 
Evaluation of alignment with established state priorities; 
2.01(3)(g)(II) 
Rationale for selection of priorities based upon regional needs 
assessment data; 
2.01(3)(g)(III) 
Goals that are specific, measurable, achievable, and realistic, all within 
an established timeframe; 
2.01(3)(g)(IV) 
Specific outcomes demonstrated with effectiveness and efficiencies; 
2.01(3)(g)(V) 
An evaluation process and criteria; and 
2.01(3)(g)(VI) 
Budget alignment with priorities and activities. 
2.2 
Implementation Procedures. 
2.02(1) Development Grant. On or before June 30, 2009, a regional service council may apply to the 
State Board on behalf of a regional service area for a one-time grant of up to ten thousand dollars 
for direct reimbursement of expenses related to the development of the plan for the regional 
service area. The State Board shall provide an applying regional service council with the one-time 
grant for reimbursement of expenses related to the development of the plan no later than thirty 
days following the submission of the grant application. 
2.02(2) Regional Service Area Grant. If the plan for a regional service area is approved by the State 
Board pursuant to section 22-5.5-105, C.R.S., on or after July 1, 2009, and annually thereafter, 
the State Board shall award to the regional service area a grant of up to fifty thousand dollars, 
subject to available appropriations by the general assembly. If available moneys are insufficient to 
award each eligible regional service area a full fifty-thousand-dollar grant, the state board shall 
reduce proportionately all grant awards for eligible regional service areas for that year. A regional 
service council may choose not to accept funding on behalf of the regional service area if the 
prorated amount is insufficient to allow the regional service area to function effectively. 
2.02(3) Per-Pupil Allocation. In addition to the Development and Regional Service Area Grants, on or 
after July 1, 2009, and annually thereafter, the Department shall, subject to available 
appropriation, allocate to each eligible regional service area an amount equal to up to fifty cents 
per pupil based on the pupil enrollment for each school district in the regional service area as of 
the pupil enrollment count date, defined in section 22-54-103 (10.5) (a), C.R.S., of the previous 
year. 
2.02(4) Continued Funding. Funding for a regional service area after the first grant is contingent upon the 
successful implementation of the regional service area’s plan, as evaluated by the State Board 
and the Department. The State Board shall annually notify each regional service council on or 
before August 1 regarding whether the regional service area will receive moneys pursuant to 22-
5.5.-106 (2) and (3), C.R.S., in the coming year and the amounts. 
2.02(5) Grant Management and Fiscal Oversight. A regional service council may use a maximum of ten 
percent of the amount annually received by the regional service area for grant management and 
fiscal oversight. For regions with a total pupil enrollment of less than fifteen thousand students, 
the regional service council may use up to twenty percent of the amount annually received by the 
regional service area for grant management and fiscal oversight.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-76 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
4 
2.02(6) Budget Reporting. Each regional service council that receives funding on behalf of a regional 
service area shall submit to the Department a revised annual budget on or before March 1, 2010, 
and on or before March 1 each year thereafter. If a regional service council expects to exceed by 
more than ten percent the projected expenditures specified in the budget included in the original 
plan submitted to the State Board, the regional service council shall first seek prior written 
approval for the expenditure from the Department and may only expend beyond the ten percent 
after having secured prior written approval from the Department. 
2.02(7) Gifts, Grants, and Donations. Each regional service council is authorized to seek and accept gifts, 
grants, or donations from private or public sources for the purposes of Article 5.5. of Title 22, 
C.R.S., except that a gift, grant, or donation shall not be accepted if the conditions attached to the 
gift, grant, or donation require its expenditure in a manner contrary to law. Any gifts, grants, or 
donations received by a regional service council shall be submitted directly to the Board of 
Cooperative Services that is acting as the regional service council’s fiscal agent. 
2.02(8) Fiscal Agent. Each regional service shall select one Board of Cooperative Services in the regional 
service area to act as its fiscal agent to receive the moneys from the State Treasurer or any gifts, 
grants, or donations accepted pursuant to 22-5.5-106 (6.5), C.R.S. 
2.3 
Management Procedures. 
2.03(1) Programs and Services. A regional service area may provide any of the following services and 
programs, including but not limited to: 
2.03(1)(a) 
Data and assessment centers; 
2.03(1)(b) 
Shared financial services among school districts and boards of cooperative 
services; 
2.03(1)(c) 
Cooperative purchases; 
2.03(1)(d) 
Technology infrastructure and support; 
2.03(1)(e) 
Distance, on-line learning, and other alternative learning opportunities for 
students; 
2.03(1)(f) 
Precollegiate programs, counseling, and dropout prevention; 
2.03(1)(g) 
Capital construction planning assistance; 
2.03(1)(h) 
Curriculum and instructional expertise and support; 
2.03(1)(i) 
Professional development for teachers and administrators; 
2.03(1)(j) 
Regional and state initiatives; 
2.03(1)(k) 
Shared administration and support services for school districts; 
2.03(1)(l) 
Early childhood and preschool programs; and 
2.03(1)(m) 
Postsecondary partnerships and services to support student transitions into 
postsecondary schools.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 301-76 
Colorado State Board of Education 
 
5 
2.03(2) Reporting Requirements. On or before July 1 of the year following the approval of a regional 
service area’s plan pursuant to section 22-5.5-105, C.R.S., and on or before January 1 each year 
thereafter, the regional service council shall submit a written report on behalf of the regional 
service area to the State Board and the Department summarizing its activities for the calendar 
year, especially those activities related to the measurable goals and objectives outlined in the 
plan, a summary of any efficiencies or improved effectiveness achieved at the district or regional 
level by the regional service area, and any proposed amendments to the plan originally submitted 
to the State Board. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 10/31/2008. 
Sections 1.00, 2.02(3) eff. 12/30/2012. 
Entire rule eff. 04/30/2023. 
 
Annotations 
Rule 2.01(2) (adopted 03/08/2023) was not extended by House Bill 24-1227 and therefore expired 
05/15/2024.
