---
id: "1_CCR_301-50"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1 CCR 301-50"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=2078&fileName=1%20CCR%20301-50&type=pdf"
---

#### 1_CCR_301-50. 1 CCR 301-50

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF  EDUCATION 
Colorado State Board of Education 
RULES FOR THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE SUMMER SCHOOL GRANT PROGRAM FOR 
ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT 
1 CCR 301-50 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
2207801-R-1.00  Statement of Basis and Purpose. 
The statutory basis for these rules, adopted November 8, 2001,  repealed on  October  9, 2003,  and  re-
adopted  on  February 8, 2007  is found in 22-2-106(1)(a) and (c), State Board duties; 22-2-107(1)(c), 
State Board powers; and 22-7-801 through 22-7-807, C.R.S., the Summer School Grant Program for 
Academic Achievement. 
The Summer School Grant Program, 22-7-801 through 22-7-807, C.R.S., requires the State Board of 
Education to promulgate rules which include, but are not limited to:  The funding of programs designed to 
provide intensive reading, writing, and/or mathematics services to eligible children; application procedures 
that describe the research-based curriculum and assessments that the school district will use in the 
summer  program; the number of eligible students to be served; time frames for submitting applications; 
the form of the grant program application; evaluation of progress; and other criteria the State Board may 
deem appropriate. 
2207801-R-2.00  Definitions. 
2.00 (1)  CSAP. 
The Colorado Student  Assessment  Program administered pursuant to section 22-7-409, C.R.S. 
2.00 (2)  Department (CDE). 
Department (CDE) means the Department of Education created and existing pursuant to section 
24-1-115, C.R.S. 
2.00 (3)  Eligible Student. 
A student who will begin fifth, sixth, seventh, or eighth grade in the next academic year and who 
has received an unsatisfactory proficiency level score on the reading, writing, or mathematics 
assessment administered through the CSAP for the preceding academic year. 
2.00 (4)  Grant Program. 
Grant Program means the Summer School Grant Program created in section 22-7-803, C.R.S. to 
provide grants to school districts and institute charter schools to operate summer school 
programs that will provide intensive reading, writing, or mathematics education services to 
students entering the fifth through eighth grades who received an unsatisfactory proficiency level 
score on the reading, writing, or mathematics subject area(s) of the Colorado Student 
Assessment Program (CSAP) for the previous academic year.  Research-based practices will be 
required that can demonstrate significant improvement in a student’s reading, writing, or 
mathematics achievement in a short period of time. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
2 
2.00 (5)  State Board. 
State Board means the State Board of Education created pursuant to Section I of Article IX of the 
State Constitution. 
2207801-R-2.01  Implementation Procedures. 
2.01 (1)  Funding Levels. 
CDE will accept applications from school districts, a group of school districts (consortium),  and  
/or institute charter  schools  to fund the operation of summer school reading, writing, and/or 
mathematics programs for  eligible  students.  In total,  a minimum of eight  regional grants ( at 
least one grant  per region) will be awarded to a school district, a group of school districts 
(consortium),  and  /or  an  individual  grant  to  an  institute charter school. The  grant awards will 
be  proportionate in each region based on the number of eligible students within each region. 
2.01  (1)(a) 
For the 2006-2007 budget year and for each budget year thereafter, subject to available 
appropriations, the general assembly shall annually appropriate from the state education 
fund for summer school programs. School district(s) and/or institute charter schools 
applying for subsequent grants will not be funded in successive years, if adequate 
progress was not demonstrated in the previous grant cycle. 
2.01  (1)(B) 
All grants awarded pursuant to 22-7-803 C.R.S. will be issued to school districts or 
Institute Charter Schools on or before April 30 of each budget year for which moneys are 
appropriated for the grant program. 
2.01 (2)  Application Procedures and Timelines. 
Programs will be funded on  an  annual  basis based on the most recent CSAP results regarding 
unsatisfactory performance of students in the  subject  area(s)  of reading, writing, and/or 
mathematics, who are entering the  fifth  through eighth grades.  CDE  will develop  a Request for 
Proposal  (RFP),  pursuant to the  requirements  found in  22-7-803, C.R.S. In order for 
applications to be approved by CDE, applicants must submit, on forms to be provided by CDE, 
the following documentation, assurances, and/or information on or before March 21 of each year: 
2.01  (2)(a) 
The number of eligible students the school district(s)  and  / or  institute  charter  school  
will serve. 
2.01  (2)(b) 
A description of the curriculum that the school district(s)  and/or  institute  charter  school  
will use in the Summer School Program.  The school district(s)  and/or  institute  charter  
school  must assure to CDE in its application that the  proposed curriculum is aligned with 
Colorado’s academic content standards for reading, writing, and/or mathematics and that 
the proposed curriculum and program(s) of instruction are research-based,  with proven 
intensity  to demonstrate significant improvement in a student’s performance in a short 
period of time, and  that it will be  administered by teachers who  have been  trained in 
the use of the program.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
3 
2.01 (2)(c) 
A draft budget in compliance with CDE’s standard fiscal rules including a budget 
narrative. A final budget and budget narrative will be required after actual allocations are 
determined.  Upon approval of a final budget and budget narrative, funds will be released 
to the grantees. 
2.01  (2)(d) 
Signature Page. 
2.01  (2)(e) 
Other assurances required by applicants in the application include: An assurance that the 
applicant will annually provide CDE such information as may be required to determine if 
the grantee is making satisfactory progress toward accomplishing the funded activities, 
including participation in evaluations or studies; an assurance that the district will not 
discriminate against anyone regarding race, gender, national origin, color, disability or 
age; an assurance that funded projects will maintain appropriate fiscal and program 
records and that fiscal audits of this program will be conducted by the grantees as a part 
of their regular audits; an assurance that if any findings of misuse of these funds are 
discovered, project funds will be returned to CDE; and an assurance that the grantee will 
maintain sole responsibility for the project even though subcontractors may be used to 
perform certain services. 
2.01 (3)  Reporting Requirements. 
Each school district, group of school districts (consortium), and /or  institute  charter  
school  participating in the program must submit an annual report to CDE on or before 
October 1 following the completion of the summer school program and shall include the 
following information: 
2.01  (3)(a) 
The number of eligible students who participated in the school  district(s’)  and  /or 
institute charter school’s summer school program. 
2.01  (3)(b) 
Pre and post test performance data in the subject area(s) in which the summer school 
program was offered, based on an assessment instrument, determined by  CDE,  which 
will be administered to the eligible students before and after participating in the program. 
2.01 (4)  Evaluation of Progress 
The Department will review pre and post test performance data, for each participating student, in 
the subject area(s) in which the summer school program was offered, based on an assessment 
instrument determined by CDE. A comparison of pre and post test data will be reviewed to 
evaluate the progress of programs.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
4 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 04/30/2007. 
Entire rule eff. 12/30/2007.
