---
id: "2_CCR_502-3"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "2 CCR 502-3"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=5425&fileName=2%20CCR%20502-3&type=pdf"
---

#### 2_CCR_502-3. 2 CCR 502-3

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES 
Behavioral Health 
CHILD MENTAL HEALTH TREATMENT ACT - Repealed eff. 11/01/2013 
2 CCR 502-3 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
STATEMENT OF BASIS AND PURPOSE, REGULATORY ANALYSIS AND SPECIFIC STATUTORY 
AUTHORITY 
The addition of a new section to the Mental Health Services rules was adopted as emergency on 6/4/99 
by the State Board of Human Services, with an effective date of 7/1/99 (CSPR# 99-5-5-1). Statement of 
Basis and Purpose, Regulatory Analysis, and specific statutory authority for these revisions were 
incorporated by reference into the rule. These materials are available for review by the public during 
normal working hours at the Office of External Affairs. Department of Human Services. 
Revisions to the Mental Health Services rules were adopted emergency and final on 8/6/99 by the State 
Board of Human Services, with an effective date of 7/1/99 and 8/6/99 (CSPR# 99-5-5-1). Statement of 
Basis and Purpose. Regulatory Analysis and specific statutory authority for these revisions were 
incorporated by reference into the rule. These materials are available for review by the public during 
normal working hours at the Office of External Affairs, Department of Human Services. 
Revisions to the Child Mental Health Treatment Act rules, Sections 20.000 through 20.800, were final 
adoption following publication on 2/1/2008 by the State Board of Human Services, with an effective date 
of 4/1/2008 (Rule-making# 07-10-11-1). Statement of Basis and Purpose, Regulatory Analysis, and 
specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the rule. These 
materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours at the Colorado Department 
of Human Services, Boards and Commissions Division, State Board Administration. 
Rules regarding the child mental health treatment act, as originally found in 2 CCR 502-3, are repealed in 
their entirety and rewritten as a consolidation of Behavioral Health rules in 2 CCR 502-1 as adopted 
following publication at the 9/6/2013 State Board of Human Services meeting, with an effective date of 
11/1/2013 (Rule-making# 13-3-4-1). Statement of Basis and Purpose, fiscal impact, and specific statutory 
authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the rule. These materials are available 
for review by the public during normal working hours at the Colorado Department of Human Services, 
Office of Enterprise Partnerships, Division of Boards and Commissions, State Board Administration. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Rules 20.100 – 20.800 eff. 04/01/2008. 
Entire rule repealed eff. 11/01/2013. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado
