---
id: "2_CCR_607-1"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "2 CCR 607-1"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=10161&fileName=2%20CCR%20607-1&type=pdf"
---

#### 2_CCR_607-1. 2 CCR 607-1

1 
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION 
Clean Transit Enterprise 
RULES GOVERNING CLEAN TRANSIT ENTERPRISE PROCESSES AND FEES 
2 CCR 607-1 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
1.00 
Statement of Basis and Purpose and Authority 
The Clean Transit Enterprise is authorized by C.R.S. § 43-4-1203(6)(g) to promulgate rules setting the 
amount of the Clean Transit Retail Delivery Fee at or below maximum levels contained in C.R.S. § 43-4-
1203(7) and to govern the process by which the Enterprise accepts applications for, awards, and 
oversees grants, loans, and rebates pursuant to C.R.S. § 43-4-1203(8). 
SB21-260 Sustainability of the Transportation System created new sources of dedicated funding and new 
state enterprises intended to preserve, improve, and expand existing transportation infrastructure, 
develop the modernized infrastructure needed to support the widespread adoption of Electric Motor 
Vehicles, and mitigate environmental and health impacts of transportation system use. To accomplish 
these goals, the legislation established a Clean Transit Enterprise (CTE), an enterprise and government 
owned business within the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) for the purpose of collecting 
fee revenue to reduce or mitigate the adverse impacts of air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions 
produced by gas and diesel-powered motor vehicles used for Retail Deliveries. CTE will support the 
adoption of Electric Motor Vehicles for Transit. The Enterprise is a Type 1 transfer agency and as such 
the Legislature specifically vested the Enterprise with the authority to promulgate rules to set the amount 
of the required Clean Transit Retail Delivery Fee and to govern the process by which the Enterprise 
accepts applications for, awards, and oversees grants, loans, and rebates. Per statute, the Enterprise can 
set a maximum fee of $0.03 per Retail Delivery. The fee delineated in the rule mirrors the fee amount set 
in C.R.S. § 43-4-1203. 
The Enterprise shall notify the Department of Revenue (DOR) of the amount of the Clean Transit Retail 
Delivery Fee to be collected for Retail Deliveries of Tangible Personal Property purchased during each 
state fiscal year no later than March 15 of the calendar year in which the state fiscal year begins. CDOT 
will work with DOR to determine the maximum fee amount that may be imposed, which shall be the 
maximum amount for the prior state fiscal year adjusted for inflation. 
2.00 
Definitions  
2.1 
“Colorado Department of Transportation Division of Transit and Rail” or “CDOT Division of Transit 
and Rail” means the division within the Colorado Department of Transportation responsible for 
planning, developing, operating, and integrating Transit and rail into the statewide transportation 
system. 
2.2 
“Compressed Natural Gas Motor Vehicle” means a vehicle that is powered by an engine fueled 
by methane that has been compressed and stored onboard at a pressure up to 3,000 pounds per 
square inch, also known as compressed natural gas. 
 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 607-1 
Clean Transit Enterprise 
 
2 
2.3 
“Disproportionately Impacted Community” means a community that is in a census block group, as 
determined in accordance with the most recent United States decennial census, where the 
proportion of households that are low income is greater than forty percent, the proportion of 
households that identify as minority is greater than forty percent, or the proportion of households 
that are housing cost-burdened is greater than forty percent, as defined in C.R.S. § 43-4-1202(5). 
2.4 
“Electric Motor Vehicle” means a vehicle that uses a battery to store energy that powers the 
motor, including: 
2.4.1 
A Battery Electric Motor Vehicle powered exclusively by a rechargeable battery pack that 
can be recharged by being plugged into an external source of electricity and that has no 
secondary source of propulsion. 
2.4.2 
A Hydrogen Fuel Cell Motor Vehicle powered by electricity produced from a fuel cell that 
uses hydrogen gas as fuel. 
2.4.3  
A Plug-in Hybrid Electric Motor Vehicle powered by both a rechargeable battery pack that 
can be charged by being plugged into an external source of electricity and a secondary 
source of propulsion such as an internal combustion engine. 
2.5 
“Recovered Methane” means any of the following if the Air Pollution Control Division determines 
them to provide a net reduction in greenhouse gas emissions: 
2.5.1 
Biomethane; 
2.5.2 
Methane derived from municipal solid waste, biomass pyrolysis or enzymatic biomass, or 
wastewater treatment; and 
2.5.3 
Coal mine methane, as defined in C.R.S. § 40-2-124(1)(a)(II). 
2.6 
“Retail Delivery” means a retail sale of Tangible Personal Property by a retailer for delivery by a 
motor vehicle owned or operated by the retailer or any other person to the purchaser at a location 
in the state, which sale includes at least one item of Tangible Personal Property that is subject to 
taxation under Article 26 of Title 39. Each such retail sale is a single Retail Delivery regardless of 
the number of shipments necessary to deliver the items of Tangible Personal Property 
purchased. 
2.7 
“Tangible Personal Property” means all goods, wares, merchandise, products and commodities, 
and all tangible or corporeal things and substances which are dealt in, capable of being 
possessed and exchanged, except newspapers excluded by law. Tangible property does not 
include: 
2.7.1 
Real property, such as land or buildings, nor Tangible Personal Property that loses its 
identity when it becomes an integral and inseparable part of the realty, and is removable 
only with substantial damage to the premises. Property severed from real estate 
becomes Tangible Personal Property. 
2.7.2 
Intangible personal property constituting mere rights of action and having no intrinsic 
value, such as contracts, deeds, mortgages, stocks, bonds, certificates of deposit or 
memberships, or uncancelled United States postage or revenue stamps sold for postage 
or revenue purposes. 
2.7.3 
Water in pipes, conduits, ditches or reservoirs, but does include water in bottles, wagons, 
tanks or other containers.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 607-1 
Clean Transit Enterprise 
 
3 
2.7.4 
Computer software that does not meet the criteria enumerated in C.R.S. § 39-26-
102(15(c). 
2.7.5 
An advertising supplement included in a newspaper. 
2.7.6 
The method of delivery does not impact the definition of Tangible Personal Property as 
defined in C.R.S. § 39-26-102(15).  
2.8 
“Transit” means a coordinated system of Transit modes providing transportation use by the 
general public, as defined in C.R.S. § 43-1-102(4). 
2.9 
“Transit Agency” means an organization that provides Transit services to the general public or a 
segment of the public defined by age, disability, or low income. 
3.00 
Fees 
3.1 
Effective July 1, 2022, the Enterprise shall impose a Clean Transit Retail Delivery Fee of three 
cents per Retail Delivery of Tangible Personal Property. 
3.2 
Starting in 2023, CDOT will work with the Department of Revenue (DOR) to determine the 
maximum fee amount that may be imposed, which shall be the maximum amount for the prior 
state fiscal year adjusted for inflation. 
3.3 
Starting in 2023, the Enterprise shall notify DOR of the amount of the Clean Transit Retail 
Delivery Fee to be collected for Retail Deliveries of Tangible Personal Property purchased during 
each state fiscal year no later than March 15 of the calendar year in which the state fiscal year 
begins. 
4.00 
Process for Awarding and Overseeing Enterprise Grants, Loans, and Rebates 
4.1 
The selection of grant, loan, and rebate recipients will be on a competitive basis as a part of 
regular calls for Transit grant applications and will be based on criteria established by the 
Enterprise and posted on its website no fewer than 60 days in advance of any deadlines for the 
submission of applications for grants, loans, and rebates. 
4.1.1 
CDOT Division of Transit and Rail (DTR) staff will consult with the Clean Transit 
Enterprise Board to determine the overall available funding amount, project selection 
criteria, required match levels, and other programmatic details in advance of any notice of 
funding availability.  
4.1.2 
A notice of funding availability for grants, loans, and rebates will be posted no fewer than 
60 days prior to the application deadline. 
4.1.3 
Eligible applicants will be any organization considered to be a Transit Agency as defined 
in these Rules. 
4.1.4 
Applications will be assessed for eligibility and scored based on their support for the 
business purpose of the Clean Transit Enterprise by a review panel. Additional 
consideration will be given in the evaluation process to those Transit Agencies located 
within or providing service to Disproportionately Impacted Communities. 
4.1.5 
The applicant must include evidence that the proposed project(s) will support the 
business purpose of the Clean Transit Enterprise and will be used for one or more of the 
following purposes by:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 607-1 
Clean Transit Enterprise 
 
4 
4.1.5.1 Supporting the replacement of existing gasoline and diesel transit vehicles with 
Electric Motor Vehicles, including motor vehicles that originally were powered 
exclusively by internal combustion engines but have been converted into Electric 
Motor Vehicles. If Electric Motor Vehicles are not practically available, they may 
be replaced by Compressed Natural Gas Motor Vehicles, if at least ninety 
percent of the fuel for the Compressed Natural Gas Motor Vehicles will be 
Recovered Methane; 
4.1.5.2 Providing the associated charging infrastructure for Electric Motor Vehicles in the 
Transit fleet; 
4.1.5.3 Supporting facility modifications that allow for the safe operation and 
maintenance of Electric Motor Vehicles; or 
4.1.5.4 Funding planning studies that enable Transit Agencies to plan for Transit vehicle 
electrification. 
4.2 
CDOT staff will present a list of applications recommended for funding to the Clean Transit 
Enterprise Board for final approval. 
4.3 
Applicants will be notified of the results of their project proposal(s) within 90 days of the 
application deadline. 
4.4 
The CDOT Division of Transit & Rail Transit Programming Unit will be the responsible entity for 
overseeing any grants, loans, and rebates provided by the Enterprise. 
5.00 
Declaratory Orders 
The Enterprise board may, at its discretion, entertain petitions for declaratory orders pursuant to C.R.S. § 
24-4-105(11). 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 06/14/2022.
