---
id: "2_CCR_503-1"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "2 CCR 503-1"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=5691&fileName=2%20CCR%20503-1&type=pdf"
---

#### 2_CCR_503-1. 2 CCR 503-1

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES 
Division for Developmental Disabilities (Volume 16) 
DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES SERVICES (VOLUME 16) - Repealed eff. 05/15/2014 
2 CCR 503-1 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_______________________________________________________________________________ 
STATEMENT OF BASIS AND PURPOSE, REGULATORY ANALYSIS, AND SPECIFIC STATUTORY 
AUTHORITY 
Rewrite of all sections to the Developmental Disabilities Services rules and regulations were final 
adoption following publication at the 8/4/95 Executive Director rule-making session, with an effective date 
of 10/1/95 (CSPR# 95-5-5-1). Statement of Basis Purpose and specific statutory authority for these 
revisions were incorporated by reference into the rule. These materials are available for review by the 
public during normal working hours at the Office of External Affairs, Department of Human Services. 
Revision to Section 1.2, "Definitions" of the Developmental Disabilities Services rules and regulations 
were final adoption following publication at the 12/1/95 Executive Director rule-making session, with an 
effective date of 2/1/96 (CSPR# 95-9-27-1). Statement of Basis Purpose and specific statutory authority 
for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the rule. These materials are available for review 
by the public during normal working hours at the Office of External Affairs, Department of Human 
Services. 
Rewrite of all sections to the Developmental Disabilities Services rules and regulations were final 
adoption following publication at the 12/1/2000 State Board of Human Services rule-making session, with 
an effective date of 2/1/2001 (CSPR# 00-7-19-1). Statement of Basis Purpose and specific statutory 
authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the rule. These materials are available 
for review by the public during normal working hours at the Colorado Department of Human Services, 
Office Performance Improvement, Boards and Commissions Division, State Board Administration. 
Addition of section 16.131 was adopted as emergency at the 6/4/2004 State Board of Human Services 
rule-making session, with an effective date of 6/4/2004 (Rule-making# 03-6-25-1). Statement of Basis 
Purpose and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the rule. 
These materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours at the Colorado 
Department of Human Services, Office Performance Improvement, Boards and Commissions Division, 
State Board Administration. 
Addition of section 16.131 was final adoption of emergency rules at the 7/9/2004 State Board of Human 
Services rule-making session, with an effective date of 6/4/2004 (Rule-making# 03-6-25-1). Statement of 
Basis Purpose and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the 
rule. These materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours at the Colorado 
Department of Human Services, Office Performance Improvement, Boards and Commissions Division, 
State Board Administration. 
Revision to section 16.440 were final adoption following publication at the 12/3/2004 State Board of 
Human Services rule-making session, with an effective date of 2/1/2005 (Rule-making# 04-8-26-1). 
Statement of Basis Purpose and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by 
reference into the rule. These materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours 
at the Colorado Department of Human Services, Office Performance Improvement, Boards and 
Commissions Division, State Board Administration. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
2 
Addition of Section 16.714 was adopted on an emergency basis at the 12/7/2007 State Board of Human 
Services rule-making session, with an effective date of 1/1/2008 (Rule-making# 07-10-23-1). Statement of 
Basis Purpose and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the 
rule. These materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours at the Colorado 
Department of Human Services, Office Human Resources, Compliance and Regulatory Affairs, Boards 
and Commissions Division, State Board Administration. 
Revisions to Section 16.714 were final (permanent) adoption of emergency rules at the 1/11/2008 State 
Board of Human Services rule-making session, with an effective date of 1/11/2008 (Rule-making# 07-10-
23-1). Statement of Basis Purpose and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated 
by reference into the rule. These materials are available for review by the public during normal working 
hours at the Colorado Department of Human Services, Office Human Resources, Compliance and 
Regulatory Affairs, Boards and Commissions Division, State Board Administration. 
Revision of Section 16.120 was adopted following publication at the 8/1/2008 State Board of Human 
Services rule-making session, with an effective date of 10/1/2008 (Rule-making# 08-5-7-1). Statement of 
Basis Purpose and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the 
rule. These materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours at the Colorado 
Department of Human Services, Office Human Resources, Compliance and Regulatory Affairs, Boards 
and Commissions Division, State Board Administration. 
Revisions of Sections 16.120 and 16.700-16.710, deletion of Sections 16.711-6.714, and addition of 
Sections 16.900-16.994 were adopted following publication at the 7/8/2011 State Board of Human 
Services rule-making session, with an effective date of 9/1/2011 (Rule-making# 11-4-8-1). Statement of 
Basis Purpose and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the 
rule. These materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours at the Colorado 
Department of Human Services, Office Employment and Regulatory Affairs, Division of Boards and 
Commissions, State Board Administration. 
Revision of Section 16.120 and addition of Sections 16.650-16.654 were adopted following publication at 
the 12/2/2011 State Board of Human Services rule-making session, with an effective date of 2/1/2012 
(Rule-making# 11-7-29-1). Statement of Basis Purpose and specific statutory authority for these revisions 
were incorporated by reference into the rule. These materials are available for review by the public during 
normal working hours at the Colorado Department of Human Services, Office of Enterprise Partnerships, 
Division of Boards and Commissions, State Board Administration. 
Revisions and repeals of Sections 16.223, 16.225, 16.229, 16.231-16.233, 16.241, 16.323, 16.334, 
16.613-16.614, 16.627, and 16.913 were final adoption following publication at the 4/6/2012 State Board 
of Human Services rule-making session, with an effective date of 6/1/2012 (Rule-making#12-1-31-1). 
Statement of Basis Purpose and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by 
reference into the rule. These materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours 
at the Colorado Department of Human Services, Office of Enterprise Partnerships, Division of Boards and 
Commissions, State Board Administration. 
Section 16.120 was revised, and Sections 16.900 through 16.994 were deleted and moved to new 
Section 7.900, et seq. (12 CCR 2509-10) per final adoption following publication at the 5/3/2013 State 
Board of Human Services rule-making session, with an effective date of 7/1/2013 (Rule-making#13-1-10-
1). Statement of Basis Purpose and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by 
reference into the rule. These materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours 
at the Colorado Department of Human Services, Office of Enterprise Partnerships, Division of Boards and 
Commissions, State Board Administration. 
Revisions of Sections 16.120, 16.210, 16.420, and 16.480 were final adoption following publication at the 
6/7/2013 State Board of Human Services rule-making session, with an effective date of 8/1/2013 (Rule-
making#12-12-12-1). Statement of Basis Purpose and specific statutory authority for these revisions were 
incorporated by reference into the rule. These materials are available for review by the public during

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
3 
normal working hours at the Colorado Department of Human Services, Office of Enterprise Partnerships, 
Division of Boards and Commissions, State Board Administration. 
Repeal of Section 16.131 was final adoption following publication at the 9/6/2013 State Board of Human 
Services rule-making session, with an effective date of 11/1/2013 (Rule-making#13-7-12-1). Statement of 
Basis Purpose and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the 
rule. These materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours at the Colorado 
Department of Human Services, Office of Enterprise Partnerships, Division of Boards and Commissions, 
State Board Administration. 
Repeal of 2 CCR 503-1 in it’s entirety (Sections 16.100 through 16.800) was final adoption following 
publication at the 3/7/2014 State Board of Human Services rule-making session, with an effective date of 
5/15/2014 (Rule-making#13-12-4-1). Statement of Basis Purpose and specific statutory authority for 
these revisions were incorporated by reference into the rule. These materials are available for review by 
the public during normal working hours at the Colorado Department of Human Services, Office of 
Enterprise Partnerships, Division of Boards and Commissions, State Board Administration. 
16.100 (None) 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Emer. Rule 16.714 eff. 01/01/2008. 
Rule 16.714 eff. 03/01/2008. 
Rule 16.120 eff. 10/01/2008. 
Rules 16.120, 16.710 – 16.714, 16.900, SB&P eff. 09/01/2011. 
Rules SB&P, 16.120, 16.650 - 16.654 eff. 02/01/2012. 
Rules SB&P, 16.231-233, 16.241, 16.613, 16.913 eff. 06/01/2012; Repealed Rules 16.223, 16.225, 
16.229, 16.323, 16.334, 16.627 eff. 06/01/2012. 
Rule 16.653 eff. 01/01/2013. 
Rules SB&P, 16.120 eff. 07/01/2013; rule 16.900 repealed eff. 07/01/2013. 
Rules SB&P, 16.120, 16.210, 16.420, 16.480 eff. 08/01/2013. 
Rule SB&P eff. 11/01/2013; rule 16.131 repealed eff. 11/01/2013. 
Entire rule repealed eff. 05/15/2014.
