---
id: "2_CCR_502-4"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "2 CCR 502-4"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=5426&fileName=2%20CCR%20502-4&type=pdf"
---

#### 2_CCR_502-4. 2 CCR 502-4

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES 
Behavioral Health 
PUBLIC MENTAL HEALTH SYSTEM - Repealed eff. 11/01/2013 
2 CCR 502-4 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
STATEMENT OF BASIS AND PURPOSE 
Addition of rules concerning Competency Evaluations in Criminal Cases, Sections 21.900 through 
21.950, were final adoption following publication on 8/6/2010 by the State Board of Human Services, with 
an effective date of 10/1/2010 (Rule-making# 09-6-10-1). Statement of Basis and Purpose, Regulatory 
Analysis, and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the rule. 
These materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours at the Colorado 
Department of Human Services, Division of Boards and Commissions, State Board Administration. 
Rules regarding public mental health system/competency evaluations in criminal cases, as originally 
found in 2 CCR 502-4, are repealed in their entirety and rewritten as a consolidation of Behavioral Health 
rules in 2 CCR 502-1 as adopted following publication at the 9/6/2013 State Board of Human Services 
meeting, with an effective date of 11/1/2013 (Rule-making# 13-3-4-1). Statement of Basis and Purpose, 
fiscal impact, and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the 
rule. These materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours at the Colorado 
Department of Human Services, Office of Enterprise Partnerships, Division of Boards and Commissions, 
State Board Administration. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 10/01/2010. 
Entire rule repealed eff. 11/01/2013. 
Annotations 
Rule 21.920 D (adopted 08/06/2010) was not extended by Senate Bill 11-078 and therefore expired 
05/15/2011. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado
