---
id: "2_CCR_601-20"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "2 CCR 601-20"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=4642&fileName=2%20CCR%20601-20&type=pdf"
---

#### 2_CCR_601-20. 2 CCR 601-20

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION 
Transportation Commission 
RULES GOVERNING AUTHORIZED SERVICE VEHICLES ON PUBLIC STREETS, HIGHWAYS, AND 
ROADWAYS 
2 CCR 601-20 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Statement of Basis and Purpose and Statutory Authority 
These rules are promulgated pursuant to the authority granted to the Department of Transportation 
pursuant to § 42-4-214(5) C.R.S. (2011). 
The purpose of these amendments is to update existing rules in conformance with current practice and 
statute concerning Authorized Service Vehicles. Section 42-4-214 (5) C.R.S. (2011) authorizes the 
Department of Transportation to promulgate rules with regard to Authorized Service Vehicles. 
These rules apply to all Authorized Service Vehicles when operating in Colorado on or along a highway, 
roadway or public street. 
1.00  Definitions 
1.01  "Authorized Emergency Vehicle" shall mean such vehicles of the fire department, police vehicles, 
ambulances, and other special-purpose vehicles as are publicly owned and operated by or for a 
government agency to protect and preserve life and property in accordance with state laws 
regulating emergency vehicles; said term also means the following if equipped and operated as 
emergency vehicles in the manner prescribed by state law: 
(a)  Privately owned vehicles as are designated by the state motor vehicle licensing agency 
necessary to the preservation of life and property; or 
(b)  Privately owned tow trucks approved by the public utilities commission to respond to vehicle 
emergencies.  See § 42-1-102(6) C.R.S. (2011). 
1.02  "Authorized Service Vehicle" shall mean such highway or traffic maintenance vehicle as is publicly 
owned and operated on a highway by or for a governmental agency the function of which requires 
the use of service vehicle warning lights as prescribed by state law and such other vehicles 
having a public service function, including, but not limited to, public utility vehicles and tow trucks, 
as determined by the Department of Transportation under § 42-4-214(5) C.R.S. (2011). Some 
vehicles may be designated as both an Authorized Emergency Vehicle and an Authorized 
Service Vehicle.  See § 42-1-102(7) C.R.S. (2011). 
1.03  "Department" shall mean the Department of Transportation created by §43-1-102(2) C.R.S. (2011). 
2.00  Authority to Designate as Authorized Service Vehicle 
2.01  The Department's Chief Engineer or his/her designee is authorized to determine which vehicles 
should be designated as Authorized Service Vehicles. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
2 
2.02  The Chief Engineer or his/her designee shall make the determination upon the advice and 
recommendation of the Department’s Maintenance and Operations Branch and Staff Traffic 
Branch. 
2.03  The Department may designate as Authorized Service Vehicles both publicly owned and operated 
or privately owned vehicles having a public service function, including public service vehicles and 
tow trucks. 
2.04  The Department shall determine which types of vehicles render an essential public service when 
operating on or along a roadway and warrant designation as Authorized Service Vehicles under 
specified conditions, including, without limitation, vehicles that sell or apply chains or other 
equipment to motor vehicles necessary to enable compliance with § 42-4-106 C.R.S. (2011).  
See   § 42-4-215(5) C.R.S. (2011). 
2.05  Local government entities shall have the authority to designate Authorized Service Vehicles within 
their jurisdictions. 
3.00  Types of Vehicles Which May be Designated an Authorized Service Vehicle 
3.01  Authorized Service Vehicles may include, but not be limited to: 
3.01.1  Any vehicle designated as an Authorized Service Vehicle by the Department; 
3.01.2 Vehicle Recovery Units (including commercially operated vehicles and identified by 
insignia or equipment); 
3.01.3  Pilot Escort vehicles escorting mobile homes, oversize equipment or wide loads as 
defined in §42-4-510 and 511C.R.S.; 
3.01.4  Public utility vehicles operated by companies described in § 39-4-101, C.R.S. such as 
those providing power, light, telephone and sanitation services; 
3.01.5  Tow trucks or wreckers; 
3.01.6  Tree service equipment; or 
3.01.7  Land Surveyor Vehicles 
4.00  Requirements for Warning Lights 
4.01  Every Authorized Service Vehicle shall, in addition to any other required equipment, be equipped 
with: 
4.01.1  One or more warning lamps mounted as high as possible, capable of displaying in all 
directions one or more flashing, oscillating, or rotating yellow lights. 
4.01.2  Only yellow and white lamps and no other color or combination of colors shall be used as 
a warning lamp on an Authorized Service Vehicle. White lamps may be used on a light 
bar to heighten the visibility of the yellow lamps. 
4.01.3  With regard to 7.01.1 above, a snowplow designated as an Authorized Service Vehicle 
operated by a general purpose government may also be equipped with and use no more 
than two flashing, oscillating, or rotating blue lights as warning lamps.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
3 
4.01.4  Lighted directional signs used by police and highway departments to direct or control 
traffic need not be visible except to the front or rear. 
4.01.5  Lights shall have sufficient intensity to be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight. 
4.02  Only Authorized Emergency Vehicles shall be authorized to use a red light or lights alone or in 
combination with blue, white, or blue in combination with white. 
4.03  Authorized Service Vehicles determined to operate also as Authorized Emergency Vehicles shall be 
equipped to comply with signal requirements for Authorized Emergency Vehicles. 
5.00  Penalties 
5.01  Any person who violates any provision of these rules commits a class B traffic infraction. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor's Notes 
History 
Entire rule recodified from 2 CCR 602-2 eff. 04/14/2012.
