---
id: "2_CCR_601-25"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "2 CCR 601-25"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=11532&fileName=2%20CCR%20601-25&type=pdf"
---

#### 2_CCR_601-25. 2 CCR 601-25

1 
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION 
Executive Director 
RULES GOVERNING THE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMITS FOR THE 
TRANSPORTATION OF HAZARDOUS AND NUCLEAR MATERIALS BY MOTOR VEHICLE 
2 CCR 601-25 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Chapter 1: 
Statutory Basis, Purpose, and Authority 
1.1. 
Statutory Basis and Purpose 
Senate Bill 20-118 was enacted into law transferring the function of issuing permits for the 
transportation of hazardous and nuclear materials by motor vehicle from the Public Utilities 
Commission to the Colorado Department of Transportation. The purpose of these Rules is to 
establish the specific procedures for the suspension or revocation of Permits pursuant to sections 
24-4-104 and 24-4-105, C.R.S. 
1.2. 
Statutory Authority 
The specific authority for the Executive Director of the Colorado Department of Transportation 
(“the Department”) to establish these Rules is set forth in sections 43-1-105(6) and 42-20-205, 
C.R.S. 
Chapter 2: 
Definitions 
2.1. 
Department: The Department of Transportation has the same meaning as defined pursuant to 
section 43-1-103, C.R.S. 
2.2. 
State Patrol Chief Rules: The Rules and Regulations concerning the Permitting, Routing & 
Transportation of Hazardous and Nuclear Materials and the Intrastate Transportation of 
Agricultural Products in the state of Colorado as set forth in 8 CCR 1507-25. 
2.3. 
Hazardous Materials Carrier: means a motor carrier that transports hazardous materials as 
defined in section 42-20-103(3), C.R.S. and is subject to the permitting requirements of the 
Department, as set forth in section 42-20-201, C.R.S., et seq. 
2.4. 
Nuclear Materials Carrier: means a motor carrier that transports nuclear materials as defined in 
section 42-20-402(3), C.R.S and subject to permitting requirements through the Department as 
set forth in section 42-20-501, C.R.S., et seq. 
2.5. 
Permit: means a Permit issued by the Department to a Hazardous Materials Carrier pursuant to 
section 42-20-201, C.R.S., et. seq. or to a Nuclear Materials Carrier pursuant to 42-20-501, 
C.R.S., et. seq. 
 
 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-25 
Department of Transportation Executive Director 
 
2 
Chapter 3: 
Suspension or Revocation of Permits 
3.1. 
Track and Monitor Permit Violations 
The Department will track and monitor violations and civil penalties reported to the Department by 
the Colorado State Patrol, including data reported to the Department that establish patterns of 
noncompliance. 
3.2. 
Grounds for Suspension and Revocation of a Permit 
A. 
Hazardous Materials Carriers 
Pursuant to section 42-20-205, C.R.S., the Department may suspend or revoke a Permit 
of a Hazardous Materials Carrier for the following reasons: 
1. 
Lack of financial responsibility or failure to maintain liability insurance pursuant to 
sections 42-20-202(2)(a) and (3)(a), C.R.S. and as set forth in the State Patrol 
Chief Rules; 
2. 
Failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the Permit pursuant to section 
42-20-204(3), C.R.S. and as set forth in the State Patrol Chief Rules; 
3. 
Failure to pay a civil penalty assessed pursuant to section 42-20-204, C.R.S.; or 
4. 
Continued violations of the State Patrol Chief Rules and these Rules. 
B. 
Nuclear Materials Carriers 
Pursuant to section 42-20-506, C.R.S., the Department may suspend or revoke a Permit 
of a Nuclear Materials Carrier for the following reasons: 
1. 
Failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the Permit; 
2. 
Misrepresentation of information in the Permit application; 
3. 
Failure to pay a civil penalty assessed pursuant to section 42-20-406, C.R.S.; or 
4. 
Failure to comply with the State Patrol Chief Rules and these Rules. 
3.3. 
Automatic and Immediate Revocation of a Permit of a Hazardous Materials Carrier for Lack of 
Financial Responsibility or Failure to Maintain Insurance Coverage 
A. 
Whenever the Department’s records indicate that a Hazardous Materials Carrier’s liability 
insurance or surety bond coverage is canceled and the Department has no proof on file 
indicating replacement coverage as set forth in subparagraph A.1. of Rule 3.2., the 
Permit is automatically revoked pursuant to section 42-20-202(2)(a), C.R.S. 
B. 
The Department will automatically notify the Hazardous Materials Carrier that: 
1. 
The Department is in receipt of the insurance or surety cancellation and the 
effective date of the cancellation; and 
2. 
The Hazardous Materials Carrier will not conduct operations under any of its 
Permits after the coverage cancellation date.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-25 
Department of Transportation Executive Director 
 
3 
C. 
Upon proof of coverage, the Permit may be reinstated. 
3.4. 
Suspension and Revocation of a Permit 
A. 
Pursuant to section 24-4-104, C.R.S., the Department will notify the Hazardous Materials 
Carrier or Nuclear Materials Carrier in writing of the objective facts or conduct that may 
warrant the suspension or revocation as set forth in Rule 3.2. and afforded the 
Hazardous Materials Carrier or Nuclear Materials Carrier opportunity to submit written 
data, views, and arguments with respect to the facts or conduct, and give the Hazardous 
Materials Carrier or Nuclear Materials Carrier a reasonable opportunity to comply with all 
lawful requirements. 
B. 
Pursuant to section 24-4-104(10), C.R.S., written notice of the suspension or revocation 
of a Permit and the grounds for such action will be served promptly on the Hazardous 
Materials Carrier or Nuclear Materials Carrier personally or by mailing by first class to the 
last address furnished to the Department by the Hazardous Materials Carrier or Nuclear 
Materials Carrier. The notice will be sent on the same day via an electronic notification to 
the Hazardous Materials Carrier’s or Nuclear Materials Carrier’s last known email 
address. 
C. 
If requested by the Hazardous Materials Carrier or Nuclear Materials Carrier, the 
Department will hold a hearing as set forth in Chapter 4 of these Rules for the suspension 
or revocation of a Permit. 
3.5. 
Summary Suspension for Endangering Public Health, Safety and Welfare 
A. 
The Department may summarily suspend a Permit pursuant to section 24-4-104(4), 
C.R.S. 
B. 
When the Department has objective and reasonable grounds to believe that a Hazardous 
Materials Carrier or Nuclear Materials Carrier has willfully and deliberately violated these 
Rules, the State Patrol Chief Rules, or any applicable statutes, based on a reasonable 
ascertainment of the underlying facts on which this action is based, or that the public 
health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency action, the Department may 
issue a letter incorporating such findings that summarily suspends the Permit. 
C. 
“Willful and deliberate,” for purposes of this Rule, means a deliberate, voluntary, or 
intentional action or inaction that is in violation of the applicable rules, statutes, or any 
other lawful order. Willful and deliberate acts include: the same or similar action for which 
a person has already been warned; reckless or dangerous action; action done without 
regard to the consequences or the rights or safety of others; fraudulent action; conduct 
without the proper authority or engaging another person who performs without the proper 
authority. 
D. 
The letter of summary suspension by the Department and the notice of hearing will be 
served on the Hazardous Materials Carrier or Nuclear Materials Carrier along with 
supporting information. 
E. 
The Executive Director or Executive Director’s designee pursuant to section 43-1-105(6), 
C.R.S. or an Administrative Law Judge will promptly hold a hearing no later than ten (10) 
days after the Department’s letter of summary suspension was served on the Hazardous 
Materials Carrier or Nuclear Materials Carrier. The issuance of the decision or initial 
decision will be expedited after hearing.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-25 
Department of Transportation Executive Director 
 
4 
Chapter 4: 
Hearings and Appeals regarding the Suspension or Revocation of a Permit 
4.1. 
All hearings and appeals, which are required by law regarding the suspension or revocation of a 
Permit, will be requested, provided, and conducted pursuant to sections 24-4-104 and 24-4-105, 
C.R.S. 
4.2. 
Any hearing required by these Rules will be presided over by the Executive Director or Executive 
Director’s designee pursuant to section 43-1-105(6), C.R.S. or by an Administrative Law Judge 
appointed pursuant to Part 10 of Article 30 of Title 24, C.R.S. If a hearing is held before an 
Administrative Law Judge and if either party wishes to reverse or modify the initial decision of the 
Administrative Law Judge, then an appeal may be made to the Executive Director, or Executive 
Director’s designee, pursuant to sections 24-4-105 (14) and (15), C.R.S., within thirty (30) days 
after the date of service of the initial decision. The appeal must comply with the requirements of 
section 24-4-105, C.R.S. All appeals must be submitted to the Department. The address of the 
Department is: 
Colorado Department of Transportation: 
CDOT Headquarters 
Attn: Freight Office 
2829 W. Howard Pl. 
Denver, CO 80204 
Chapter 5: 
Declaratory Orders 
5.1. 
Pursuant to section 24-4-105(11), C.R.S., the Department may entertain, in its sole discretion, 
petitions for declaratory orders concerning the suspension and revocation of Permits. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule emer. rule eff. 01/04/2021. 
Entire rule eff. 04/30/2021.
