---
id: "2_CCR_406-1"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "100 - DEFINITIONS"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12468&fileName=2%20CCR%20406-1&type=pdf"
---

#### 2_CCR_406-1. 100 - DEFINITIONS

1 
DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
CHAPTER W-1 - FISHING 
2 CCR 406-1 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
ARTICLE I 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
#100 - DEFINITIONS 
See also 33-1-102, C.R.S and Chapter 0 of these regulations for other applicable 
definitions. 
A. 
“Artificial flies and lures” means devices made entirely of, or a combination of, 
natural or synthetic non-edible, non-scented (regardless if the scent is added in 
the manufacturing process or applied afterward), materials such as wood, plastic, 
silicone, rubber, epoxy, glass, hair, metal, feathers, or fiber, designed to attract 
fish. This definition does not include anything defined as bait in #100.B below. 
B. 
“Bait” means any hand-moldable material designed to attract fish by the sense 
of taste or smell; those devices to which scents or smell attractants have been 
added or externally applied (regardless if the scent is added in the manufacturing 
process or applied afterward); scented manufactured fish eggs and traditional 
organic baits, including but not limited to worms, grubs, crickets, leeches, dough 
baits or stink baits, insects, crayfish, human food, fish, fish parts or fish eggs. 
C. 
“Chumming” means placing fish, parts of fish, or other material upon which fish 
might feed in the waters of this state for the purpose of attracting fish to a 
particular area in order that they might be taken, but such term shall not include 
fishing with baited hooks or live traps. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
2 
D. 
“Game fish” means all species of fish except unregulated species, prohibited 
nongame, endangered and threatened species, which currently exist or may be 
introduced into the state and which are classified as game fish by the 
Commission. This includes, but is not limited to brown, brook, cutthroat, golden, 
lake (mackinaw), and rainbow trout; cutbow (rainbow trout x cutthroat trout 
hybrids), splake (lake trout x brook trout hybrids), and tiger trout (brown trout x 
brook trout hybrids); arctic char; grayling; kokanee salmon; whitefish; sculpin; 
smallmouth, largemouth, spotted, striped, and white bass; wipers (striped bass x 
white bass hybrids); carp; bullhead, blue, channel, and flathead catfish; black and 
white crappie; drum; northern pike; tiger muskie; sacramento and yellow perch; 
sauger; saugeye (walleye x sauger hybrids); speckled dace; rainbow smelt; 
tench; walleye; bluegill; bluegill hybrids (bluegill x green sunfish); green, redear 
and pumpkin-seed sunfish; gizzard shad; longnose and white suckers; and 
minnows. 
E. 
“Float tube” means a floating device which suspends a single occupant in the 
water from the seat down and is not propelled by oars, paddles or motors. 
F. 
“Gig” means a barbed fork with one or more tines which is attached to a handle. 
G. 
“Jugs” means floats to which are attached a line and common hook. 
H. 
“Minnow” means all members of the families of fish classified Cyprinidae (which 
includes but is not limited to Carp, Chub, Dace, Fathead Minnow, Shiner, 
Stoneroller, and Tench) Cyprinodontidae (including but not limited to Killifish) and 
Clupeidae (Gizzard Shad), except those designated as nongame, threatened, or 
endangered in Chapter 10 of these regulations, or those designated as 
Unregulated Wildlife in Chapter 11 of these regulations. 
I. 
“Natural stream” means an existing stream course where water naturally flows 
regularly or intermittently for at least part of the year. Ditches or other water 
conveyance channels which are man-made are not considered natural streams. 
J. 
“Net” means seine, dip net, gill net, cast net, trap net, hoop net or similar 
devices used to take or as an aid in taking fish, amphibians or crustaceans. 
K. 
“Personally attended line” means a rod and line, hand line, or tip up that is 
used for fishing and which is under the personal control of a person who is in 
proximity to it. 
L. 
“Common hook” means any hook or multiple hooks having a common shank. 
All hooks attached to a manufactured artificial lure shall be considered a common 
hook. 
M. 
“Size” or “Length” means the total length of a fish with head and tail attached 
measured from the tip of the snout to the tip of the tail.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
3 
N. 
“Seining” means the capture of live fish with the use of a net that hangs 
vertically in the water and is used to enclose fish when its ends are pulled 
together, or are drawn ashore. 
O. 
“Snagging” means the taking of fish by snatching with hooks, gang hooks, 
artificial flies or lures, or similar devices where the fish is hooked in a part of the 
body other than the mouth. 
P. 
“Trotline” means a single, anchored line with a float at each end from which 
droplines are attached. 
#101 - SEASON DATES AND HOURS 
A. 
Except as otherwise provided in these regulations, all waters of the state shall be 
open to fishing using all manners of take day and night, year around. 
#102 - LICENSE AND STAMP REQUIREMENTS 
See also 33-6-107 C.R.S. for general fishing license requirements 
A. 
A valid commercial fishing license is required to take or possess bait fish, 
amphibians, or crustaceans for commercial purposes. 
1. 
Commercial fishing licenses shall be available from the Division at a cost 
of forty dollars ($40.00). Applications for licenses are available from the 
Division. Licenses issued by the Division can be restricted to specific 
waters, specific bag limits and times designated by the Division on the 
basis of the following criteria: 
a. 
Negative impacts on sport fishing opportunity. 
b. 
Effects of commercial harvest on populations of target species. 
c. 
Detrimental effects of transplanting a species outside its current 
range. 
d. 
Presence of threatened or endangered species and species of 
special concern. 
2. 
All commercial fishing license holders shall submit an annual report as 
specified on the commercial fishing license application to the Division 
within thirty (30) days of the expiration date of the license. 
3. 
All commercial fishing license holders shall be required to provide each 
purchaser of live fish with a written receipt stating the seller’s name, the 
date of sale, the species, and the number sold. 
4. 
The taking of mollusks listed in Chapter 10 is prohibited.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
4 
B. 
Free fishing dates - The following dates are open to fishing without a license or 
Habitat Stamp in all waters of the state: The first full weekend of the month of 
June. 
C. 
Second rod stamp - Any person may use one additional (second) personally 
attended line statewide when a second rod stamp is purchased, as identified on 
the user’s fishing license. 
1. 
Any person under 16 years of age who is not required to have a fishing 
license must have a second rod stamp with their signature in possession 
in order to use a second personally attended line. 
2 
Second rod stamps are not transferable to any other person, nor do they 
confer fishing privileges to any person other than the license-holder. 
3. 
A second rod stamp is not required when fishing with a trotline or jugs 
only. 
#103 - MANNER OF TAKE 
A. 
The following are legal methods of take for species listed in this chapter. Any 
method of take not listed herein shall be prohibited, except as otherwise provided 
by statute or these regulations: 
1. 
One personally attended line, except as otherwise authorized in these 
regulations. 
a. 
Each line shall have no more than 3 common hooks attached. 
2. 
Trotlines 
a. 
Trotlines may only be used on waters specified in regulation #108. 
b. 
No one may use more than one trotline. 
c. 
Trotlines shall be anchored, marked at each end by floats, be no 
more than 150 feet in length, have no more than 25 droplines, and 
shall be weighted to place the line a minimum of 3 feet beneath the 
surface of the water. 
d. 
There shall be no more than 3 barbed hooks on a common hook on 
each dropline. 
e. 
Trotlines shall be tagged with the user’s customer identification 
number and date set. If the user does not have a customer 
identification number, trotlines must be tagged with the user’s 
name.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
5 
f. 
All trotlines shall be personally checked at least once in each 24-
hour period. 
3. 
Jugs 
a. 
Jugs shall only be used only on waters specified in regulation #108. 
b. 
No one may use more than 10 jugs, each of which shall not have 
more than a single line with one common hook attached. 
c. 
Jugs shall be tagged with the user’s customer identification 
number. If the user does not have a customer identification number, 
jugs must be tagged with the user’s name. 
d. 
Jugs shall be personally checked at least once every hour. 
4. 
Underwater spearfishing, archery, slingbows and gigs 
a. 
Underwater spearfishing, archery, slingbows and gigs may be used 
statewide for the taking of carp and northern pike, except as 
otherwise prohibited by these regulations or land management 
agencies. East of the Continental Divide, gizzard shad, and white or 
long-nose suckers may also be taken, unless otherwise prohibited 
in regulation #108. Other game fish species may only be taken 
when authorized in regulation #108 for a specific water. 
b. 
The following additional restrictions apply to underwater 
spearfishing: 
1. 
CO2 guns or cartridge-powered spears are prohibited. 
2. 
Guns must be loaded and unloaded while the gun is 
submerged. 
3. 
Divers must stay within a radius of 100 feet of a float bearing 
the National Divers’ Symbol. 
4. 
Spears must be attached by a safety line. 
c. 
Archery and slingbows may be used for the taking of kokanee 
salmon during times and in locations otherwise open to snagging of 
salmon, as established in #108 of these regulations. 
d. 
Archery, slingbows and gigs may be used for the taking of bullfrogs. 
e. 
The following additional restrictions apply to fishing with archery 
hand-held bows and slingbows:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
6 
1. 
All archery hand-held bows and slingbows must have a reel, 
fishing line and arrow attached to the bow. 
2. 
All archery hand-held bows must have an arrow safety slide 
mechanism, which maintains the fishing line in front of the 
arrow rest at all times. 
5. 
Snagging 
a. 
Snagging shall be used for the taking of kokanee salmon only, and 
only where specifically authorized in regulation #108. 
b. 
Snagged fish species other than kokanee salmon must be returned 
to the water immediately upon catch. 
6. 
Seines and cast-nets 
a. 
Seines shall be used only for fish taken in accordance with 
regulation #104(H), the gilled form aquatic tiger salamander larvae, 
and crayfish; or when authorized for emergency salvage. 
b. 
Seines shall be made of one-fourth (1/4) inch or less non-metallic 
square mesh. 
c. 
Seines shall not exceed 20 feet in length by 4 feet in depth 
7. 
By hand or with the aid of dip nets 
a. 
Bullfrogs, crayfish, and the gilled form aquatic tiger salamander 
larvae may be taken by hand or with the aid of dip nets. 
b. 
Fish may be taken by hand or with the aid of dip nets or any other 
method approved by the Director, when emergency public salvage 
of fish has been approved in accordance with regulation #104(G). 
c. 
Hand held dip nets may be used for fish taken in accordance with 
regulation #104(H). 
8. 
Livetraps 
a. 
Cage or box traps, including set pots, shall be used only for the 
taking of crayfish, snapping turtles, and fish taken in accordance 
with regulation #104(H). All cage or box traps, including set pots, 
shall be tagged with the user’s customer identification number. If 
the user does not have a customer identification number, traps 
must be tagged with the user’s name. 
9. 
Artificial light

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
7 
a. 
Artificial light may be used as an aid in taking. 
10. 
Bait 
a. 
Bait may be used as an aid in taking, except by chumming, in 
accordance with regulation #104(H). 
#104 - SPECIAL CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS 
A. 
Any fish released upon catch must be released alive and into the same body of 
water from which it was taken. Transfer or transport of live fish is prohibited, 
except as otherwise permitted in the provisions of Article VII, #010 and Article I 
#104(H). 
B. 
When fishing through the ice, the following additional restrictions apply: 
1. 
Ice fishing holes shall not exceed 10 inches in diameter, or 10 inches on 
any side. 
2. 
All fires on the ice must be enclosed in a container. 
3. 
No litter may be left on the ice. 
4. 
On waters where only portable shelters are permitted, all ice fishing 
shelters must be removed from the ice at the end of the day. 
5. 
On waters where permanent ice fishing shelters are permitted; the name 
and customer identification number of the owner or user must be 
displayed on the outside, shore side, of the shelter, in legible, contrasting 
color letters at least 2 inches high. 
C. 
Only those persons designated by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service 
may take fish, amphibians, mollusks or crustaceans within the boundaries of any 
Federal fish hatchery or rearing unit. 
D. 
Molesting, disturbing, or damaging gill nets, traps, seines or trot-lines set by the 
Division is prohibited. 
E. 
Fishing may be prohibited as posted pending the adoption of water-specific 
regulations when necessary to: 
1. 
Protect threatened or endangered species. 
2. 
Protect spawning areas. 
3. 
Protect waters being used in Division research projects. 
4. 
Protect newly acquired access to fishing waters.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
8 
5. 
Protect the integrity of sport fish, native fish or other aquatic wildlife 
populations. 
F. 
Emergency Closure of Fishing Waters 
1. 
The Director may authorize emergency closure of fishing waters in the 
state for a period of up to 9 months when it is determined that 
environmental conditions in these waters are such that fishing could result 
in unacceptable levels of fish mortality. Such closures may be enacted 
when any one of the following criteria are met: 
a. 
Daily maximum water temperature exceeds 71 º F; 
b. 
Measured stream flows are 50% or less of the daily average flow; 
c. 
Fish condition is deteriorating such that fungus and other visible 
signs of deterioration and/or stress may be present; 
d. 
Daily minimum dissolved oxygen levels are below six (6) parts per 
million (ppm). 
e. 
When a natural or man-caused environmental event such as 
wildfire, mudslides, oil spills or other similar event has occurred, 
resulting in the need for recovery time or remedial action for a fish 
population 
When such determination has been made, public notice will be given, 
including posting at the site. 
G. 
Emergency Public Salvage of fish 
1. 
The Director may authorize emergency public salvage when substantial 
numbers of fish in waters of the state are found to be in imminent danger 
of being lost. Such loss is deemed to be imminent when the volume and 
depth of water, water temperature and/or oxygen content are such that 
fish cannot survive. Measurements shall be made of these criteria as a 
basis for making a judgment on the total loss of fish and when such loss 
will occur, and will include: 
a. 
Water storage levels in lakes, reservoirs, or ponds of less than 
twenty five (25) percent of total capacity or, 
b. 
River or stream flow essentially eliminated with only pools left 
standing or, 
c. 
Visual evidence of substantial numbers of sick or dying fish, or 
d. 
Reclamation projects.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
9 
2. 
When such determination has been made; public notice will be given, 
including posting at the site, that fish may be taken by hand or by dip net, 
or any other method authorized by the Director. When practical the 
Director shall exercise this authority within fourteen (14) days of receipt of 
the information or at such earlier time as the emergency necessitates. 
3. 
Numbers of fish to be salvaged and possessed by an individual shall be 
determined by Division personnel at the site. 
4. 
Emergency salvage shall be permitted only during daylight hours. 
H. 
Take, Possession and Use of Fish, Amphibians, and Crustaceans for bait, 
personal or commercial use 
1. 
The seining, netting, trapping, and dipping of fish is prohibited statewide in 
all natural streams, springs, all waters in Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder, 
Broomfield, Clear Creek, Denver, Douglas, Gilpin, Elbert, Jefferson, and 
Park counties, and all public standing waters in Rio Grande, Saguache, 
Conejos, Costilla, Alamosa, Mineral and Hinsdale counties in the Rio 
Grande drainage. 
a. 
Fish handled or produced on commercially licensed aquaculture 
facilities are exempt from this regulation. 
2. 
The only fish species allowed to be taken and used for personal use as 
bait (either alive or dead) by fishing, seining, netting, trapping, or dipping 
are minnows, bluegill, hybrid bluegill, carp, sunfish, gizzard shad, sculpin, 
white and longnose suckers, yellow perch and rainbow smelt. Statewide 
bag limits apply to sunfish, bluegill, hybrid bluegills and yellow perch. 
a. 
Restrictions on Live Fish Used as Bait. 
1. 
The collection, use, or possession of live fish for use as bait 
is prohibited in the following waters: 
a. 
All waters east of the Continental Divide above 7,000 
feet elevation 
b. 
The Arkansas River above Parkdale – Fremont and 
Chaffee counties 
c. 
Watson Lake - Larimer County 
d. 
All waters west of the Continental Divide, except in 
Navajo Reservoir. 
2. 
Except as otherwise provided by these regulations, live fish 
collected for use as bait may only be used in the same body

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
10 
of water from which they were collected. In addition, 
collection and use is allowed in any man-made ditches and 
canals within one-half mile of the adjoining lake or reservoir. 
Use of any baitfish collected in those ditches and canals is 
restricted to only the water from which it was collected and 
the adjoining lake or reservoir. Baitfish collected under this 
provision may not be otherwise transported or stored for 
later use. 
3. 
In Baca, Bent, Crowley, Kiowa, Otero and Prowers Counties, 
live fish collected for personal use as bait may be 
transported, stored or used anywhere within the listed 
counties. Transportation to or use of any such baitfish in any 
other county is prohibited, 
4. 
All live baitfish acquired from a commercial source and 
transported by anglers must at all times be accompanied by 
a receipt from the source. 
3. 
The only fish species allowed to be taken for commercial use are 
minnows, gizzard shad, white and longnose suckers and carp. 
4. 
Bullfrogs and Salamanders. The taking, possession and use of bullfrogs 
and the aquatic gilled form of the tiger salamander for private and 
commercial use is permitted. Statewide bag limits apply. 
5. 
Crustaceans. 
a. 
The taking, possession and use of any crustacean under the 
authority of a commercial fishing license is subject to the following 
restrictions: 
1. 
The minimum size for crayfish taken for commercial food 
purposes shall be three (3) inches. (Measured from the tip of 
the acumen (bony spike between the eye) to the telson (last 
bony plate in the tail)). 
2. 
All crayfish taken with eggs attached must be returned to the 
water immediately. 
3. 
All set pots and traps shall be labeled with the user’s 
customer identification number. If the user does not have a 
customer identification number, all set pots and traps must 
be labeled with the user’s name. 
b. 
In all waters west of the Continental Divide - All crayfish must be 
returned to the water of origin immediately or killed and taken into

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
11 
possession immediately upon catch with kill being effected by 
separating the abdomen from the cephalothorax (tail from body). 
6. 
Mollusks. The taking of mollusks is prohibited. 
#105 – VACANT

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
12 
#106 - FISHING CONTESTS AND RELEASE OF TAGGED FISH 
A. 
Fishing Contests using tagged or marked released fish 
1. 
No person shall advertise, promote, conduct or offer to conduct any fishing 
contest where the object of such contest is to take marked or tagged fish 
released in any waters open to public fishing, except licensed commercial 
and private lakes, or release marked or tagged fish for this purpose, 
unless such contest is first approved by the Director. 
a. 
Application shall be made on a form provided by the Division at 
least sixty (60) days prior to the proposed contest date. Such 
application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee of forty 
dollars ($40.00). 
b. 
Approval shall be granted to any person meeting the requirements 
of this regulation unless the Director determines the proposed 
contest would be significantly detrimental to the wildlife resource. In 
such cases, approval may be granted if conditions can be placed 
on the conduct of the contest which will avoid such detrimental 
effects. When an application for a contest is denied the applicant 
shall be promptly notified with a written notice stating the reason(s) 
for such denial. 
2. 
Contests involving tagged or marked trout will be permitted only on lakes 
and reservoirs greater than 200 surface acres and managed primarily as a 
catchable fishery by Colorado Parks and Wildlife. “Catchable fishery” 
means any lake or reservoir which is annually stocked with hatchery 
reared trout averaging eight (8) to ten (10) inches in length. 
3. 
No tagged or marked fish contest shall be permitted on any stream, river 
or other flowing water or any water designated as a Gold Medal or Wild 
Trout water. 
4 
Written approval shall be obtained from the person(s) or agency(s) who 
owns or controls the land and water area involved prior to making 
application to the Division 
5. 
All statutes and regulations including license provisions, manner of taking, 
size restrictions and daily bag and possession limits for fish shall remain in 
effect during any contest. 
6 
Any public fishing area shall remain open to public fishing without charge, 
regardless of any special contest fee or changes, during a fishing contest. 
7. 
All fish obtained for use in any contest shall be certified disease free in 
accordance with #009, prior to release.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
13 
8. 
Contest sponsor(s) shall provide a written report to the appropriate Parks 
and Wildlife office within twenty (20) days of the close of such contest. 
Said report shall include an estimate of the number of participants, the 
average time spent by participants in fishing and the estimated total fish 
catch by species.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
14 
#107 - STATEWIDE DAILY BAG AND POSSESSION LIMITS AND SPECIAL 
SEASONS 
 
A. 
Daily Bag, Possession Limits and size limits: 
1. Daily bag and possession limits – except as otherwise provided in these 
regulations for certain waters, the daily bag and possession limits will be as follows: 
Species 
 
Daily Bag and Possession 
Limit (except as otherwise 
noted) 
Special Conditions 
a. Trout (Brook, Brown, 
Cutbow, Cutthroat, Golden, 
Lake, Rainbow, Splake, and 
Tiger); Arctic Char; Salmon 
(except kokanee); Grayling; 
and Mountain Whitefish: 
Daily Bag: 4 fish in the 
aggregate 
Possession Limit: 8 fish in 
the aggregate 
Brook Trout - additional 
daily bag and 
possession limit: 10 fish, 
8 inches or less in length 
b. Kokanee salmon: 
10 fish 
 
c. Walleye, Saugeye, 
Sauger: 
5 fish in the aggregate 
Arkansas and South 
Fork of the Republican 
River drainages - bag 
and possession limit: 10 
fish in the aggregate 
d. Largemouth Bass, 
Spotted Bass, and 
Smallmouth Bass: 
5 fish in the aggregate 
West of the Continental 
Divide- for Smallmouth 
Bass only: Unlimited bag 
and possession limit. 
e. White Bass, Striped 
Bass, Wiper:  
10 fish in the aggregate 
Arkansas and South 
Fork of the Republican 
River drainages - bag 
and possession limit: 20 
fish in the aggregate 
f. Channel Catfish, Blue 
Catfish, Flathead Catfish: 
10 fish in the aggregate 
 
g. White Crappie, Black 
Crappie: 
 
20 fish in the aggregate

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
15 
A. 
Daily Bag, Possession Limits and size limits: 
1. Daily bag and possession limits – except as otherwise provided in these 
regulations for certain waters, the daily bag and possession limits will be as follows: 
Species 
 
Daily Bag and Possession 
Limit (except as otherwise 
noted) 
Special Conditions 
h. Bluegill, Hybrid Bluegill, 
Green Sunfish, Redear 
Sunfish, Pumpkinseed 
Sunfish: 
20 fish in the aggregate 
 
i. Yellow Perch: 
20 fish 
West of the Continental 
Divide: Unlimited 
j. Tiger Muskie: 
1 fish, at least 36 inches in 
length 
 
k. Northern Pike and 
Bullhead: 
Unlimited 
 
l. Speckled Dace, and 
Sculpin: 
Unlimited 
West of the Continental 
Divide - bag and 
possession limit: 20 fish 
in the aggregate 
m. Bullfrogs 
Unlimited 
 
n. Crayfish (crawdads) 
Unlimited 
 
o. Aquatic Tiger 
Salamander larvae (gilled 
form) 
50, less than 5 inches in 
length 
 
2. 
Any fish caught and placed on a stringer, in a container or in a live well, or 
not returned to the water immediately, will be counted as part of the 
established daily bag or possession limit. Any fish taken and subsequently 
smoked, canned, frozen or otherwise preserved for consumption is 
considered part of the established possession limit until it is consumed. 
3. 
There are no daily bag or possession limits for game species not 
specifically listed.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
16 
ARTICLE II - SPECIAL REGULATION WATERS 
#108 – Special Daily Bag and Possession Limits, Size Restrictions, and Other 
Water-Specific Provisions 
A. 
Various cutthroat waters, specifically those considered Cutthroat Conservation 
and Recreation waters, are protected throughout the state as listed below. In 
those waters: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. All cutthroat trout must be 
returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
Note: This is to accommodate the growing number of cutthroat trout 
streams and lakes that are being included in conservation and recovery 
actions according to management plans. 
B. 
In place of or in addition to regulations # 101, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107 (bag and 
possession limits, manner of take, fishing dates, fishing hours, special conditions 
and restrictions, or other fishing activities), and 108 A, the following regulations 
apply to the named waters: 
Note: Additional conditions and restrictions for state wildlife areas are found in 
Chapter 9 
1. 
Abrams Creek - Eagle County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
2. 
Adams County Fairgrounds Lakes (Public Works and Mann-Nyholt 
Lakes) - Adams County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
3. 
Adobe Creek Reservoir (Blue Lake) - Bent and Kiowa Counties 
a. 
Trotlines and jugs are permitted. 
4. 
Agnes Lakes (Upper and Lower Lakes) - Jackson County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
5. 
Akron City Lake - Washington County

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
17 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
6. 
Alberta Park Reservoir - Mineral County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
7. 
American Lakes (Snow and Michigan Lakes) - Jackson County. 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
8. 
Animas River - La Plata County 
a. 
From the confluence with Lightner Creek to the Rivera Crossing 
Bridge: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for trout is 
two fish, 16 inches in length. 
b. 
From the confluence with Hermosa Creek downstream to the state 
line: 
1. 
There is no bag or possession limit for channel catfish, 
largemouth bass, smallmouth bass, northern pike, walleye, 
green sunfish, bluegill, bullhead, yellow perch or crappie. 
9. 
Antelope Creek, West - Gunnison County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
10. 
Antero Reservoir - Park County 
a. 
Ice fishing shelters must be portable. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
11. 
Anthracite Creek, North Fork - Gunnison County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the confluence with Hell 
Creek:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
18 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
12. 
Apache Creek, North and South Forks - Huerfano County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the USFS boundary: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited. 
13. 
Arapahoe Bend Natural Area (Bass, Beaver, Cormorant, and Snapper 
Ponds) - Larimer County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
14. 
Arapaho Creek - Grand County 
a. 
From Monarch Lake downstream to USFS 125: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
15. 
Archuleta Creek - Saguache County 
a. 
On that portion within the Cochetopa State Wildlife Area (Snyder 
Ranch) downstream from Dome Lakes State Wildlife Area: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
16. 
Arkansas River Chaffee, Fremont, Lake and Pueblo Counties 
a. 
Within the Pueblo Reservoir State Wildlife Area: 
1. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for walleye 
and saugeye is five fish in the aggregate, 18 inches in 
length. 
2. 
No more than one walleye or saugeye in the aggregate 
greater than 21 inches in length may be taken per day. 
b. 
From the bridge at Valco Ponds downstream to Pueblo Boulevard 
(except at the Pueblo Nature Center as posted):

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
19 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout 16 inches in length or greater must be returned to 
the water immediately upon catch. 
17. 
Arkansas River, Middle Fork of the South Arkansas - Chaffee County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to Boss Lake: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
18. 
Augustora Creek - Archuleta County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
19. 
Aurora (Senac) Reservoir - Arapahoe County 
a. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
b. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
c. 
The minimum size for walleye is 18 inches in length. 
d. 
No more than one walleye or saugeye in the aggregate greater 
than 21 inches in length may be taken per day. 
20. 
Bard Creek - Clear Creek County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
21. 
Barker Reservoir - Boulder County 
a. 
Ice fishing is prohibited. 
b. 
Snagging of kokanee salmon is permitted from October 1 through 
December 1. 
22. 
Barr Lake - Adams County

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
20 
a. 
The minimum size for walleye and saugeye is 15 inches in length. 
b. 
No more than one walleye or saugeye in the aggregate greater 
than 21 inches in length may be taken per day. 
23. 
Basin Creek - Gunnison County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
24. 
Bear Creek - Conejos County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the confluence with the 
Conejos River: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
25. 
Bear Creek - El Paso County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to Gold Camp Road: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited 
26. 
Bear Creek - Jefferson County 
a. 
From the base of Evergreen Lake dam downstream to Bear Creek 
Reservoir: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit for trout (except rainbow trout 
and cutbows) is two fish. 
3. 
All rainbow trout and cutbows must be returned to the water 
immediately upon catch. 
27. 
Bear Creek - Montezuma County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the confluence with the 
Dolores River: 
1 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
21 
28. 
Bear Creek Reservoir - Jefferson County 
a. 
The minimum size for walleye and saugeye is 15 inches in length. 
b. 
No more than one walleye or saugeye in the aggregate greater 
than 21 inches in length may be taken per day. 
29. 
Beaver Creek - Garfield County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
30. 
Beaver Creek - Gunnison County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
31. 
Beaver Creek - Mineral County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
32. 
Beaver Creek Reservoir - Rio Grande County 
a. 
Snagging of kokanee salmon is permitted from October 1 through 
December 31. 
33. 
Beaver Creek, West - Gunnison County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
34. 
Beaver Dams Creek - Ouray County 
a. 
From the headwaters and unnamed tributary stream downstream to 
the USFS boundary: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
22 
35. 
Berthoud Reservoir - Larimer County 
a. 
All largemouth and smallmouth bass must be returned to the water 
immediately upon catch. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for crappie and 
redear sunfish is 10 fish in the aggregate, 10 inches in length. 
36. 
Beswick Pond - Mesa County 
a. 
Fishing is prohibited. 
37. 
Big Bend Creek - La Plata County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
38. 
Big Creek Lake (Lower) - Jackson County 
a. 
The bag and possession limit for lake trout and/or splake is three 
fish, only one of which may be greater than 26 inches in length. 
39. 
Big Hole Creek - Eagle County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
40. 
Big Lake - Conejos County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
41. 
Big Thompson Ponds - Larimer County 
a. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for largemouth and 
smallmouth bass is one fish in the aggregate, 15 inches in length. 
42. 
Big Thompson River - Larimer County 
a. 
From the base of Olympus Dam at Lake Estes downstream to the 
bridge at Waltonia: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
23 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
43. 
Black Canyon - San Juan County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
44. 
Black Hollow Creek - Larimer County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
45. 
Blanca Wildlife Habitat Area (BLM Ponds) - Alamosa County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth bass is 15 inches in length. 
b. 
Fishing is prohibited from February 15 through July 15. 
46. 
Blue Mesa Reservoir - Gunnison County 
a. 
Ice fishing shelters must be portable. 
b. 
There is no bag or possession limit for lake trout. 
c. 
No more than one lake trout greater than 32 inches in length may 
be taken per day. 
d. 
Snagging of kokanee salmon is permitted from November 1 
through December 31. 
e. 
The bag limit for kokanee salmon is 5 fish. 
f. 
The possession limit for kokanee salmon is 10 fish. 
47. 
Blue River - Grand and Summit Counties 
a. 
From Summit Co Rd 3 (Coyne Valley Rd. 3 miles north of 
Breckenridge) downstream to Dillon Reservoir: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All brown trout over 14 inches in length must be returned to 
the water immediately upon catch.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
24 
3. 
Fishing is prohibited from September 15 – December 1. 
b. 
From Dillon Dam downstream to the north city limits of the town of 
Silverthorne: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
c. 
From the north city limits of the town of Silverthorne downstream to 
the Colo 9 bridge over the Blue River at Blue River State Wildlife 
Area: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for trout is 
two fish, 16 inches in length. 
d. 
From the Colo 9 bridge over the Blue River at Blue River State 
Wildlife Area downstream to the Green Mountain Reservoir inlet: 
1. 
Snagging of kokanee salmon is permitted from September 1 
through December 31. 
e. 
From Green Mountain Reservoir dam downstream to the Colorado 
River: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
48. 
Bobtail Creek - Grand County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the Denver Water Board 
Diversion: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
49. 
Boedecker Reservoir - Larimer County 
a. 
The minimum size for crappie is 10 inches in length. 
50. 
Boss Lake - Chaffee County

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
25 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
51. 
Boston Peak Creek - Larimer County 
a. 
Artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
52. 
Boulder Creek - Boulder County 
a. 
From the upper end of Eben Fine Park (within the City Limits of 
Boulder) downstream to 55th St: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
53. 
Boyd Lake - Larimer County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
b. 
The minimum size for white bass is 10 inches length. 
c. 
The minimum size for walleye and saugeye is 15 inches in length. 
d. 
No more than one walleye or saugeye in the aggregate greater 
than 21 inches in length may be taken per day. 
54. 
Brush Creek - Eagle County 
a. 
From the confluence with the Eagle River upstream for 2.5 miles: 
1. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
55. 
Brush Creek, West - Eagle County 
a. 
In the Sylvan Lake inlet and upstream for ½ mile: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited from September 1 through November 
30. 
56. 
Brush Hollow Reservoir - Fremont County

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
26 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth, smallmouth, and spotted bass is 
15 inches in length. 
57. 
Bull Basin Reservoir #1 - Mesa County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for trout is two fish, 
16 inches in length. 
58. 
Bull Creek Reservoirs #1 and #2 and Connecting Channels - Mesa 
County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for trout is two fish, 
16 inches in length. 
59. 
Button Rock (Ralph Price) Reservoir - Boulder County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
c. 
Fishing is prohibited from November 1 through April 30. 
60. 
Cabin Creek - Garfield County 
a. 
From Trappers Lake upstream for ½ mile: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited. 
61. 
Canyon Creek - Garfield County 
a. 
From the north side of the I-70 Bridge downstream to the 
confluence with the Colorado River: 
 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited from March 15 through May 31 and 
from October 1 through November 30. 
62. 
Carnero Creek, Middle - Saguache County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
63. 
Carnero Creek, North - Saguache County

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
27 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
64. 
Carnero Creek, South - Saguache County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
65. 
Carter Creek - Grand County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
66. 
Carter Lake - Larimer County 
a. 
The bag limit and maximum size for walleye is three fish 21 inches 
in length. 
b. 
The possession limit for walleye is five fish. 
c. 
It is unlawful to possess filleted or cleaned fish in a boat on the 
lake. 
67. 
Cascade Creek - Conejos County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
68. 
Cascade Creek - Huerfano County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the USFS boundary: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited. 
69. 
Castle Creek - La Plata County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
28 
70. 
Cat Creek - Rio Grande and Conejos Counties 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
71. 
Cat Creek, North Fork - Rio Grande County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
72. 
Cat Creek, South Fork - Rio Grande County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
73. 
Cataract Creek - Summit County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
74. 
Cerro Summit (Montrose) Reservoir - Montrose County 
a. 
Fishing is prohibited from December 1 to February 28. 
b. 
Fishing access is restricted to the parking lot, the trail and up to 50 
feet from the water line from March 1 through August 15. 
c. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
d. 
All fish must be returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
e. 
Ice fishing is prohibited. 
75. 
Chair Creek - Gunnison County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
76. 
Chalk Creek - Chaffee County

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
29 
a. 
Within Wright’s Lake State Wildlife Area: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
77. 
Chartier Pond - Morgan County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
78. 
Chatfield Reservoir and Chatfield State Park - Jefferson and Douglas 
Counties 
a. 
Within Chatfield State Park, including the South Platte River and all 
ponds within the park boundary: 
1. 
The bag limit and minimum size for walleye is three fish, 18 
inches in length. 
2. 
No more than one walleye greater than 21 inches in length 
may be taken per day. 
3. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
4. 
Fishing is prohibited from the dam and within 100 feet of the 
dam or walleye spawning operation nets, from March 1 
through April 15, or until walleye spawning operations are 
completed. 
5. 
Fishing is prohibited on the ponds within the dog off leash 
area. 
79. 
Cheesman Reservoir - Douglas and Jefferson Counties 
a. 
Fishing is prohibited from October 1 through April 30. 
b. 
Fishing is prohibited from ½ hour after sunset until ½ hour before 
sunrise. 
c. 
Fishing is prohibited on the dam and around the reservoir as 
posted. 
d. 
Snagging of kokanee salmon is permitted from September 1 
through September 30. 
e. 
Ice fishing is prohibited. 
80. 
Cherry Creek Reservoir - Arapahoe County

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
30 
a. 
The bag limit and minimum size for walleye is three fish, 18 inches 
in length. 
b. 
No more than one walleye greater than 21 inches in length may be 
taken per day. 
c. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
d. 
Fishing is prohibited from the dam and within 100 feet of the dam or 
walleye spawning operation nets, from March 1 through April 15, or 
until walleye spawning operations are completed. 
81. 
Cheyenne Creek, North - El Paso and Teller Counties 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to Gold Camp Rd: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited. 
82. 
Cimarron River - Montrose County 
a. 
Snagging of kokanee salmon is permitted from November 1 
through December 31. 
83. 
Clear Creek - Chaffee County 
a. 
From the gauging station (approximately ½ mile above Clear Creek 
Reservoir) downstream to Clear Creek Reservoir: 
1. 
Snagging of kokanee salmon is permitted from October 1 
through December 31. 
84. 
Clear Creek - La Plata County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
85. 
Clear Creek Holding Ponds - Adams County 
a. 
Fishing is prohibited, except for youth participating in Division 
angler education activities. 
86. 
Clear Creek Reservoir - Chaffee County 
a. 
Snagging of kokanee salmon is permitted from October 1 through 
December 31.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
31 
87. 
Clear Creek, West Fork – Clear Creek County 
a. 
From the headwaters to the confluence of Butler Gulch: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch 
88. 
Clear Fork of Muddy Creek - Gunnison County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
89. 
Clear Lake - Jackson County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
90. 
Cliff Creek - Gunnison County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the confluence with South 
Prong Cliff Creek: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
91. 
Clinton Reservoir - Summit County 
a. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
92. 
Cochetopa Creek - Saguache County 
a. 
On that portion within the Cochetopa State Wildlife Area (Snyder 
Ranch): 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
93. 
Cold Creek - Saguache County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
32 
b. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
94. 
Colorado River - Garfield, Eagle, Grand, and Mesa Counties 
a. 
From Lake Granby Dam downstream to the US 40 bridge 
approximately 3 miles west of Hot Sulphur Springs: 
1. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
b. 
From the US 40 bridge, approximately three miles west of Hot 
Sulphur Springs downstream to the confluence with Troublesome 
Creek (approximately 5 miles east of Kremmling): 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
c. 
From the confluence of Williams Fork River downstream to the 
state line: 
1. 
There is no bag or possession limit for channel catfish, 
largemouth bass, smallmouth bass, northern pike, walleye, 
green sunfish, bluegill, bullhead, yellow perch or crappie. 
d. 
From the confluence with Troublesome Creek downstream to the I-
70 Exit 90 bridge at Rifle (excluding 50 yards upstream and 
downstream of the confluences with Canyon, Elk, Grizzly and No 
Name Creeks): 
1. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
e. 
50 yards upstream and downstream of the confluences with 
Canyon, Elk, Grizzly and No Name Creeks: 
1. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
2. 
Fishing is prohibited from March 15 through May 31 and 
from October 1 through November 30. 
95. 
Colorado River, (North Fork) including Shadow Mountain Spillway - 
Grand County 
a. 
From Shadow Mountain Dam spillway to Lake Granby, including 
Columbine Bay to the Twin Creek inlet: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited from October 15 through November 30. 
2. 
There is no size, bag, or possession limit for tiger muskie.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
33 
96. 
Como Creek - Boulder County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the confluence with North 
Boulder Creek: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited. 
97. 
Conejos River - Conejos County 
a. 
From the lower bridge at the town of Platoro downstream to the 
confluence with the South Fork of the Conejos River: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for trout is 
two fish, 16 inches in length. 
b. 
From Menkhaven Resort downstream to the upper boundary of 
Aspen Glade Campground: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for trout is 
two fish, 16 inches in length. 
98. 
Conejos River, Lake Fork - Conejos County 
a. 
From the headwaters including Big Lake, downstream to and 
including Rock Lake and its outlet: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
99. 
Connected Lake - Mesa County 
a. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for largemouth 
bass is two fish, 18 inches in length. 
100. Cooper Lake - Hinsdale County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
101. Cornelius Creek - Larimer County

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
34 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
102. Corral Creek - San Juan County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
103. Corral Creek - Summit County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
104. Cottonwood Creek, Little - Moffat County 
a. 
From Freeman Reservoir upstream for ¼ mile: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited from January 1 through July 31. 
105. Crawford Reservoir - Delta County 
a. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for largemouth 
bass is one fish, 18 inches in length. 
b. 
There is no bag or possession limit on yellow perch. 
c. 
From the fence on top of the Crawford Reservoir dam downstream 
to the north boundary fence: 
1. 
Fishing in the spillway, the stilling basin and the outlet canal 
is prohibited. 
106. Crosho Reservoir - Rio Blanco County 
a. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for grayling is two 
fish, 16 inches in length. 
107. Crystal Lake - Lake County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
108. Crystal Reservoir - Montrose County

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
35 
a. 
Snagging of kokanee salmon is permitted from September 1 
through December 31. 
109. Culebra Creek - Costilla County 
a. 
From the Colo 159 bridge downstream approximately 3 miles to the 
Jaquez Bridge: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
110. Cunningham Creek - Delta County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
111. Cunningham Creek - Pitkin County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
112. Daigre Lake - Huerfano County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
Ice fishing is prohibited. 
113. Deadman Gulch - Routt County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
114. Deep Creek - Gunnison County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to Paonia Reservoir: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
36 
115. Deep Creek - La Plata County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the USFS boundary: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
116. Deep Creek - San Miguel County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
117. Deer Beaver Creek - Saguache County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
118. Delaney Butte Lakes (North, South, and East) - Jackson County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. Scented flies or scented 
lures may be used on this water if they are 1.5 inches or longer. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
c. 
All brown trout between 14 and 20 inches in length must be 
returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
d. 
All rainbow trout, cutthroat trout and cutbows between 18 and 22 
inches in length must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
e. 
North Delaney Butte Lake: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited from the dam and within 100 feet of the 
dam from September 15 through November 15. 
2. 
Fishing is prohibited in the inlet, upstream of the standing 
water line. 
f. 
South Delaney Butte Lake: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited in the inlet, upstream of the standing 
water line.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
37 
119. DePoorter Lake - Sedgwick County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
120. Dillon Reservoir - Summit County 
a. 
All Arctic char under 20 inches in length must be returned to the 
water immediately upon catch. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for Arctic char is 
one fish, 20 inches in length. 
c. 
All brown trout over 14 inches in length must be returned to the 
water immediately upon catch. 
121. Disappointment Creek - Dolores County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the USFS boundary: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
122. Disappointment Creek, South Fork - Dolores County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
123. Divide Creek, West - Garfield County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the confluence with Brook 
Creek: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
124. Dixon Lake - Larimer County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
125. Dolores River - Dolores, Montezuma, Montrose, Mesa and San Miguel 
Counties

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
38 
a. 
From the confluence with the West Fork of the Dolores River 
downstream to the standing water line of McPhee Reservoir: 
1. 
The taking of kokanee salmon is prohibited, except from 
November 15 through December 31, when snagging is 
permitted. 
b. 
From McPhee Dam downstream approximately 11 miles to the 
Bradfield Bridge: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
c. 
From the McPhee Dam downstream to the state line: 
1. 
There is no bag or possession limit for channel catfish, 
largemouth bass, smallmouth bass, northern pike, walleye, 
green sunfish, bluegill, bullhead, yellow perch or crappie. 
d. 
From the Bradfield Bridge downstream to the Utah state line: 
1. 
There is no bag or possession limit for brown trout. 
126. Doty Park Lake - Morgan County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
127. Doug Creek - Montrose County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
128. Dry Gulch - Clear Creek County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to I-70: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited. 
129. Duck Creek – Clear Creek County 
a. 
From the headwaters of Duck Creek downstream to Duck Lake: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
39 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
130. Duke Lake - Mesa County 
a. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for largemouth 
bass is two fish, 18 inches in length. 
131. Eagle River - Eagle County 
a. 
From the confluence of the East Fork and the South Fork 
downstream to the confluence with the Colorado River: 
1. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
b. 
From the I-70 Exit 147 bridge in the Town of Eagle downstream to 
the confluence with the Colorado River: 
1. 
There is no bag or possession limit for channel catfish, 
largemouth bass, smallmouth bass, northern pike, walleye, 
green sunfish, bluegill, bullhead, yellow perch or crappie. 
132. East Pass Creek - Saguache 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
133. East River - Gunnison County 
a. 
From the upstream property boundary at the Roaring Judy Fish 
Hatchery downstream to the confluence with the Taylor River: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit and maximum size for trout is 
two fish, 12 inches in length. 
3. 
The taking of kokanee salmon is prohibited. 
b. 
From the Roaring Judy Fish Hatchery outlet downstream to the 
Roaring Judy property boundary: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited from August 15 through October 31. 
134. Echo Canyon Reservoir - Archuleta County

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
40 
a. 
All largemouth bass between 12 and 15 inches in length must be 
returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
135. Elaine T. Valente Open Space Lakes, North Lake - Adams County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. Scented flies or scented 
lures may be used on this water if they are 1.5 inches or longer. 
b. 
All fish must be returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
136. Eleven Mile Reservoir - Park County 
a. 
Ice fishing shelters must be portable. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is four fish, only two of which 
may be greater than 16 inches in length. 
c. 
There is no bag or possession limit on yellow perch. 
137. Elk Creek - Garfield County 
a. 
From the confluence with the Colorado River upstream to the US 6 
Bridge in New Castle: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited from March 15 through May 31 and 
from October 1 through November 30. 
138. Elk Creek - San Miguel County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
139. Elkhead Reservoir - Moffat and Routt Counties 
a. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for largemouth 
bass is two fish, 15 inches in length. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for crappie is ten fish. 
140. Emerald Lakes (Big and Little) - Hinsdale County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit and maximum size for trout is two 
fish, 14 inches in length. 
c. 
In the Lake Creek inlet for ½ mile above Big Emerald Lake:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
41 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited from January 1 through July 15. 
141. Erie Lake - Boulder County 
a. 
All largemouth and smallmouth bass must be returned to the water 
immediately upon catch. 
142. Escalante Creek, North Fork - Mesa County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the USFS boundary: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
143. Evans City Lake (Riverside Park) - Weld County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
144. Fall Creek - Mineral County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to Wolf Creek: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
145. Fall Creek - San Miguel County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to Woods Lake: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
146. Fawn Creek - Rio Blanco County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
147. Fish Creek - Route County

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
42 
a. 
From the confluence with the Yampa River upstream for 0.4 miles 
to the Rollingstone Drive bridge: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited from October 1 through November 15. 
148. Florida River - La Plata County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to Lemon Reservoir: 
1. 
Snagging of kokanee salmon is permitted from September 1 
through December 31. 
b. 
From the US 160 bridge east of Durango downstream to the 
confluence with the Animas River: 
1. 
There is no bag or possession limit for channel catfish, 
largemouth bass, smallmouth bass, northern pike, walleye, 
green sunfish, bluegill, bullhead, yellow perch or crappie. 
149. Forbes Park Lake - Costilla County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
150. Fort Morgan Ponds - Morgan County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
151. Fourmile Creek - Garfield County 
a. 
From the confluence with the Roaring Fork River upstream for ½ 
mile: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited from March 15 through May 31 and 
from October 1 through November 30. 
152. Frank Easement Ponds - Weld County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
153. Fraser Creek - Garfield County 
a. 
From Trappers Lake upstream for ½ mile: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
43 
154. Fraser River - Grand County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the confluence with St. Louis 
Creek: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All rainbow trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
b. 
From the confluence with St. Louis Creek downstream to the 
Colorado River: 
1. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
155. Freeman Reservoir - Moffat County 
a. 
Within 50 yards on either side of the inlet and upstream for ¼ mile: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited from January 1 through July 31. 
156. French Gulch - Summit County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
157. Frey Gulch - Summit County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
158. Fryingpan Lakes #2 and #3 - Pitkin County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
159. Fryingpan River - Eagle and Pitkin Counties 
a. 
From Ruedi Dam downstream to the confluence with the Roaring 
Fork River, approximately 14 miles: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
44 
2. 
All trout (except brown trout) must be returned to the water 
immediately upon catch. 
160. George Creek - Larimer County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
c. 
From the confluence with Cornelius Creek downstream to the 
confluence with Sheep Creek: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited. 
161. Goat Creek - San Miguel County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
162. Golden Park Ponds - Boulder County 
a. 
On Golden Park Ponds #3: 
1. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for 
largemouth and smallmouth bass is one fish in the 
aggregate, 15 inches in length. 
b. 
On Golden Park Ponds #1 and #2: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
Scented flies or lures must be 1.5 inches or longer. 
3. 
All largemouth and smallmouth bass must be returned to the 
water immediately upon catch. 
4. 
Possession of largemouth or smallmouth bass while fishing 
Golden Park Ponds #1 or #2 is prohibited. 
163. Gore Creek - Eagle County 
a. 
From the confluence with Red Sandstone Creek downstream to the 
confluence with the Eagle River: 
1. 
Fishing by artificial flies and lures only.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
45 
2. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for trout is 
two fish, 16 inches in length. 
164. Grand Lake - Grand County 
a. 
The bag and possession limit for lake trout is four fish, only one of 
which may be greater than 36 inches in length. All lake trout 
between 26 and 36 inches in length must be released immediately 
upon catch. 
b. 
There is no size, bag, or possession limit for tiger muskie. 
c. 
Ice fishing shelters must be portable. 
d. 
Gaffs and tail snares are prohibited. 
165. Grandview Ponds - Adams County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
166. Graneros Creek - Pueblo County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the USFS Boundary: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited. 
167. Grassy Creek - San Juan County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
168. Green Creek, Little - Grand and Routt County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
169. Green Mountain Reservoir - Summit County 
a. 
Snagging of kokanee salmon is permitted from September 1 
through December 31. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for lake trout is eight fish. 
170. Green River - Moffat County

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
46 
a. 
There is no bag or possession limit for channel catfish, largemouth 
bass, smallmouth bass, northern pike, walleye, green sunfish, 
bluegill, bullhead, yellow perch or crappie. 
171. Griffith Reservoir - Mesa County 
a. 
Fishing by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for trout is two fish, 
16 inches in length. 
172. Grimes Creek - La Plata County 
a. 
From the Bureau of Reclamation property boundary downstream to 
the standing water line of Vallecito Reservoir: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited from September 1 through November 
14. 
2. 
Snagging of kokanee salmon is permitted from November 15 
through December 31. 
173. Grizzly Creek - Garfield County 
a. 
From the confluence with the Colorado River upstream for ½ mile: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited from March 15 through May 31 and 
from October 1 through November 30. 
174. Gross Reservoir - Boulder County 
a. 
Fishing is prohibited from sunset to sunrise. 
b. 
Snagging of kokanee salmon is permitted from October 1 through 
December 1. 
175. Groundhog Creek - Dolores County 
a. 
From Groundhog Reservoir upstream for ½ mile: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited from April 15 through July 15. 
176. Groundhog Reservoir - Dolores County 
a. 
In the Nash Creek and Groundhog Creek inlets upstream for ½ 
mile: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited from April 15 through July 15.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
47 
177. Gunnison River - Delta, Gunnison and Montrose Counties 
a. 
From the confluence of the East and Taylor rivers downstream to 
the US 50 bridge: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for brown 
trout is two fish, 16 inches in length. 
3. 
All rainbow trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
b. 
From the confluence of the East and Taylor Rivers downstream to 
the standing water line of Blue Mesa Reservoir, including all 
tributary canals and diversions: 
1. 
The taking of kokanee salmon is prohibited from August 1 
through October 31. 
2. 
Snagging of kokanee salmon is permitted November 1 
through December 31. 
c. 
From Blue Mesa Dam downstream for 225 yards: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited, as posted. 
d. 
From the closure signs below Blue Mesa Dam downstream to 
Morrow Point Reservoir Dam: 
1. 
Snagging of kokanee salmon is permitted from September 1 
through December 31. 
e. 
From Morrow Point Reservoir dam downstream for 130 yards: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited, as posted. 
f. 
From the closure sign below Morrow Point Reservoir dam 
downstream to Crystal Reservoir Dam: 
1. 
Snagging of kokanee salmon is permitted from September 1 
through December 31. 
g. 
From Crystal Reservoir dam downstream for 200 yards: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited, as posted.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
48 
h. 
From 200 yards downstream of the Crystal Reservoir dam 
downstream to the Relief Ditch diversion (five miles above Austin 
Bridge): 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All rainbow trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
i. 
From the confluence with the Smith Fork downstream to the 
confluence with the Colorado River: 
1. 
There is no bag or possession limit for channel catfish, 
largemouth bass, smallmouth bass, northern pike, walleye, 
green sunfish, bluegill, bullhead, yellow perch or crappie. 
178. Gunnison River, North Fork - Gunnison and Delta Counties 
a. 
From the confluence with Anthracite Creek downstream to the 
confluence with the Gunnison River: 
1. 
There is no bag or possession limit for channel catfish, 
largemouth bass, smallmouth bass, northern pike, walleye, 
green sunfish, bluegill, bullhead, yellow perch or crappie. 
179. Gunnison River, Lake Fork - Gunnison and Hinsdale Counties 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the waterfall at Sherman: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
b. 
From first bridge crossing above Lake San Cristobal downstream to 
Lake San Cristobal: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies only. 
c. 
From the confluence with High Bridge Gulch downstream to the 
BLM boundary below The Gate campground: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for brown 
trout is two fish, 16 inches in length. 
3. 
All rainbow trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
49 
d. 
From the BLM boundary below The Gate campground to the 
confluence with Cherry Creek: 
1. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
e. 
From the confluence with Cherry Creek downstream to the upper 
Red Bridge campground boundary: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for brown 
trout is 2 fish, 16 inches in length. 
3. 
All rainbow trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
f. 
From the upper Red Bridge campground boundary downstream to 
Blue Mesa Reservoir: 
1. 
Snagging of kokanee salmon is permitted from September 1 
through December 31. 
180. Gypsum Ponds SWA - Eagle County 
a. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
181. Hahn Creek - Rio Blanco County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
182. Hallenbeck (Purdy Mesa) Reservoir - Mesa County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. Scented flies or scented 
lures may be used on this water if they are 1.5 inches or longer. 
b. 
All largemouth bass between 12 and 15 inches in length must be 
returned to the water immediately upon catch. No more than two 
largemouth bass in any bag and possession limit may be greater 
than 15 inches in length. 
183. Hamilton Creek - Grand County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
50 
184. Hanging Lake - Garfield County 
a. 
Fishing is prohibited. 
185. Harvey Gap Reservoir - Garfield County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth bass is 15 inches in length. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for channel catfish is two fish. 
c. 
Use of spearfishing, archery, slingbows and gigs for the take of 
northern pike is prohibited. 
186. Hat Creek - Eagle County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
187. Haxtun City Lake (Gun Club Lake) - Phillips County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
188. Headache Creek - Archuleta County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
189. Heberton Creek - Garfield County 
a. 
From Trappers Lake upstream for ½ mile: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited. 
190. Henry Reservoir - Crowley County 
a. 
Trotlines and jugs are permitted. 
191. Herman Gulch - Clear Creek County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to I-70: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited. 
192. Hermosa Creek - La Plata and San Juan Counties

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
51 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the confluence with East 
Cross Creek (except 100 feet up and downstream of the artificial 
waterfall (fish barrier) located 0.1 mile below the East Fort of 
Hermosa Creek confluence): 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
3. 
100 feet upstream and downstream of the artificial waterfall 
(fish barrier) located 0.1 mile below the East Fork of 
Hermosa Creek confluence: 
i. 
Fishing is prohibited. 
193. Hermosa Creek, East Fork - La Plata County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
194. Hidden Lakes - Lake County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
195. Highline Reservoir - Mesa County 
a. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for largemouth 
bass is two fish, 15 inches in length. 
196. Himes Creek - Mineral County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
197. Hine Lake - Jefferson County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth bass is 18 inches in length. 
198. Hohnholz Lake #3 - Larimer County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
52 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is four fish. 
199. Holyoke City Lake (Lions Club Fishing Hole) - Phillips County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
200. Homestake Conveyance Channel (Spinney Mountain Reservoir inlet 
ditch) - Park County 
a. 
Fishing is prohibited. 
201. Horse Creek Reservoir (Timber Lake) - Bent and Otero Counties 
a. 
Trotlines and jugs are permitted. 
202. Horseshoe Reservoir - Huerfano County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth, smallmouth, and spotted bass is 
15 inches in length. 
203. Horsetooth Reservoir - Larimer County 
a. 
Fishing is prohibited in the inlet area as posted from March 15 
through May 31. 
b. 
The minimum size for smallmouth bass is 12 inches in length. 
c. 
Bag and possession limit and size limits for walleye are two fish, 
21-24 inches in length. 
204. Hotel Draw - San Juan County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
205. Hubbard Creek, Main - Delta County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the Overland Ditch: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
206. Hubbard Creek, Middle - Delta County

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
53 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the Overland Ditch: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
207. Hudson Town Pond - Weld County 
a. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for largemouth and 
smallmouth bass is one fish in the aggregate, 15 inches in length. 
208. Huerfano River - Huerfano County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the USFS boundary: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies or artificial lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
209. Hunt Lake - Chaffee County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
210. Illinois River - Jackson County 
a. 
Within the Diamond J and Yarmony Ranch State Wildlife Areas: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies or artificial lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
211. Jackson Lake (Reservoir) - Morgan County 
a. 
Ice fishing shelters must be portable. 
b. 
The minimum size for walleye and saugeye is 15 inches in length. 
c. 
No more than one walleye or saugeye in the aggregate greater 
than 21 inches in length may be taken per day. 
d. 
The minimum size for wipers is 15 inches in length. 
e. 
The minimum size for crappie is 10 inches in length.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
54 
f. 
Fishing in the outlet ditch immediately below the dam around the 
rotary screen structure is prohibited. 
212. Jayhawker Ponds - Larimer County 
a. 
All largemouth and smallmouth bass must be returned to the water 
immediately upon catch. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for yellow perch is 5 fish. 
213. Jerry Creek Reservoirs #1 and #2 - Mesa County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. Scented flies or scented 
lures may be used on this water if they are 1.5 inches or longer. 
b. 
All fish must be returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
c. 
Use of float tubes with chest-high waders is allowed. 
214. Jim Creek - Conejos County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
215. Joe Wright Creek - Larimer County 
a. 
From the confluence with Joe Wright Reservoir upstream to Colo 
14: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited from January 1 through July 31. 
2. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
216. Joe Wright Reservoir - Larimer County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
217. John Martin Reservoir - Bent County 
a. 
Trotlines and jugs are permitted. 
218. Johnstown Reservoir - Weld County 
a. 
The minimum size for walleye and saugeye is 15 inches in length. 
b. 
No more than one walleye or saugeye in the aggregate greater 
than 21 inches in length may be taken per day.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
55 
c. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
d. 
The minimum size for crappie is 10 inches in length. 
219. Jones Creek - Saguache County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
220. Jumbo (Julesburg) Reservoir - Logan and Sedgwick Counties 
a. 
The minimum size for walleye and saugeye is 15 inches in length. 
b. 
No more than one walleye or saugeye in the aggregate greater 
than 21 inches in length may be taken per day. 
c. 
The minimum size for wipers is 15 inches in length. 
d. 
The minimum size for crappie is 10 inches in length. 
221. Juniata Reservoir - Mesa County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. Scented flies or scented 
lures may be used on this water if they are 1.5 inches or longer. 
b. 
All largemouth bass between 12 and 15 inches in length must be 
returned to the water immediately upon catch. No more than two 
largemouth bass in any bag and possession limit may be greater 
than 15 inches in length. 
222. Kaufman Creek - Gunnison County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
223. Kelly Lake - Jackson County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
224. Kelso Creek - Mesa County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
56 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
225. Kenney Reservoir - Rio Blanco County 
a. 
There is no bag or possession limit for channel catfish, largemouth 
bass, smallmouth bass, northern pike, walleye, green sunfish, 
bluegill, bullhead, yellow perch or crappie. 
226. Ketner Lake - Jefferson County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
227. Kingfisher Pond (Fort Collins Environmental Learning Center) - 
Larimer County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
228. Kinney Creek (3 miles east of Hot Sulphur Springs) - Grand County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
229. KOA Lake - Boulder County 
a. 
All largemouth and smallmouth bass must be returned to the water 
immediately upon catch. 
230. La Plata River - La Plata County 
a. 
From the US 160 bridge downstream to the state line: 
1. 
There is no bag or possession limit for channel catfish, 
largemouth bass, smallmouth bass, northern pike, walleye, 
green sunfish, bluegill, bullhead, yellow perch or crappie. 
231. Lake Arbor - Jefferson County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
b. 
The minimum size for walleye and saugeye is 15 inches in length. 
c. 
No more than one walleye or saugeye in the aggregate greater 
than 21 inches in length may be taken per day.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
57 
232. Lake Creek - Hinsdale County 
a. 
From Big Emerald Lake inlet upstream for ½ mile: 
1. 
Fishing prohibited from January 1 through July 15. 
233. Lake Dorothey - Las Animas County 
a. 
Within the Lake Dorothey State Wildlife Area, including 
Schwachheim Creek and all other drainages into the lake: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
234. Lake Fork Creek - Lake County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the confluence with Glacier 
Creek: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
235. Lake Granby - Grand County 
a. 
The bag and possession limit for lake trout is 12 fish, only one of 
which may be greater than 24 inches. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for trout (except lake trout) and 
kokanee salmon is four fish, singly or in aggregate. 
c. 
There is no size, bag, or possession limit for tiger muskie. 
d. 
Gaffs and tail snares are prohibited. 
e. 
Ice fishing shelters must be portable. 
f. 
In Columbine Bay from the inlet of Twin Creek upstream: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited from October 15 through November 30. 
236. Lake John - Jackson County 
a. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is four fish. 
237. Lake Loveland - Larimer County 
a. 
The minimum size for walleye and saugeye is 15 inches in length.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
58 
b. 
No more than one walleye or saugeye in the aggregate greater 
than 21 inches in length may be taken per day. 
238. Laramie River - Larimer County 
a. 
Within the Hohnholz State Wildlife Area: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
239. Laskey Gulch - Summit County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
240. Lester Creek - Routt County 
a. 
For ¼ mile upstream and ¼ mile downstream from Pearl Lake: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for trout is 
two fish, 18 inches in length. 
241. Lon Hagler Reservoir - Larimer County 
a. 
All largemouth and smallmouth bass must be returned to the water 
immediately upon catch. 
b. 
Only one channel catfish in bag or possession may be greater than 
20 inches. 
242. Lone Pine Creek - Larimer County 
a. 
From Parvin Lake upstream to Larimer Co Rd 74E (Red Feather 
Lakes Rd): 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited, as posted. 
243. Long Draw Reservoir - Larimer County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
244. Los Pinos Creek - Saguache County

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
59 
a. 
On that portion within the Cochetopa State Wildlife Area (Snyder 
Ranch): 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
245. Los Pinos River - Hinsdale and La Plata Counties 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the Weminuche Wilderness 
boundary: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
b. 
From the US 160 bridge in Bayfield downstream to Navajo 
Reservoir: 
1. 
There is no bag or possession limit for channel catfish, 
largemouth bass, smallmouth bass, northern pike, walleye, 
green sunfish, bluegill, bullhead, yellow perch or crappie. 
246. Lost Lake - Larimer County 
a. 
Artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
247. Lost Trail Creek - Gunnison County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
248. Lowell Ponds - Adams County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
249. Mack Mesa Reservoir - Mesa County 
a. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for largemouth 
bass is two fish, 15 inches in length. 
250. Mancos River - Montezuma County

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
60 
a. 
From the US 160 bridge in Mancos downstream to the state line: 
1. 
There is no bag or possession limit for channel catfish, 
largemouth bass, smallmouth bass, northern pike, walleye, 
green sunfish, bluegill, bullhead, yellow perch or crappie. 
251. Martin Lake - Huerfano County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth, smallmouth, and spotted bass is 
15 inches in length. 
252. May Creek - Larimer County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the confluence with the 
Poudre River: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
253. Mead Ponds - Weld County 
a. 
All largemouth and smallmouth bass must be returned to the water 
immediately upon catch. 
254. McElmo Creek - Montezuma County 
a. 
From the US 160 bridge east of Cortez downstream to the state 
line: 
1. 
There is no bag or possession limit for channel catfish, 
largemouth bass, smallmouth bass, northern pike, walleye, 
green sunfish, bluegill, bullhead, yellow perch or crappie. 
255. McKay Lake - Adams County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. Scented flies or scented 
lures may be used on this water if they are 1.5 inches or longer. 
b. 
All largemouth bass must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
256. McKenney Creek - Saguache County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon catch.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
61 
257. McMurry Ponds - Larimer County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
258. McPhee Reservoir - Montezuma County 
a. 
All largemouth and smallmouth bass between 10 and 15 inches in 
length must be returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
b. 
Snagging of kokanee salmon is permitted from September 1 
through December 31. 
c. 
There is no bag or possession limit for walleye. 
259. Meadow Creek - Eagle County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
260. Meadow Creek, East - Eagle County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
261. Meadow Creek Reservoir - Grand County 
a. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for tiger trout is 
one fish, 18 inches in length. 
262. Meadow Creek Reservoir - Jackson County 
a. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
263. Medano Creek - Saguache and Alamosa Counties 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
264. Medano Creek, Hudson Branch - Saguache County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
62 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
265. Medano Creek, Little - Saguache County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
266. Meredith Reservoir - Crowley County 
a. 
Trotlines and jugs are permitted. 
267. Michigan River - Jackson County 
a. 
Within the Brownlee, Murphy, and Diamond J State Wildlife Areas: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
268. Middle Creek, East - Saguache County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the waterfall approximately 
2.5 miles upstream from the confluence with Middle Creek: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
269. Miners Creek - Saguache County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
270. Minnesota Creek, South Fork - Gunnison County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
271. Mitchell Creek - Garfield County

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
63 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the upper boundary of the 
Glenwood Springs Fish Hatchery: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
272. Montgomery Reservoir - Park County 
a. 
Ice fishing is prohibited. 
b. 
Fishing is prohibited from December 1 through May 31. 
c. 
On the south side of the reservoir and from the west face of the 
dam: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited, as posted. 
273. Monument Reservoir - Las Animas County 
a. 
Snagging of kokanee salmon is permitted from October 1 through 
December 31. 
274. Morrow Point Reservoir - Gunnison and Montrose Counties 
a. 
Snagging of kokanee salmon is permitted September 1 through 
December 31. 
275. Mount Elbert Forebay Reservoir - Lake County 
a. 
The bag and possession limit for lake trout is one fish. All lake trout 
between 22 and 34 inches in length must be returned to the water 
immediately upon catch. 
276. Muddy Creek - San Miguel County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to Woods Lake: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
277. Muddy Creek, Little - Grand County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
64 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
278. Nash Creek - Dolores County 
a. 
From Groundhog Reservoir upstream for ½ mile: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited from April 15 through July 15. 
279. Nate Creek - Ouray County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
280. Native Lake - Lake County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
281. Navajo Lake - Dolores County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
282. Navajo Reservoir - Archuleta County 
a. 
Trotlines are permitted. 
283. Navajo River - Archuleta and Conejos Counties 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to Bridal Veil Falls: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
b. 
From the Oso Diversion Dam downstream to the state line: 
1. 
There is no bag or possession limit for channel catfish, 
largemouth bass, smallmouth bass, northern pike, walleye, 
green sunfish, bluegill, bullhead, yellow perch or crappie. 
284. Nee Gronda Reservoir - Kiowa County 
a. 
Trotlines and jugs are permitted.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
65 
285. Nee Noshe Reservoir - Kiowa County 
a. 
Trotlines and jugs are permitted. 
286. Nee So Pah Reservoir (Sweetwater and Jet) - Kiowa County 
a. 
Trotlines and jugs are permitted. 
287. Newlin Creek - Custer and Fremont Counties 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the USFS boundary: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited. 
288. Nickelson Creek - Pitkin County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
289. No Name Creek - Garfield County 
a. 
From the confluence with the Colorado River upstream for ½ mile: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited from March 15 through May 31 and 
from October 1 through November 30. 
290. Nolan Creek - Eagle County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
291. North Lake State Wildlife Area - Las Animas County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
292. North Platte River - Jackson County 
a. 
Within the Brownlee II or Verner State Wildlife Areas: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
b. 
From the southern boundary of the Routt National Forest 
downstream to the Wyoming state line (Northgate Canyon):

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
66 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
293. North Platte River, North Fork - Jackson County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
294. North Shields Ponds - Larimer County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
295. North Sterling Reservoir - Logan County 
a. 
The minimum size for walleye and saugeye is 15 inches in length. 
b. 
No more than one walleye or saugeye in the aggregate greater 
than 21 inches in length may be taken per day. 
c. 
The minimum size for wipers is 15 inches in length; only one wiper 
may be greater than 25 inches in length. 
d. 
The minimum size for smallmouth bass is 12 inches in length. 
e. 
The minimum size for largemouth bass is 15 inches in length. 
f. 
The minimum size for crappie is 10 inches in length. 
296. North Taylor Creek - Custer County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
297. Northwater Creek - Garfield County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
298. Old Dillon Reservoir - Summit County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
67 
b. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for golden trout is 
one fish, 16 inches in length. 
299. Osier Creek - Conejos County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
300. Overland Trail Pond - Logan County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
301. Paonia Reservoir (Muddy Creek) - Gunnison County 
a. 
From the top of Paonia Dam downstream to the boundary fence 
below the stilling basin: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited, as posted. 
302. Parachute Creek, East Fork - Garfield County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
303. Parachute Creek, East Middle Fork - Garfield County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
304. Parvin Lake - Larimer County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
c. 
In the inlet stream (Lone Pine Creek) upstream to Larimer Co Rd 
74E (Red Feather Lakes Rd): 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited, as posted. 
305. Pass Creek - Mineral County

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
68 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
306. Pasture Creek - La Plata and San Juan Counties 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
307. Pearl Lake - Routt County - Including the inlet stream for ¼ mile 
above the inlet and the outlet stream for ¼ mile below the outlet: 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for trout is two fish, 
18 inches in length. 
308. Pella Crossing Recreation Area Ponds (All Ponds) - Boulder County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. Scented flies or scented 
lures may be used on this water if they are 1.5 inches or longer. 
b. 
All largemouth and smallmouth bass must be returned to the water 
immediately upon catch. 
c. 
Fishing is prohibited in Webster Pond. 
309. Petty Creek - San Juan County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
310. Piedra River - Archuleta County 
a. 
From the Piedra River bridge on USFS 631 (Piedra Road) 
downstream to the lower boundary of the Tres Piedra Ranch (1.5 
miles above US 160): 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
b. 
From the US 160 bridge downstream to Navajo Reservoir:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
69 
1. 
There is no bag or possession limit for channel catfish, 
largemouth bass, smallmouth bass, northern pike, walleye, 
green sunfish, bluegill, bullhead, yellow perch or crappie. 
311. Piedra River, East Fork - Hinsdale and Mineral Counties 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
312. Pikes Peak North Slope Recreation Area (Crystal, North Catamount 
and South Catamount Reservoirs) - El Paso and Teller Counties 
a. 
The bag and possession limit for lake trout is two fish. 
b. 
North Catamount Reservoir only: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
313. Pikes Peak South Slope Recreation Area (Boehmer Reservoir, 
Boehmer Creek, Mason Reservoir and McReynolds Reservoir) - El 
Paso and Teller Counties 
a. 
In Boehmer Reservoir and Boehmer Creek, from the headwaters to 
Mason Reservoir: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited. 
b. 
In Mason Reservoir: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit and maximum size for trout is 
one fish, 16 inches in length. 
c. 
In McReynolds Reservoir: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
314. Pit D Pond - Boulder County 
a. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for largemouth and 
smallmouth bass is one fish in the aggregate, 15 inches in length. 
315. Poage Lake - Rio Grande County

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
70 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit and maximum size for trout is two 
fish, 12 inches in length. 
316. Points Creek - Mesa County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
317. Poose Creek - Rio Blanco County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
318. Porcupine Lake - Routt County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
319. Poudre Ponds #1 - Weld County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
320. Poudre River - Larimer County 
a. 
From the Rocky Mountain National Park boundary downstream to 
the confluence with Joe Wright Creek: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
b. 
From the upper boundary of the Big Bend campground downstream 
to the confluence with Black Hollow Creek: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
71 
c. 
From the west boundary of the Hombre Ranch (below Rustic) 
downstream to the Pingree Park Road/bridge: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
d. 
From the upper boundary of Gateway Park (water diversion for Ft. 
Collins) downstream to the confluence with the North Fork of the 
Poudre River: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
321. Poudre River, North Fork - Larimer County 
a. 
From the confluence with Divide Creek downstream to Bull Creek 
(above Halligan Reservoir): 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies or artificial lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
b. 
From Milton Seaman Reservoir downstream to the confluence with 
the Poudre River: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
322. Poudre River, South Fork - Larimer County 
a. 
From the Rocky Mountain National Park boundary downstream for 
one mile: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
323. Prewitt Reservoir - Logan and Washington counties 
a. 
The minimum size limit for walleye and saugeye is 15 inches in 
length.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
72 
b. 
No more than one walleye or saugeye in the aggregate greater 
than 21 inches in length may be taken per day. 
c. 
The minimum size for wipers is 15 inches in length. 
d. 
The minimum size for crappie is 10 inches in length. 
324. Priest Gulch - Dolores and Montezuma Counties 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
325. Pronger Pond - Logan County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
326. Prospect Park Lakes - Jefferson County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
b. 
Bass Lake and West Prospect Lakes only: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. Scented flies or 
scented lures may be used on this water if they are 1.5 
inches or longer. 
327. Prospect Ponds #2 and #3 - Larimer County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
328. Pryor Creek - Ouray County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the USFS boundary: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
329. Pueblo Reservoir - Pueblo County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth, smallmouth, and spotted bass is 
15 inches in length.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
73 
b. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for walleye and 
saugeye is five fish in the aggregate, 18 inches in length. 
c. 
No more than one walleye or saugeye in the aggregate greater 
than 21 inches in length may be taken per day. 
d. 
The bag and possession limit for crappie is ten fish. 
e. 
The minimum size for crappie is 10 inches in length. 
f. 
The bag and possession limit for wiper is five fish. 
g. 
No more than one wiper greater than 21 inches in length may be 
taken per day. 
h. 
Underwater spearfishing is allowed for the take of channel, blue 
and flathead catfish with an aggregate bag and possession limit of 
five fish; and for wiper with a bag and possession limit of five fish. 
i. 
Fishing is prohibited from the dam and within 100 feet of the dam or 
walleye spawning operation nets, from March 1 through April 15, or 
until walleye spawning operations are completed. 
j. 
It is unlawful to possess filleted or cleaned fish in a boat on the 
lake. 
330. Purgatoire River, Middle Fork - Las Animas County 
a. 
Within the Bosque del Oso State Wildlife Area: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All fish must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
331. Purgatoire River, South Fork - Las Animas County 
a. 
Within the Bosque del Oso State Wildlife Area: 
1. 
Fishing by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All fish must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
332. Queens Reservoir, North and South - Kiowa County 
a. 
Trotlines and jugs are permitted. 
333. Quincy Reservoir - Arapahoe County

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
74 
a. 
Fishing by artificial flies and lures only. Scented flies or scented 
lures may be used on this water if they are 1.5 inches or longer. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
c. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 18 
inches in length. 
d. 
Fishing access is controlled by Aurora Parks and Recreation as 
posted. 
334. Rampart Reservoir - El Paso County 
a. 
Ice fishing is prohibited. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for lake trout is two fish. 
335. Ranch Creek, North Fork - Grand County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
336. Red Lion State Wildlife Area - Logan County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
b. 
The minimum size for crappie is 10 inches in length. 
337. Relay Creek - La Plata and San Juan Counties 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
338. Rhodes Gulch - Conejos County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
339. Ridgway Reservoir - Ouray County 
a. 
Snagging of kokanee salmon is permitted from September 1 
through December 31.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
75 
b. 
There is no bag or possession limit for smallmouth bass. 
340. Rifle Gap Reservoir - Garfield County 
a. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for walleye are 
three fish, 15 inches in length. 
b. 
No more than one walleye greater than 18 inches in length may be 
taken per day. 
c. 
The bag and possession limit for yellow perch is twenty fish. 
341. Rio Blanco Lake - Rio Blanco County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth bass is 15 inches in length. 
342. Rio Blanco River - Archuleta and Conejos Counties 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the San Juan Wilderness 
boundary: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
b. 
From the Blanco Diversion Dam downstream to the confluence with 
the San Juan River: 
1. 
There is no bag or possession limit for channel catfish, 
largemouth bass, smallmouth bass, northern pike, walleye, 
green sunfish, bluegill, bullhead, yellow perch or crappie 
343. Rio de Los Pinos - Conejos County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the waterfall at the South San 
Juan Wilderness boundary: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
344. Rio Grande River - Hinsdale, Mineral and Rio Grande Counties 
a. 
From the lower boundary of River Hill Campground downstream to 
the the Colo 149 bridge: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
76 
2. 
The bag and possession limit and maximum size for brown 
trout is two fish, 12 inches in length. 
3. 
All rainbow trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
b. 
From the Colo 149 bridge at South Fork downstream to the Rio 
Grande Canal diversion structure: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for brown 
trout is two fish, 16 inches in length. 
3. 
All rainbow trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
345. Rio Lado Creek - Montezuma County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
346. Rito Hondo Creek - Hinsdale County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
347. Rito Hondo Reservoir - Hinsdale County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
348. Riverbend Ponds #1, #2, #3, #4 and #5  Larimer County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
349. River’s Edge Natural Area Ponds (Bass, Dragonfly, Sandpiper) - 
Larimer County 
a. 
All largemouth and smallmouth bass must be returned to the water 
immediately upon catch. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for yellow perch is 5 fish.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
77 
350. Road Beaver Creek - Gunnison County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
351. Roaring Creek and tributaries - Larimer County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
352. Roaring Fork Creek - Grand County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
353. Roaring Fork of the North Platte - Jackson County 
a. 
Within the Manville State Wildlife Area: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
354. Roaring Fork River - Pitkin and Garfield Counties 
a. 
From the confluence with McFarlane Creek downstream to the 
upper Woody Creek bridge: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
b. 
From the upper Woody Creek bridge downstream to the confluence 
with the Colorado River (excluding 50 yards upstream and 
downstream from the confluences with Fourmile Creek and 
Threemile Creek): 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for trout is 
two fish, 16 inches in length.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
78 
c. 
50 yards upstream and downstream from the confluences with 
Fourmile Creek and Threemile Creek: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for trout is 
two fish, 16 inches in length. 
3. 
Fishing is prohibited from March 15 through May 31 and 
from October 1 through November 30. 
355. Roaring Fork - Mineral County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the confluence with 
Goose Creek, including unnamed tributary streams: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
356. Roaring Forks Creek - Montezuma County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
357. Robinson Creek - Gunnison County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
358. Rock Creek - Gunnison County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the confluence with Clear 
Fork of Muddy Creek: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
359. Rock Creek - Lake County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
79 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
360. Rock Creek, Little - Mesa County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
361. Rock Creek - Park County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
362. Rock Lake - Conejos County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
363. Rocky Mountain Lake - Denver County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth bass is 15 inches in length. 
364. Rosemont Reservoir - Teller County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
Ice fishing is prohibited. 
365. Rough Canyon - Conejos County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
366. Ruby Jewel Lake - Jackson County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
367. Runyon/Fountain Lakes State Wildlife Area - Pueblo County

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
80 
a. 
Ice fishing is prohibited. 
368. Saguache Creek - Saguache County 
a. 
From the confluence of the Middle and South Forks downstream to 
the confluence with California Gulch: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
369. Saguache Creek, Middle Fork - Saguache County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the confluence with the South 
Fork of Saguache Creek: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
370. Saguache Creek, South Fork - Saguache County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the confluence with the 
Middle Fork of Saguache Creek: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
371. Saint Vrain Creek (North and South) - Boulder County 
a. 
Within the town limits of Lyons as posted: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
372. Saint Vrain State Park - Weld County 
a. 
Bald Eagle Lake: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. Scented flies or 
scented lures may be used on this water if they are 1.5 
inches or longer. 
2. 
All largemouth and smallmouth bass must be returned to the 
water immediately upon catch. 
b. 
Blue Heron Lake: 
1. 
All largemouth and smallmouth bass must be returned to the 
water immediately upon catch.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
81 
2. 
Only one channel catfish in bag or possession may be 
greater than 20 inches. 
373. San Francisco Creek (Middle and West Forks) and West San 
Francisco Lake - Rio Grande County 
a. 
That portion on USFS lands including West San Francisco Lake: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
374. San Juan River - Archuleta County 
a. 
From the intersection of US 160 and US 84 downstream through 
Pagosa Springs to the intersection of Apache Street with the river, 
including River Center Ponds: 
1. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
b. 
From the US 160 bridge in Pagosa Springs downstream to Navajo 
Reservoir: 
1. 
There is no bag or possession limit for channel catfish, 
largemouth bass, smallmouth bass, northern pike, walleye, 
green sunfish, bluegill, bullhead, yellow perch or crappie. 
375. San Miguel River - Montrose and San Miguel Counties 
a. 
From the Colo 90 bridge at Pinon downstream to the confluence 
with the Dolores River: 
1. 
There is no bag or possession limit for channel catfish, 
largemouth bass, smallmouth bass, northern pike, walleye, 
green sunfish, bluegill, bullhead, yellow perch or crappie. 
376. Sand Creek, - Saguache County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
377. Sand Creek, Little - Saguache County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon catch.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
82 
378. Sand Creek Lakes (Upper, Lower and Little) - Saguache County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
379. Scenery Pond (Colorow Mountain State Wildlife Area) - Rio Blanco 
County 
a. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
380. Schaeffer Creek - Gunnison County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to Gunnison Co Rd 12C: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
381. Schwachheim Creek - Las Animas County 
a. 
Within the Lake Dorothey State Wildlife Area: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
382. Second Creek - Delta County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
383. Second Creek - Gunnison County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the confluence with Clear 
Fork of Muddy Creek: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
384. Severy Creek - El Paso County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the USFS boundary: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
83 
385. Shadow Mountain Reservoir - Grand County 
a. 
Ice fishing shelters must be portable. 
386. Shadow Mountain Spillway - Grand County 
a. 
From Shadow Mountain Reservoir downstream to Lake Granby 
including Columbine Bay to the Twin Creek inlet: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited from October 15 through November 30. 
2. 
Snagging is prohibited. 
387. Sheep Creek - Conejos County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the Conejos River: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
388. Sheep Creek - Larimer County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
389. Sheep Creek, East and West Forks - Larimer County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
390. Sig Creek - La Plata and San Juan Counties 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
391. Sig Creek, East Fork - San Juan County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
84 
392. Silver Lake - Mesa County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for trout is two fish, 
16 inches in length. 
393. Slate Creek - Dolores County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
394. Slater Creek, South Fork and West Prong of the South Fork - Routt 
County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
395. Slater Lake - Clear Creek County 
a. 
Artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
396. Smith Creek - Saguache County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
397. Snell Creek - Rio Blanco County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
398. South Platte Park (Littleton) - Arapahoe County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
399. South Platte River - Douglas, Jefferson, Park and Teller Counties

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
85 
a. 
From the confluence of the Middle and South Forks downstream to 
Spinney Mountain Reservoir: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout between 12 and 20 inches in length must be 
returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
3. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish, only one of 
which may be greater than 20 inches in length. 
b. 
From the outlet of Spinney Mountain Reservoir downstream to the 
inlet of Eleven Mile Reservoir: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All fish caught must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
3. 
Some portions may be closed to fishing as posted from 
September 15 to December 31 for kokanee salmon 
spawning operations. 
c. 
From immediately below Eleven Mile Dam downstream to the 
Wagon Tongue Gulch Road bridge at Springer Gulch (Eleven Mile 
Canyon): 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
d. 
From Cheesman Dam downstream to the upper Wigwam Club 
property line: 
1. 
Fishing by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
e. 
From the lower boundary of the Wigwam Club downstream to 
Scraggy View Picnic Ground: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for trout is 
two fish, 16 inches in length.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
86 
f. 
From Strontia Springs Dam downstream to 300 yards upstream 
from the Denver Water Board's Marston Diversion structure: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
g. 
Within Chatfield State Park: 
1. 
The bag limit and minimum size for walleye is three fish, 18 
inches in length. 
2. 
No more than one walleye greater than 21 inches in length 
may be taken per day. 
3. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
400. South Platte River, Middle Fork - Park County 
a. 
From the Colo 9 bridge (4.9 miles north of Garo) downstream to the 
confluence with the South Fork of the South Platte: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout between 12 and 20 inches in length must be 
returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
3. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish, only one of 
which may be greater than 20 inches in length. 
401. South Platte River, South Fork - Park County 
a. 
From US 285 downstream to Antero Reservoir: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout between 12 and 20 inches in length must be 
returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
3. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish, only one of 
which may be greater than 20 inches in length. 
b. 
From Antero Reservoir downstream in the newly constructed 
channel to the confluence with the existing channel: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
87 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
c. 
From the lower boundary fence of the Badger Basin State Wildlife 
Area downstream to the confluence with the Middle Fork of the 
South Platte: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout between 12 and 20 inches in length must be 
returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
3. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish, only one of 
which may be greater than 20 inches in length. 
402. Spinney Mountain Reservoir - Park County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for trout is one 
fish, 20 inches in length. 
c. 
Fishing is prohibited from ½ hour after sunset until ½ hour before 
sunrise. 
d. 
Ice fishing is prohibited. 
e. 
There is no bag or possession limit for yellow perch. 
403. Sprat-Platte Lake - Adams County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. Scented flies or scented 
lures may be used on this water if they are 1.5 inches or longer. 
b. 
The minimum size for largemouth bass is 18 inches in length. 
404. Spring Creek - Dolores County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
405. Spring Gulch Pond - Douglas County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All fish must be returned to the water immediately upon catch.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
88 
406. Spruce Creek (confluence with Blue River approximately 5 miles 
north of Green Mtn. Res.) - Grand and Summit Counties 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
407. Spruce Creek (confluence with Blue River approximately 2.5 miles 
south of Breckenridge) - Summit County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
408. Square Top Lakes (Upper and Lower) - Clear Creek County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
409. Stagecoach Reservoir - Routt County 
a. 
There is no bag or possession limit for walleye. 
410. Stalker Lake - Yuma County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
411. Standley Lake - Jefferson County 
a. 
The minimum size for walleye and saugeye is 15 inches in length. 
b. 
No more than one walleye or saugeye in the aggregate greater 
than 21 inches in length may be taken per day. 
412. Stearns Lake - Boulder County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
413. Steelman Creek - Grand County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the Denver Water Board 
Diversion: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
89 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
414. Stueben Creek, West Fork - Gunnison County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
415. Summit Reservoir - Montezuma County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth bass is 15 inches in length. 
416. Swamp Lakes - Lake County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
417. Swan River - Summit County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for trout is 2 fish, 
16 inches in length. 
418. Swan River, North Fork - Summit County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
419. Sweitzer Lake - Delta County 
a. 
All fish, except carp, must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
420. Sylvan Lake - Eagle County 
a. 
In the inlet and upstream for ½ mile: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited from September 1 through November 
30. 
421. Tamarack Ranch Pond - Logan County

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
90 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
422. Tarryall Creek - Park County 
a. 
For that portion of Tarryall Creek located on the Cline Ranch State 
Wildlife Area: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
3. 
Fishing is prohibited from October 1 through the end of 
February. 
4. 
Fishing access is restricted to designated fishing areas 
(beats) only. Access to each fishing beat is restricted to 
occupants of the vehicle parked in the parking stall assigned 
to that beat (determined by corresponding number). No more 
than four anglers are allowed per vehicle, and only one 
vehicle is allowed per stall. 
423. Taylor Creek, Little - Montezuma County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
424. Taylor Park Reservoir - Gunnison County 
a. 
The bag and possession limit for lake trout is three fish, only one of 
which may be greater than 26 inches in length. 
b. 
Gaffs and tail snares are prohibited. 
c. 
Snagging of kokanee salmon is permitted from September 1 
through December 31. 
425. Taylor River - Gunnison County 
a. 
From the top of Taylor Dam and then from the dam downstream for 
325 yards: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited as posted. 
b. 
From a point 325 yards below Taylor Dam downstream to the lower 
boundary of the Taylor State Wildlife Area (approximately 0.4 
miles):

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
91 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
426. Tenmile Creek - Summit County 
a. 
From the confluence of West Tenmile Creek near Copper Mountain 
downstream to Dillon Reservoir: 
1. 
All brown trout over 14 inches in length must be returned to 
the water immediately upon catch. 
2. 
Fishing is prohibited from September 15 - December 1. 
427. Terror Creek, East Fork - Delta County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the confluence with Terror 
Creek (including unnamed tributary below Terror Creek Reservoir); 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
428. Terror Creek, West Fork - Delta County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
429. Thomas Reservoir - Boulder County 
a. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for largemouth and 
smallmouth bass is one fish in the aggregate, 15 inches in length. 
430. Three Lakes - Lowest and Middle Lakes - Lake County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
431. Three Licks Creek - Eagle County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
92 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
432. Threemile Creek - Garfield County 
a. 
From the confluence with the Roaring Fork River upstream for ½ 
mile: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited from March 15 through May 31 and 
from October 1 through November 30. 
433. Thurston Reservoir - Prowers County 
a. 
Trotlines and jugs are permitted. 
434. Timberline Lake - Lake County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
435. Torsido Creek - Conejos County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
436. Totten Reservoir - Montezuma County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth bass is 15 inches in length. 
437. Trapper Creek - Garfield County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
438. Trappers Lake - Garfield County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for cutthroat trout is two fish. All 
cutthroat trout greater than 11 inches in length must be returned to 
the water immediately upon catch. 
c. 
Fishing is prohibited in all inlets and upstream for ½ mile.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
93 
d. 
Fishing is prohibited within 100 feet of either side of all inlet 
streams. 
e. 
Fishing is prohibited within 100 feet of either side of the outlet and 
downstream to the first falls. 
f. 
There is no bag or possession limit on brook trout. 
439. Trinidad Reservoir - Las Animas County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth, smallmouth, and spotted bass is 
15 inches in length. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for walleye and saugeye is five fish in 
the aggregate. 
c. 
No more than one walleye or saugeye in the aggregate greater 
than 18 inches in length may be taken per day. 
440. Trout Creek - Rio Blanco and Routt Counties 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to, but not including Sheriff 
Reservoir: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch. 
441. Turquoise Reservoir - Lake County 
a. 
The bag and possession limit for lake trout is two fish. 
442. Tuttle Creek - Saguache County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
443. Twin Creek, North & South - Gunnison County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
444. Twin Lakes - Lake County

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
94 
a. 
The bag and possession limit for lake trout is one fish. All lake trout 
between 22 and 34 inches in length must be returned to the water 
immediately upon catch. 
445. Two Buttes Reservoir - Baca County 
a. 
Trotlines and jugs are permitted. 
446. Two Ledge Reservoir - Jackson County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
447. Uncompahgre River - Ouray, Montrose and Delta Counties 
a. 
From the Ouray Co Rd 23 bridge downstream to Ridgway 
Reservoir: 
1. 
Snagging of kokanee salmon is permitted from September 1 
through December 31. 
b. 
From Ridgway dam downstream to the fence just below the USGS 
Gauge Station: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited, except as posted. 
c. 
From the fence just below the USGS Gauge Station below Ridgway 
Dam downstream to the confluence with Cow Creek: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
d. 
From the Ridgway Dam downstream to the confluence with the 
Gunnison River: 
1. 
There is no bag or possession limit for channel catfish, 
largemouth bass, smallmouth bass, northern pike, walleye, 
green sunfish, bluegill, bullhead, yellow perch or crappie. 
e. 
From the Colo 90 Bridge downstream to the LaSalle Rd. Bridge: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
95 
448. Union Reservoir (Calkins Lake) - Weld County 
a. 
The minimum size for wipers is 15 inches in length. 
b. 
Bag and possession limit for wiper is 5 fish. 
449. Upper Seepage Lake - Mineral County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit and minimum size for trout is two fish, 
16 inches in length. 
450. Valco Ponds #4-7 - Pueblo County 
a. 
All largemouth bass, smallmouth bass, and spotted bass must be 
returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for channel catfish is one fish. 
451. Vallecito Creek - La Plata and San Juan Counties 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the southern boundary of the 
Weminuche Wilderness: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
b. 
From the southern boundary of the Weminuche Wilderness 
downstream to the standing water line of Vallecito Reservoir: 
1. 
All kokanee salmon must be returned to the water 
immediately upon catch from September 1 through 
November 14. 
2. 
Snagging of kokanee salmon is permitted from November 15 
through December 31. 
452. Vasquez Creek, Little - Grand County: 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the Denver Water Board 
Diversion: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately 
upon catch.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
96 
453. Vasquez Creek, South Fork - Grand County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
454. Vaughn Reservoir - Rio Blanco County 
a. 
The bag and possession limit for cutthroat trout is two fish. 
455. Virginia Gulch Creek, West - La Plata County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
456. Virginia Lake - Lake County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
457. Wahatoya State Wildlife Area - Huerfano County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
Ice fishing is prohibited. 
458. Walden Ponds (except Wally Toevs Pond) - Boulder County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. Scented flies or scented 
lures may be used on this water if they are 1.5 inches or longer. 
b. 
All largemouth and smallmouth bass must be returned to the water 
immediately upon catch. 
459. Waneka Lake (Lafayette) - Boulder County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
460. Washington Park (Lily Pond) - Denver County 
a. 
Fishing is restricted to youth 15 years of age or younger. 
461. Watson Lake - Larimer County

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
97 
a. 
The minimum size for smallmouth bass is 12 inches in length. 
462. West Creek - Mesa County 
a. 
From the Colo 141 Bridge downstream 5 miles to the confluence of 
Ute Creek: 
1. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
463. West Cross Creek - Eagle County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
464. White River - Rio Blanco County 
a. 
From the confluence of the North and South Forks of the White 
River downstream to the Colo 13 Bridge below Meeker (excluding 
the Sleepy Cat easement, and the Meeker Pasture State Wildlife 
Area): 
1. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
b. 
On the Sleepy Cat easement, and the Meeker Pasture State 
Wildlife Area east of Meeker: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
c. 
From the confluence of the North and South Forks of the White 
River downstream to Kenney Reservoir: 
1. 
There is no bag or possession limit for channel catfish, 
largemouth bass, smallmouth bass, northern pike, walleye, 
green sunfish, bluegill, bullhead, yellow perch or crappie. 
d. 
From Taylor Draw Dam downstream 400 yards: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited, as posted, to protect native fish 
spawning. 
e. 
From Taylor Draw Dam downstream to the state line:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
98 
1. 
There is no bag or possession limit for channel catfish, 
largemouth bass, smallmouth bass, northern pike, walleye, 
green sunfish, bluegill, bullhead, yellow perch or crappie. 
465. White River, North Fork - Rio Blanco County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to confluence with the South 
Fork of the White River: 
1. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
466. White River, South Fork - Rio Blanco County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to confluence with the North 
Fork of the White River: 
1. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
467. Wildcat Creek - Dolores and Montezuma Counties 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
468. Williams Fork Reservoir - Grand County 
a. 
Snagging of kokanee salmon is permitted from September 1 
through December 31. 
b. 
All northern pike between 26 and 34 inches in length must be 
returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
c. 
From the buoy line at the Williams Fork River inlet upstream to the 
first Grand Co Rd bridge: 
1. 
Fishing and snagging are prohibited from September 15 
through November 30. 
d. 
Use of spearfishing, archery, slingbows and gigs for the take of 
northern pike is prohibited. 
e. 
The bag and possession limit for lake trout is eight fish, only one of 
which may be greater than 30 inches in length. 
469. Williams Fork River - Grand County 
a. 
From Williams Fork Dam downstream to the confluence with the 
Colorado River:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
99 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
470. Williams Gulch - Larimer County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to the confluence with the 
Poudre River: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
471. Willow Creek (Little Snake drainage) - Moffat County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
472. Willow Creek Reservoir - Grand County 
a. 
Ice fishing shelters must be portable. 
473. Windsor Reservoir - Weld County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
474. Wolf Creek - Conejos County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
475. Wolf Creek - Mineral County 
a. 
From the headwaters downstream to USFS 725: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to water immediately upon catch. 
476. Wolf Creek, South Fork - Mineral County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
100 
b. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
477. Wolford Mountain Reservoir - Grand County 
a. 
Public access, including fishing, is prohibited within 150 feet of any 
kokanee spawning trap or wing net from October 1- December 1. 
478. Woods Lake State Wildlife Area - San Miguel County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
479. Wrights Lake - Chaffee County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
480. Yampa River - Routt County 
a. 
From Stagecoach Dam downstream for 0.6 mile: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
b. 
From Stagecoach Dam downstream to Catamount Lake: 
1. 
Spawning areas (redds) are closed to fishing as posted to 
protect spawning fish. 
c. 
From 0.6 miles below Stagecoach Dam downstream to the 
confluence with Walton Creek, excluding Catamount Lake: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
d. 
From the confluence with Walton Creek downstream for 4.8 miles 
to the James Brown (Soul Center of the Universe) bridge, in 
Steamboat Springs: 
1. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
2. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
101 
e. 
From the confluence with Fish Creek upstream for 100 feet, and 
downstream 200 feet: 
1. 
Fishing is prohibited from October 1 through November 15. 
f. 
From the James Brown (Soul Center of the Universe Bridge) 
downstream to the Colo 394 bridge near Craig: 
1. 
The bag and possession limit for trout is two fish. 
g. 
From the headwaters of the Yampa River downstream to the 
confluence with the Green River: 
1. 
There is no bag or possession limit for channel catfish, 
largemouth bass, smallmouth bass, northern pike, walleye, 
green sunfish, bluegill, bullhead, yellow perch or crappie. 
481. Youngs Creek Reservoirs #1, #2, and #3 - Delta County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All cutthroat trout must be returned to the water immediately upon 
catch. 
482. Yuma City Lake - Yuma County 
a. 
The minimum size for largemouth and smallmouth bass is 15 
inches in length. 
b. 
The bag and possession limit for channel catfish is five fish. 
483. Zimmerman Lake - Larimer County 
a. 
Fishing is by artificial flies and lures only. 
b. 
All trout must be returned to the water immediately upon catch. 
c. 
Fishing is prohibited in the inlet area as posted from January 1 
through July 31.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
102 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 04/30/2007. 
Rule #108 eff. 07/01/2007. 
Rule #108 B.10 emer. rule eff. 08/13/2007. 
Rule #108 B.10 emer. rule eff. 10/11/2007. 
Rule #108 B.10 eff. 11/30/2007. 
Entire rule eff. 05/01/2008. 
Rule #108 B eff. 07/31/2008. 
Rules #107, 108 eff. 01/01/2009. 
Rule #108 eff. 07/01/2009. 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2010. 
Rule #108 B.129 eff. 07/01/2010. 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2011. 
Rule #108 B.42 emer. rule eff. 05/05/2011. 
Rule #108 B.42 eff. 08/01/2011. 
Rules #100 D, 103 A.4, 107, 108 B eff. 04/01/2012. 
Rule #108 B.66.5 eff. 07/01/2012. Rule #108 B.231 repealed eff. 07/01/2012. 
Rule #108 B.23.a emer. rule eff. 10/04/2012; expired 02/01/2013. 
Rules #100 D, 100 H, 108 B.15.d, 108 B.23.a, 108 B.66-409 eff. 03/02/2013. 
Rules #100 D, 100 H, 108 B.15.d, 108 B.23.a, 108 B.353.a, 108 B.394.d.1, 108 B.394.e 
eff. 04/01/2013. 
Rule #108 B.155.c emer. rule eff. 05/09/2013. 
Rule #108 B.155.c eff. 09/01/2013. 
Rules #100 D, 100 H, 104 G.3, 104 H.5.a, 107, 108 B eff. 04/01/2014. 
Rules #108 B.244.a, 108 B.268, 108 B.269.a, 108 B.348-418 eff. 05/01/2014. 
Rules #104 A, 106 A.2, 106 A.8, 108 B.19, 108 B.35, 108 B.39-40, 108 B.43.b, 108 
B.66, 108 B.73.d, 108 B.75.d, 108 B.92-93, 108 B.100, 108 B.103, 108 B.109-
441 eff. 04/01/2015. 
Rules #103 A.2.e, 103 A.3.c, 103 A.8.a, 104 H.2.a.3, 104 H.5.a.3, 107 A.1.d, 108 B.3, 
108 B.20.b, 108 B.43, 108 B.49, 108 B.63, 108 B.73, 108 B.96.a, 108 B.121.c, 
108 B.125, 108 B.127-444 eff. 04/01/2016. 
Rule #108 B.42-442 eff. 07/01/2016. 
Rule #108 B.176-445 eff. 04/01/2017. 
Rule #108 B.70-446 eff. 05/01/2017. 
Rules #100 H, 104 H.2, 104 H.6 eff. 03/02/2018. 
Rules #103 A.4, 108 B.33-447 eff. 04/01/2018. 
Rule #108 B.74.a.5 eff. 11/01/2018.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-1 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
103 
Rules #108 B.74.a.4, 108 B.76.d, 108 B.116-450 eff. 01/01/2019. 
Rules #108 B.228-449 eff. 07/01/2019. 
Rules #104 D, 108 B.58, 108 B.86.e, 108 B.124-450 eff. 01/01/2020. 
Rules #104 F, 104 H.2.a.1, 107, 108 B eff. 04/01/2021. 
Rule #108 B eff. 04/01/2022. 
Rules #108 B 335, 439 eff. 04/01/2023. 
Rule #108 B eff. 04/01/2024. 
Rule #108 eff. 04/01/2025. 
Rules #108 B.47.a.3, 108 B.53.b, 108 B.95, 108 B.128, 108 B.147, 108 B.160, 108 
B.164, 108 B.191, 108 B.235, 108 B.346-395, 108 B.426, 108 B.480 eff. 
04/01/2026.
