---
id: "2_CCR_501-1"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "2 CCR 501-1"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=5421&fileName=2%20CCR%20501-1&type=pdf"
---

#### 2_CCR_501-1. 2 CCR 501-1

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES 
Mental Health Services 
UNIFORM METHOD OF DETERMINING ABILITY TO PAY - Repealed eff. 11/01/2013 
2 CCR 501-1 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
STATEMENT OF BASIS AND PURPOSE, REGULATORY ANALYSIS AND SPECIFIC STATUTORY 
AUTHORITY 
Uniform Method of Determining Ability to Pay rules were adopted effective 1/29/77 by the Colorado 
Department of Institutions. 
These rule sections were rewritten and final adoption following publication at the 2/6/98 State Board of 
Human Services meeting, with an effective date of 4/1/98 (CSPR# 97-10-16-1). Statement of Basis and 
Purpose, Regulatory Analysis, and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by 
reference into the rule. These materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours 
at the Office of External Affairs, Department of Human Services. 
Rules regarding ability to pay for mental health services, as originally found in 2 CCR 501-1, are repealed 
in their entirety and rewritten as a consolidation of Behavioral Health rules in 2 CCR 502-1 as adopted 
following publication at the 9/6/2013 State Board of Human Services meeting, with an effective date of 
11/1/2013 (Rule-making# 13-3-4-1). Statement of Basis and Purpose, fiscal impact, and specific statutory 
authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the rule. These materials are available 
for review by the public during normal working hours at the Colorado Department of Human Services, 
Office of Enterprise Partnerships, Division of Boards and Commissions, State Board Administration. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule repealed eff. 11/01/2013. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado
