---
id: "2_CCR_601-19"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "2 CCR 601-19"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=7542&fileName=2%20CCR%20601-19&type=pdf"
---

#### 2_CCR_601-19. 2 CCR 601-19

1 
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION 
Division of Transportation Development 
RULES CONCERNING THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SAFE ROUTES TO SCHOOL PROGRAM 
2 CCR 601-19 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
I. 
PURPOSE 
A. 
The purpose of these Rules is to prescribe procedures for application and disbursement of 
federal or state moneys to political subdivisions of the State, for projects to improve safety for 
pedestrians and bicyclists in School Areas, as authorized by § 43-1-1601 et seq., C.R.S. 
B. 
The Department promulgated these Rules in order to carry out the purposes of § 43-1-1601 et 
seq., concerning the “Safe Routes to School” program. The Rules were adopted for the following 
reasons: (1) to comply with § 43-1-1604 C.R.S.; (2) to establish the procedures to review and 
award grants; (3) to define essential terms; (3) to determine additional criteria and procedures 
under which the program will be managed. 
II. 
STATEMENT OF BASIS AND SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY 
A. 
Statement of Basis 
Sections 43-1-1601 et seq. C.R.S. was enacted in June 2004. Section 43-1-1604 C.R.S. directs the 
Department to promulgate Rules for the implementation of a grant based program awarding federal funds 
to political subdivisions of Colorado to improve safety for pedestrians and bicyclists in School Areas. 
The Department promulgated the Rules in May 2005. The Department initiated the rulemaking process to 
amend the existing Rules in June 2007. The first amendment was needed to revise the contact person to 
be in compliance with job duties and responsibilities within the Department of Transportation, and Section 
1404 of the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, and Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy of Users Act of 
2005. The second amendment was necessary to attain continuity of services and leadership on the 
Advisory Committee. 
The Department amended the Rules in 2012 as part of a Department-wide initiative to update Rules 
where warranted, eliminate unnecessary language and lessen restrictions on local government when 
possible. This initiative was in keeping with the Governor’s Executive Order D2011-005 and Executive 
Order 2012-002. 
The Department amended the Rules in 2014 as a result of HB14-1301. This bill made state general funds 
available for FY15 for the Safe Routes to Schools Program, and specified that all of the grants awarded 
using the funds resulting from HB14-1301 must be for non-infrastructure projects. The bill also provides 
that if the Safe Routes to Schools Program received federal dollars in FY15, general funds appropriated 
for the program will be reduced by the amount of the federal moneys received. Finally, the bill eliminated 
the need to distribute projects by geographic distribution of the student population. Instead, the bill 
requires that the Department consider schools having greater than fifty percent of the students eligible for 
free or reduced-priced lunch as one of the criteria for awarding grants. 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-19 
Transportation Commission and Office of Transportation Safety 
 
2 
The Department amended the Rules in 2017 as a result of changes enacted in HB14-1301 which were 
only in effect for one year. The state general funds available in FY15 for Safe Routes to School are no 
longer available for the grant program. All other aspects of Safe Routes to School Program required by 
the bill remain in effect. 
B. 
Specific Statutory Authority 
These Rules are promulgated by the Department pursuant to the specific statutory authority of §§43-1-
110 (2) and 43-1-1604 C.R.S. and conform to the requirements of PL 114-94 (“Fixing America's Surface 
Transportation Act” or “FAST Act”) signed into law on December 4, 2015, 23 U.S.C. 101 (29)(B); 23 
U.S.C. 213(b)(3) and 23 U.S.C. 403 and its implementing regulations; “SAFETEA-LU” 23 U.S.C. 402, and 
its implementing regulations; “National Goals and Performance Management Measures” 23 U.S.C. § 150; 
the National School Lunch Act, 42 U.S.C. § 1751 et seq. and its implementing regulations, 7 CFR 245. 
Pursuant to § 24-4-105(11), C.R.S., the Department may entertain petitions for declaratory orders. 
1.00 
DEFINITIONS 
1.01 
“Advisory Committee” means the committee appointed by the Executive Director as established 
in § 43-1-1601(4) C.R.S. and Section 2.00 of these Rules. 
1.02 
“Applicant” means a political subdivision of the State of Colorado that applies for an award under 
these Rules. 
1.03 
“Commission” means the Colorado Department of Transportation Commission established 
pursuant to § 43-1-106 C.R.S. 
1.04 
“Department” means the Colorado Department of Transportation established pursuant to § 43-1-
101 C.R.S. 
1.05 
“Executive Director” means the Executive Director of the Colorado Department of Transportation 
pursuant to § 43-1-103 C.R.S. 
1.06 
“Free or Reduced-Priced Lunch” means a lunch served to a child from a household eligible for 
such benefits as provided by 7 CFR 245, and the National School Lunch Act, 42 U.S.C. § 1751 et 
seq. 
1.07 
“MPO” means a Metropolitan Planning Organization located in urban areas with a population over 
50,000. An MPO is a federally-designated entity established by agreement between the Governor 
and the units of local government responsible for transportation planning processes. 
1.08 
“Non-System Road or Trail” means a road or trail that is not part of the State highway system. 
1.09 
“On-System Road or Trail” means a road that is part of the State highway system. 
1.10 
“Rural Area” for purposes of these Rules means an area outside an MPO boundary. 
1.11 
“School Areas” means the area within a two mile radius of a school. 
1.12 
“STAC” means Statewide Transportation Advisory Committee as created in § 43-1-1104, C.R.S. 
1.13 
“STIP” means the Statewide Transportation Improvement Program that is the federally required, 
four-year program of planned transportation projects. The STIP is developed in coordination with 
planning partners throughout the state through the Project Priority Programming Process. The 
STIP incorporates the Transportation Improvement Programs (TIPs) from each MPO.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-19 
Transportation Commission and Office of Transportation Safety 
 
3 
1.14 
“TIP” means the Transportation Improvement Programs (TIPs) that identify all current federally 
funded transportation projects to be completed in a Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) 
region over a four-year period. 
1.15 
“TPR” means a Transportation Planning Region. TPRs are geographically designated areas of 
the state with similar transportation needs and commonalities, pursuant to the provisions of § 43-
1-1102 and 1103 C.R.S. 
2.00 
ADVISORY COMMITTEE 
2.01 
The Executive Director shall appoint an Advisory Committee in conformance with § 43-1-1601(4) 
C.R.S. 
2.02 
In addition, the Advisory Committee shall include representatives of the STAC, who shall serve a 
two year term. The STAC shall choose their designees, with the approval of the Executive 
Director. STAC representatives to the Advisory Committee shall consist of: 
2.02.1 Two STAC representatives of Metropolitan Planning Organizations or their designee; 
2.02.2 Two STAC representatives of rural Transportation Planning Regions or their designee. 
3.00 
APPLICATION INFORMATION 
3.01 
The Department will notify city and county governments, schools, and school districts of the 
potential availability of Safe Routes to School funds, requirements for requesting an application 
package, and the deadline to submit an application to the Department for Safe Routes to School 
funds. 
3.02 
The application package, to be developed and periodically updated by the Advisory Committee, 
will contain instructions and guidelines for completion of the application, as determined by the 
Advisory Committee and the Department. Instructions and guidelines may not be in conflict with § 
43-1-1601 et seq., C.R.S. 
4.00 
THRESHOLD CRITERIA FOR APPLICANT ELIGIBILITY 
4.01 
The purpose of this section is to describe the threshold criteria the Department and Advisory 
Committee will use to determine if an Applicant will be eligible for funding An Applicant must 
comply with all threshold criteria. 
4.01.1 Applicants must be political subdivisions of the state. 
4.01.2 A political subdivision of the state that receives money under this Part 16 of Article 1 of 
Title 43, may not use such moneys as a substitute for funds currently being used to 
support similar activities. 
4.01.3 In order for a political subdivision of the state to be eligible for the funds, the political 
subdivision must show that it has established an agreement with the school in the area 
where the project will occur. Such agreement of the improvement project must be 
documented and signed by an official of the school. 
4.01.4 An Applicant must submit the application to the Advisory Committee through CDOT’s 
Safe Routes to School Program Manager.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-19 
Transportation Commission and Office of Transportation Safety 
 
4 
4.01.5 An Applicant must ensure that all forms, assurances, and resolutions required by the 
application are signed by the appropriate officer or individual with authority to legally bind 
the Applicant. 
4.01.6 If the project is not located on CDOT right of way, maintenance shall be the responsibility 
of the Applicant. If the project is located on CDOT right of way, maintenance agreements 
shall be in place prior to construction. 
4.01.7 If required by the program, a local match must be demonstrated. 
4.01.8 On-System projects must not conflict with the State and Regional Transportation Plans 
available on the Department website found at https://www.codot.gov/programs/colorado-
transportation-matters 
4.01.9 Applicant eligibility is contingent upon compliance with all state and federal laws and 
regulations. Applicants that fail to comply with all applicable federal and state laws, 
regulations and requirements will not be considered eligible under these Rules. 
Compliance by an Applicant with all threshold eligibility criteria does not obligate the 
Commission to award funds, but only allows the Applicant to be evaluated by the 
Department and Advisory Committee for consideration for available funding based upon 
the evaluation criteria described in Section 5.00. of the Rules. 
5.00 
EVALUATION CRITERIA 
5.01 
The purpose of this section is to describe the basic evaluation criteria used by the Department to 
determine whether an eligible Applicant will be funded and to assist in determining the level of 
funding to be awarded. Guidelines, instructions, and details concerning such evaluation criteria 
shall be described fully in the application package. 
5.02 
The Advisory Committee shall create a scoring procedure utilizing the criteria described in this 
section. 
5.03 
The Department and Advisory Committee will include the following criteria to evaluate eligible 
Applicants: 
5.03.1. The demonstrated need of the Applicant; 
5.03.2. The potential of the proposed project to reduce injuries and fatalities among children; 
5.03.3. The potential of the proposed project to encourage walking and bicycling to school; 
5.03.4. The extent to which the application identifies existing safety hazards; 
5.03.5. The extent to which the application identifies existing and potential walking and bicycling 
routes and the extent to which the proposed project would improve or connect them; 
5.03.6. Support for the proposed project from local school-based associations, traffic engineers, 
elected officials, law enforcement agencies, and school officials; 
5.03.7. Consideration for implementation of Safe Routes to Schools in communities with schools 
having greater than fifty percent of the students eligible for Free or Reduced-Priced 
Lunch; and 
5.03.8. Other criteria allowed or required by applicable federal laws or regulations.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-19 
Transportation Commission and Office of Transportation Safety 
 
5 
5.04 
If the project request is located in an MPO boundary, the application must be certified by the 
MPO. The certification shall demonstrate that all actions necessary to include the project(s) in the 
Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) for that MPO will be taken before the application may 
be approved. 
6.00 
FUNDING 
6.01 
The Department shall allocate to the Safe Routes to School Program any funds received from the 
federal or state government that designates funds for such program. 
6.02 
Applicants applying for funds through the Safe Routes to School program may also be eligible for 
other federal funds, but must compete for those funds using the criteria established under that 
program. 
6.03 
Costs of the Project exceeding the amount of the grant shall be borne by the Applicant. 
6.04 
Project funds that have not been encumbered within 2 years will be considered inactive and the 
remaining unencumbered funds may be revoked and returned to the program. 
7.00 
INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE 
The Rules are intended to be consistent with and not be a replacement for the federal requirements 
contained in the National School Lunch Act, 42 U.S.C. § 1751 et seq. November 10, 1989, and its 
implementing regulations, 7 CFR 245, December 13, 2007, which are hereby incorporated into the Rules 
by this reference, and do not include any later amendments. All referenced laws and regulations shall be 
available for copying or public inspection during regular business hours from the Office of Policy and 
Government Relations, Colorado Department of Transportation, 2829 W. Howard Pl., Denver, Colorado 
80204, or by contacting staff at https://www.codot.gov/business/rules. Copies of the referenced United 
States Code may be obtained from the following address: Office of the Law Revision Counsel, U.S. 
House of Representatives, H2-308 Ford House Office Building, Washington, DC 20515, or by phone at 
(202) 226-2411. Copies of the referenced Code of Federal Regulations may be obtained from the 
following address: U.S. Government Publishing Office, 732 North Capitol Street, N.W., Washington, DC 
20401, or by phone at (202) 512-1800. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule recodified from 2 CCR 602-4 eff. 06/30/2012. 
Entire rule emer. rule eff. 09/04/2014; expired 01/02/2015. 
Entire rule eff. 01/30/2015. 
Rules II, 1.13-1.15, 4.01.8, 5.04, 7.00 eff. 04/16/2018.
