---
id: "2_CCR_601-17"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "2 CCR 601-17"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=4614&fileName=2%20CCR%20601-17&type=pdf"
---

#### 2_CCR_601-17. 2 CCR 601-17

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION 
Transportation Commission 
RULES REGARDING THE USE OF WASTE TIRES FOR NOISE MITIGATION PURPOSES ALONG 
COLORADO STATE HIGHWAYS PURSUANT TO § 43-2-401 C.R.S. 
2 CCR 601-17 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
1.00  Statement of Basis and Purpose 
The purpose of these rules is to establish consistency regarding the applications for recycled waste tire 
grants pertaining to noise mitigation measures pursuant to § 43-2-401 et seq. C.R.S. (2011). 
2.00  Authority 
23 CFR 1.23 Rights-of-Way 
23 CFR 710.403 Management 
23 CFR Part 772 Noise Abatement 
 §43-2-401, C.R.S. et seq.  C.R.S. (2011). § 43-2-404 C.R.S. (2011) provides authority to the 
Transportation Commission to promulgate rules pertaining to noise mitigation standards and measures. 
3.00  Definitions 
3.01  "Applicant" shall mean a homeowner or renter residing in an eligible area, or the operator of a 
temporary housing facility or public housing facility located in an eligible area, who submits an 
application to the transportation commission in accordance with these rules. 
3.02  "Department" or "CDOT" shall mean the Department of Transportation pursuant to § 43-2-102(2) 
C.R.S. (2011). 
3.03  "Eligible Area" shall mean a residential area that: (a) is located adjacent to a state highway; (b) 
existed as a residential area before the state highway was constructed or last widened, and (c) Is 
located within the boundaries of a local government that, as of the date of the application, has 
adopted an ordinance or resolution to mitigate the effects of noise in future residential or other 
noise-sensitive development adjacent to the state highways within the boundaries of the local 
government. 
3.04  "Local Entity" for purposes of these rules shall mean the responsible party consisting of the 
applicant, a group or organization registered and in good standing with the Colorado Secretary of 
State, or a local government. 
3.05  "Local government" shall mean a city, town, county, or city and county. 
3.06  "Noise Mitigation Measures" shall mean for purposes of these rules noise abatement measures 
approved by the Transportation Commission pursuant to § 43-2-404 C.R.S. (2011). 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
2 
3.07  "Transportation Commission" shall mean the commission created pursuant to § 43-1-106 C.R.S. 
(2011). 
4.00  General Eligibility Criteria for Noise Mitigation Measures Funded Pursuant to § 43-2-402, 
C.R.S. and § 43-2-403 C.R.S. (2011). 
4.01  The Applicant must be located within the boundaries of a Local Government that, as of the date of 
the application, has adopted an ordinance or resolution that requires the mitigation of the effects 
of noise on future residential or other noise-sensitive developments adjacent to the state 
highways within the boundaries of the local government. 
4.01.1  To be eligible, the application must meet the following criteria: 
4.01.1.1  Comply with the Department’s Noise Analysis and Abatement Guidelines dated 
June 16, 2011; however, with regard to the supporting documentation submitted 
with an application, pursuant to 43-2-402(2), C.R.S., the application for noise 
mitigation measures shall: (a) be accompanied by a petition in support of the 
noise mitigation measures signed by members of no less than seventy-five 
percent of the households in an eligible area who live no more than four-tenths of 
one mile from the nearest edge of the right-of-way of the state highway; (b) 
specify whether a local government has agreed to provide any of the moneys 
necessary to construct the noise mitigation measures, and (c) specify which 
noise mitigation measures the applicant proposes for the eligible area. 
4.01.1.2  Be compatible with any existing noise mitigation measures in the eligible area; 
and 
4.01.1.3  Comply with zoning and building requirements established by the local 
government. 
4.02  The application must specify the proposed noise mitigation measure (i.e. noise barrier). To be 
eligible, the proposed measure must contain or make use of, in part, recycled, recapped, or other 
previously used waste tires. 
4.03  Applications that propose using CDOT right-of-way, but do not purchase all the necessary CDOT 
right-of-way, must contain evidence satisfactory to CDOT that a Local Entity has committed to 
providing funding for any necessary maintenance and repair of the noise mitigation measure. 
4.04  If the local entity does purchase the right-of-way, then the maintenance and repairs to the mitigation 
measure shall be the sole responsibility of the local entity. Applications must contain evidence 
satisfactory to CDOT that a Local Entity has committed to providing funding for any necessary 
maintenance and repair of the noise mitigation measure. 
4.05  In the event there is more than one acceptable project in a given cycle, the list of eligible projects 
will be ranked according to the Department's Noise Mitigation Prioritization Formula herein and 
submitted to the Department of Public Health and Environment for consideration. 
5.00  Noise Mitigation Prioritization Formula 
5.01  When multiple applications are being considered for recycled waste tire grant funding, the 
Department shall prioritize the consideration of applications based on the following factors. Each 
factor will be rated using the following criteria on a scale from 0-10 points. The maximum score 
that a request can accumulate is 30 points. 
5.02  Noise Mitigation Benefits - 10 points

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
3 
5.02.1  The procedure to determine the benefits of the requested mitigation measure will be the 
method for determining the cost-benefit index of a barrier as described in the CDOT 
Noise Analysis Guidelines (2011) and these rules: 
Less than $4500/ reduction dBA per receiver: 
5 points 
$4501-$6800/ reduction dBA per receiver: 
4 points 
More than $6800/ reduction dBA per receiver: 
0 points 
5.02.2  The application that demonstrates the maximum number of benefited receivers 
experiencing 5 dBA or more of noise reduction as a result of the mitigation measure 
would be eligible for an additional 5 points. All other applicants would receive 0 points. 
5.03  Noise Reduction Effectiveness - 10 points 
5.03.1  A minimum of 7 dBA of noise reduction must occur at one residence associated with each 
noise abatement measure as described in the CDOT Noise Analysis and Abatement 
Guidelines (2011). 
5.03.2  Based on the average dBA reduction of all benefited receivers, the following priority points 
will be applied: 
7 dBA average or more designed noise reduction per residence: 10 points 
6-5 dBA average designed noise reduction per residence: 
8 points 
Less than 5 dBA average noise reduction per residence:  
0 points 
5.04  Previous Type II List Status - up to 10 points 
5.04.1  Up to ten points will be awarded for project areas that were included on the 1992 CDOT 
Type II barrier list. The list consisted of four "tables" labeled A through D. All of the 
locations that were on Table A of the list have been completed. Areas listed in tables B 
through D can be eligible for the following bonus points: 
Locations listed in Table "B": 
10 points 
Locations listed in Table "C": 
6 points 
Locations listed in Table "D": 
4 points 
Not listed: 
0 points 
_______________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor's Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 08/01/2008. 
Entire rule eff. 04/14/2012. 
Annotations

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
4 
Rule 7.0 (adopted 06/19/2008) was not extended by House Bill 09-1292 and therefore expired 
05/15/2009.
