---
id: "2_CCR_502-2"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "2 CCR 502-2"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=5422&fileName=2%20CCR%20502-2&type=pdf"
---

#### 2_CCR_502-2. 2 CCR 502-2

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES 
Behavioral Health 
COLORADO MENTAL HEALTH SYSTEM - Repealed eff. 11/01/2013 
2 CCR 502-2 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
STATEMENT OF BASIS AND PURPOSE, REGULATORY ANALYSIS, AND SPECIFIC STATUTORY 
AUTHORITY 
Rewrite of all sections to the Mental Health Services rules and regulations were final adoption following 
publication at the 10/6/95 Executive Director rule-making session, with an effective date of 12/1/95 
(CSPR# 95-7-10-2). Statement of Basis and Purpose and specific statutory authority for these revisions 
were incorporated by reference into the rule. These materials are available for review by the public during 
normal working hours at the Office of External Affairs, Department of Human Services. 
Rules regarding the Colorado mental health system, as originally found in 2 CCR 502-2, are repealed in 
their entirety and rewritten as a consolidation of Behavioral Health rules in 2 CCR 502-1 as adopted 
following publication at the 9/6/2013 State Board of Human Services meeting, with an effective date of 
11/1/2013 (Rule-making# 13-3-4-1). Statement of Basis and Purpose, fiscal impact, and specific statutory 
authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the rule. These materials are available 
for review by the public during normal working hours at the Colorado Department of Human Services, 
Office of Enterprise Partnerships, Division of Boards and Commissions, State Board Administration. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule repealed eff. 11/01/2013. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado
