---
id: "2_CCR_405-7"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "700 – Vehicle Pass"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12515&fileName=2%20CCR%20405-7&type=pdf"
---

#### 2_CCR_405-7. 700 – Vehicle Pass

1 
Department of Natural Resources 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
CHAPTER P-7 - PASSES, PERMITS AND REGISTRATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL PROVISIONS AND FEES RELATING TO PASSES, PERMITS 
AND REGISTRATIONS 
Vehicle Passes 
#700 – Vehicle Pass 
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in these regulations or by Colorado Revised 
Statutes, no motor vehicle shall be brought onto any state recreation area or 
state park unless a valid parks pass issued by the Division of Parks and Wildlife 
(Division) or the Department of Revenue (DOR) is properly attached, displayed, 
or carried in the vehicle. Passes that are designed to be affixed to the windshield 
shall be attached to the extreme lower right-hand corner of the vehicle’s 
windshield in a position so that the pass may be observed and identified. For an 
annual affixed vehicle pass, including an aspen leaf annual pass to be properly 
attached to a windshield, it must be permanently affixed. A state parks annual 
transferable pass must be hung from the rear-view mirror so that the pass may 
be observed and identified. Any vehicle whereby a pass cannot be secured 
inside the passenger compartment or hung from a rear-view mirror shall be 
treated as a special case, but evidence of a pass shall be required on the person 
or in the vehicle. A vehicle that has a Keep Colorado Wild annual pass must 
have evidence of such on its associated DOR issued registration documents, 
which must be carried in the vehicle or shown in a Division sponsored mobile 
application. 
(A) 
As referenced in this chapter, “veteran” means a person who served in the 
active military, naval, or air service and who was discharged or released 
under conditions other than dishonorable. 
2. 
No vehicle pass shall be required for: 
a. 
Any snowmobile as defined in section 33-14-101, C.R.S.; 
b. 
Any off-highway vehicle as defined in section 33-14.5-101(3), C.R.S.; 
c. 
Any government-owned vehicle, emergency vehicle, or law enforcement 
vehicle on official business; 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
2 
d. 
Any commercial delivery vehicle delivering goods to the park or a park 
concessionaire when the goods are directly related to the operation of the 
park or concession; 
e. 
Any resident’s vehicle displaying a Colorado disabled veteran’s license 
plate pursuant to section 42-3-213(5)(a), C.R.S. or a purple heart special 
license plate pursuant to section 42-3-213(2), and as provided for in 
section 33-12-106(1), C.R.S.; 
f. 
Any vehicle bringing a holder of a Columbine, Centennial, Blue Spruce, 
Independence, Volunteer or Military Pass issued pursuant to # 701 into a 
state recreation area or state park; 
g. 
Any vehicle entering a state recreation area or state park pursuant to # 
712-4; 
h. 
Any vehicle that is exclusively towed; 
i. 
Any vehicle occupied by a veteran or current or reserve member of any 
branch of the armed forces of the United States, on the State observance 
of Veteran’s Day. At least one form of past or present military identification 
shall be presented at the Park entrance. Acceptable forms of military 
identification include: 
(1) 
DD214; 
(2) 
DD Form 2; 
(3) 
DD Form 2765; 
(4) 
Active, retired or veteran military identification cards; 
(5) 
A current Colorado Driver’s License or state issued identification 
card with the word ‘Veteran’ printed on it as specified in 42-2-303 
(5)(a), C.R.S.; 
(6) 
VA medical card; 
(7) 
The display of military license plates. 
j. 
Any Division employee, volunteer or hired contractor vehicle when such 
vehicle is used for the purposes of accomplishing work duties; 
k. 
Any vehicle owned by a concession owner or employee or any contractor 
working for a concession when such vehicle is used for the purposes of 
accomplishing work duties; 
l. 
Any vehicle entering the Cameo Shooting and Education Complex.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
3 
3. 
The types of annual vehicle passes available from the Division are as follows: 
a. 
An Aspen Leaf annual vehicle pass as provided for in section 33-12-103, 
C.R.S.; and 
b. 
An annual affixed vehicle pass, which is available for any vehicle except 
passenger vans and buses operated by a commercial business, and 
c. 
A state parks annual transferable pass, which can be used for any vehicle 
except passenger vans and buses operated by a commercial business. 
State parks annual transferable passes are issued to individuals, not 
vehicles. Only one vehicle at a time can use an annual transferable pass. 
(1) 
Commercial passenger vans and buses are eligible to purchase 
daily, but not annual, vehicle passes. 
(2) 
School buses on official school outings, passenger vans and buses 
operated by a nonprofit corporation or organization as defined in 
13-21-115.5 (3), C.R.S., and passenger vans and buses operated 
by any government agency are eligible for either daily or annual 
affixed vehicle passes. 
(3) 
An annual transferable pass may be shared with the original pass 
holder’s household. For the purpose of this regulation, “household” 
is defined as persons living at the same address. 
d. 
A Keep Colorado Wild annual pass, as provided for in section § 33-12-
108, C.R.S., which will be available for purchase through the Colorado 
Department of Revenue vehicle registration process starting with January 
2023 vehicle registrations. 
4. 
Daily vehicle passes are as follows: 
a. 
A fee of $10.00 per vehicle for any vehicle displaying a Colorado license 
plate except for: 
1. 
Passenger vans and buses operated by a commercial business. 
2. 
A $2.00 per vehicle Chatfield Water Basin Fee will be added to the 
cost of daily vehicle passes at Chatfield State Park. 
3. 
A $2.00 per vehicle Local Access Fee will be added to the cost of 
daily vehicle passes at Elkhead Reservoir, Golden Gate Canyon, 
Pearl Lake, Stagecoach, State Forest, and Steamboat Lake State 
Parks. 
b. 
A fee of $15.00 per vehicle for any vehicle with an out-of-state license 
plate except for:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
4 
1. 
Passenger vans and buses operated by a commercial business. 
2. 
A $2.00 per vehicle Chatfield Water Basin Fee will be added to the 
cost of daily vehicle passes at Chatfield State Park. 
3. 
A $2.00 per vehicle Local Access Fee will be added to the cost of 
daily vehicle passes at Elkhead Reservoir, Golden Gate Canyon, 
Pearl Lake, Stagecoach, State Forest, and Steamboat Lake State 
Parks. 
c. 
School buses on official school outings, passenger vans and buses 
operated by a nonprofit corporation or organization as defined in 13-21-
115.5 (3), C.R.S., and passenger vans and buses operated by any 
government agency are eligible to purchase a daily vehicle pass. 
d. 
For passenger vans and buses operated by a commercial business, the 
daily vehicle pass fee will be based upon the number of passengers on-
board. The fee shall be $10.00 for up to fifteen passengers on-board, 
$40.00 for sixteen to thirty passengers on-board, and $50.00 for more 
than thirty passengers on-board. 
5. 
An annual affixed vehicle pass or state parks annual transferable pass shall be 
issued and, by appropriate language, authorize entrance by motor vehicle to all 
state recreation areas and state parks, except Cameo Shooting and Education 
Complex, during the period beginning on the date of purchase through the last 
day of the same month in the following year. Such authorization shall apply to the 
user and all passengers in the motor vehicle to which the pass is affixed or 
displayed. One pass shall cover all state recreation areas and state parks. 
6. 
Additional affixed annual vehicle passes may be issued to an owner or to the 
owner’s household. Additional annual affixed vehicle passes authorize entrance 
by motor vehicle to all state recreation areas and state parks, except Cameo 
Shooting and Education Complex, during the period beginning on the date of 
purchase of the additional pass through the expiration date of the associated 
original full-priced annual affixed pass or state parks annual transferable pass. 
Owners of school buses, passenger vans and buses owned by a nonprofit 
corporation or organization as defined in 13-21-115.5 (3), C.R.S., and passenger 
vans and buses owned by any government agency are limited to purchasing no 
more than two additional annual affixed vehicle passes at a reduced fee per each 
annual affixed vehicle pass purchased at the full fee. For the purpose of this 
regulation, “household” is defined as persons living at the same address. 
“Owner” is defined as the person whose name appears on the registration of both 
the original vehicle for which an annual affixed pass was purchased and the 
additional vehicle, or a person who can provide proof of ownership of the original 
and the additional vehicle at a designated Division office.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
5 
7. 
If the motor vehicle for which an annual affixed vehicle pass, additional affixed 
vehicle pass, Aspen Leaf annual pass, or additional Aspen Leaf annual pass was 
issued is sold or traded, or if the pass is lost or destroyed during the period in 
which it is valid, the person to whom the pass was issued may obtain a duplicate 
thereof, upon signing an affidavit reciting where and by whom it was issued and 
the circumstances under which it was lost or traded. Customers who provide 
proof of necessary replacement shall be issued a replacement annual affixed 
vehicle pass, additional affixed vehicle pass, Aspen Leaf annual pass, or 
additional Aspen Leaf annual pass for the remainder of the period that the lost or 
destroyed pass would have been valid at no cost. Customers without proof of 
necessary replacement shall be provided a replacement annual affixed vehicle 
pass, additional affixed vehicle pass, Aspen Leaf annual pass, or additional 
Aspen Leaf annual pass effective for the remainder of the period that the lost or 
destroyed pass would have been valid upon payment of a fee pursuant to 
regulation #708.1.e.. 
8. 
If a state parks annual transferable pass is lost or destroyed during the period for 
which it is valid, the person whom the pass was issued may obtain a duplicate 
thereof, upon signing an affidavit where and by whom it was issued and the 
circumstances under which it was lost or destroyed. Upon payment of a fee of 
$60.00, a new pass effective for the remainder of the period the lost or destroyed 
pass would have been valid may be issued only by the Division to the original 
owner of such pass. Only one duplicate state parks annual transferable pass will 
be issued per period for which the original pass was valid. 
9. 
A daily park pass, valid for one day only, shall authorize entrance by motor 
vehicle to the state recreation areas and state parks, except Cameo Shooting 
and Education Complex, by the user and all passengers in the motor vehicle to 
which the pass is affixed during the day used and until 12:00 P.M. (noon) the 
following day. 
10. 
A no fee pass shall be issued to any vehicle towed or carried in by a motor home 
if a camping permit or proof of a campsite reservation is presented at an 
attended visitor center, office or entrance station. The no fee pass, valid for the 
same time period as the camping permit or camping reservation, shall authorize 
entrance by motor vehicle to the state recreation areas and state parks by the 
user and all passengers in the motor vehicle to which the pass is affixed. For the 
purpose of this regulation, motor home means a vehicle designed to provide 
temporary living quarters and which is built into, as an integral part of or a 
permanent attachment to, a motor vehicle chassis or van. 
11. 
Unless the owner of the vehicle opts out, a Keep Colorado Wild annual pass 
shall be assessed by the Department of Revenue (DOR) at the time a resident 
registers a passenger motor vehicle, light-weight truck, motorcycle, or 
recreational vehicle. The Keep Colorado Wild annual pass shall authorize the 
entrance of the associated motor vehicle to all state recreation areas and state 
parks, except Cameo Shooting and Education Complex, while the associated

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
6 
vehicle registration is valid. Such authorization shall apply to the user and all 
passengers in the motor vehicle. 
a. 
Commercial vehicles, as defined by § 42-1-102(17.5), C.R.S. are not 
eligible for the Keep Colorado Wild annual pass. 
b. 
A no-cost Keep Colorado Wild annual pass shall be issued by the 
Department of Revenue (DOR) through the vehicle registration process to 
all qualifying vehicles, that are exempt from DOR fees as specified in § 
42-3-213(1)(b)(II), C.R.S. 
c. 
Refunds for the Keep Colorado Wild pass purchased in error will be 
eligible for a refund through the division. Refunds for prorated overlapping 
annual passes will only be offered for the first two calendar years after the 
Keep Colorado Wild pass implementation. Refund applications involving 
overlapping passes purchased after December 31, 2024 will not be 
eligible for a refund. 
(1) 
A refund application for a Keep Colorado Wild pass submitted to 
the division within 60 days of purchase will be granted. A refund 
application for a Keep Colorado Wild pass submitted to the division 
after 60 days of purchase will be denied. 
(2) 
When an affixed annual, aspen leaf annual, or annual multiple pass 
overlaps with a Keep Colorado Wild pass for the same vehicle, the 
CPW annual pass will be eligible for a prorated refund. When a 
family annual pass overlaps with a Keep Colorado Wild pass, the 
family annual pass will be eligible for a prorated refund. 
a. 
If the annual pass has been used for 9 or more months it is 
non-refundable. 
b. 
Bulk annual park passes are non-refundable. 
c. 
For the family annual pass, the refund amount will be 
calculated from the date the refund application and the 
physical pass are received by the division. For all other 
annual passes, the refund amount will be calculated based 
on the date the refund application is submitted to the 
division. 
(3) 
Only one refund is allowed annually per vehicle, either the Keep 
Colorado Wild pass or the annual pass, whichever is submitted and 
processed first. 
Individual Passes

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
7 
#701 - Individual Passes 
1. 
Individuals sixteen years of age or older entering any state recreation area or 
state park by means other than a motor vehicle, such as on foot, bicycle, 
horseback, etc., shall have a valid parks pass issued by the Division or DOR 
carried on their person. Individuals entering by means other than a motor vehicle 
into Boyd Lake, Cameo Shooting and Education Complex, Chatfield, Cherry 
Creek, Cheyenne Mountain, Lake Pueblo, and Lone Mesa state parks may enter 
without purchasing a parks pass. Individual passes are not required at any state 
recreation area or state park under the circumstances identified in regulation # 
700-2.a. through # 700-2.e. and # 700-2.g. through # 700-2.k or for individuals 
under the age of sixteen. 
2. 
A Columbine, Centennial, Blue Spruce, Independence, Volunteer or Military Pass 
is issued to an individual person and not a specific vehicle. These shall authorize 
entrance by motor vehicle, when and where motor vehicle access is permitted, to 
all state recreation areas and state parks or for other forms of individual access, 
when in possession of the pass holder. Such authorization shall apply to the 
holder of the pass and all the passengers in, and the driver of, the motor vehicle 
carrying the holder of such pass. The pass must be continuously displayed in the 
manner described on the pass. A Columbine, Centennial, Blue Spruce, 
Independence, Volunteer or Military Pass is transferable from motor vehicle to 
motor vehicle as long as the pass holder is present in the vehicle. The Centennial 
pass may also be associated with the Centennial pass holder’s vehicle, if 
desired, at no additional cost. 
3. 
Any resident of the state who is a first responder with a permanent occupational 
disability as defined in state statute 33-4-104.5 (2) may obtain, free of charge, a 
Blue Spruce annual pass, also known as a Columbine annual pass for first 
responders pursuant to 33-12-103.5 (2.5), C.R.S. The pass will only remain valid 
as long as the individual maintains their Colorado residency as defined in 33-1-
102 (38) (a), C.R.S. 
a. 
In order to qualify for a Blue Spruce annual parks pass, a resident must 
provide the following written proof to the Division: 
(1) 
The “Initial Disability Administration Decision” form from the Fire 
and Police Pension Association that specifies a permanent 
occupational disability; or 
(2) 
For residents that are not members of the Fire and Police Pension 
Association, a fully completed Division “First Responder Affidavit” 
signed by the applicant attesting to the fact that their permanent 
disability or disease was obtained while on active-duty. 
4. 
A resident who is a disabled veteran or a resident who is a purple heart recipient 
may obtain an Independence annual parks pass pursuant to 33-12-106 (1) (b),

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
8 
C.R.S and 33-12-106 (1) (c), C.R.S. An Independence annual parks pass shall 
be issued following the Division’s receipt of a completed application from a 
qualified resident of the state. The pass will only remain valid as long as the 
individual maintains their Colorado residency as defined in 33-10-102 (21), 
C.R.S. 
a. 
In order to qualify for an Independence annual parks pass, a resident must 
provide the following written proof to the Division: 
(1) 
DD 214 Form or other documentation indicating the veteran 
received an Honorable Discharge from a branch of the Armed 
Services of the United States, AND 
(2) 
A qualification letter, on official stationary/letterhead, from the 
Veteran’s Administration, Department of Veteran’s Affairs, or the 
branch of service from which the veteran is receiving 
compensation, that states one of the following: 
a. 
50% or greater, service-connected permanent disability; 
b. 
Loss of use of one or both feet; 
c. 
Loss of use of one or both hands; or a 
d. 
Loss of vision in both eyes, OR 
(3) 
A DD 214 Form indicating the applicant has been awarded a purple 
heart, or a letter of verification from the appropriate branch of the 
armed forces of the United States that the applicant has been 
awarded a purple heart. 
5. 
A disabled resident may obtain a Columbine annual pass pursuant to 33-12-
103.5, C.R.S. A resident who qualifies for a Centennial annual pass may obtain 
such pass as provided for in this regulation. A Columbine or a Centennial annual 
parks pass shall be issued following the Division’s receipt of a completed 
application from a qualified resident of the state and the payment of the 
necessary fee. The pass will only remain valid as long as the individual maintains 
their Colorado residency as defined in 33-10-102 (21), C.R.S. 
a. 
In order to qualify for a Columbine annual parks pass, a resident must 
provide the following written proof to the Division: 
(1) 
A “Final Admission of Liability” form from the Division of Workers 
Compensation that indicates a total and permanent disability; or 
(2) 
A fully completed Division “Physician’s Affidavit” signed by a 
licensed physician attesting that the resident meets the definition of 
a total and permanent disability. A “total and permanent

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
9 
disability” shall mean any physical or mental impairment which 
prevents substantial gainful employment, but only if it is reasonably 
certain that such a disability will continue throughout the lifetime of 
the disabled person. 
b. 
In order to qualify for a Centennial annual parks pass, a Colorado resident 
must show a photo identification card and: 
(1) 
Provide written proof in the form of a federal or state income tax 
return from the immediately preceding calendar year that the 
federal taxable income of such individual is at or below one 
hundred percent of the official poverty line for an individual or a 
family, as appropriate to the applicant. If said tax return is not 
available, a return for the year immediately preceding such year 
shall suffice. Or, 
(2) 
If an individual’s income is at a level where such individual was not 
required to file a federal income tax return for the immediately 
preceding calendar year, such individual shall sign a statement 
under penalty of perjury in the second degree to such effect. No 
such affidavit shall be required to be notarized. Or, 
(3) 
Documentation in the form of a card or other verifiable written 
materials that the resident is currently enrolled in any one of the 
following programs: TANF (Temporary Assistance to Needy 
Families), WIC (Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for 
Women, Infants and Children), Health First Colorado (Colorado’s 
Medicaid program), SNAP (Supplemental Nutrition Assistance 
Program), FDPIR (Food Distribution Program on Indian 
Reservations), or LEAP (Low-income Energy Assistance Program. 
The pass will only remain valid as long as the individual maintains their 
Colorado residency as defined in 33-10-102 (21), C.R.S. The federal 
taxable income amounts, based on the number of people in the 
family/household, cannot be greater than those listed in the poverty 
guidelines set forth in the Annual Update of the HHS Poverty Guidelines, 
91 Fed. Reg. 1797 (January 15, 2026) issued by the U.S. Department of 
Health and Human Services, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning 
and Evaluation, Room 404E, Humphrey Building, Department of Health 
and Human Services, Washington, DC 20201. This federal guideline, but 
not later amendments to or editions thereof, has been incorporated by 
reference. Information regarding how and where the incorporated 
materials may be examined, or copies obtained, is available from: 
Regulations Manager 
Policy and Planning Unit 
Colorado Division of Parks and Wildlife

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
10 
6060 Broadway 
Denver, Colorado 80216 
c. 
The Columbine, Centennial, Independence, and Blue Spruce annual parks 
pass application shall be on a form provided by the Division. Blank 
applications shall be available, during regular business hours, at the 
Divisions’ regional offices, Denver offices, and service centers. 
d. 
Individuals applying to the Division for a Columbine, Centennial, 
Independence, or Blue Spruce annual parks pass must provide the 
following information: 
(1) 
Full name and address, including city, county, state and zip code; 
and 
(2) 
Phone number, unless the phone number is unlisted or non-
published; and 
(3) 
Date of birth and age; and 
(4) 
Physical description, including sex, height, weight, hair and eye 
color; and 
(5) 
Applicant’s signature and date of application; and 
(6) 
If applying for a Columbine annual parks, information concerning 
the nature of the applicant’s disability, together with supporting 
evidence of the same. 
(7) 
If applying for a Centennial annual parks pass, information 
concerning the applicant’s total annual income and number of 
people in the family/household, together with supporting evidence 
of the same or supporting evidence the applicant is currently 
enrolled in one of the programs listed in these regulations. 
(8) 
If applying for a Blue Spruce annual parks pass, information 
concerning the applicant’s first responder service and disability, 
together with supporting evidence of the same. 
(9) 
If applying for an Independence annual parks pass, required 
documentation supporting veteran’s status and disability 
qualifications or verification that the applicant has been awarded a 
purple heart. 
e. 
The Columbine, Centennial, Independence, and Blue Spruce annual parks 
pass application form shall contain language explaining that the completed 
and signed application, once submitted to the Division, will be treated in all 
respects as a sworn statement. The form shall also contain an oath that

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
11 
includes an affirmation attesting to the truth of that which is stated, the 
applicant is aware that statements made are intended to be represented 
as true and correct statements, and that false statements are punishable 
by law. 
f. 
At the time that an application for a Columbine or a Centennial annual 
parks pass is submitted to the Division, the appropriate fee shall also be 
paid. 
g. 
Pending the issuance of a Columbine, Centennial, Independence, or Blue 
Spruce annual parks pass, possession on the applicant of a bona fide 
copy of the application permits the applicant and others in the motor 
vehicle carrying the applicant entrance by motor vehicle to all state parks 
and state recreation areas, when and where motor vehicle access is 
permitted, for a period of thirty days following the date of filing the 
application with the Division or until receipt of notice from the Division 
either granting or denying the application request, whichever period of 
time is shorter. 
h. 
Within 15 days of the Division’s receipt of a completed Columbine or 
Centennial annual parks pass application and the appropriate fee 
payment, or Blue Spruce or Independence annual parks pass application, 
the Division shall review and approve or deny the application. 
(1) 
Completed applications shall be approved if the minimum 
qualifications set forth in this regulation are met. 
(2) 
Conversely, if the minimum qualifications are not met, then the 
application shall be denied. The applicant shall be notified in writing 
within five working days upon denial of a request. Such written 
notification shall include an explanation of the basis for denial and a 
refund of any fee paid. 
(3) 
The applicant may appeal this decision to the Division Director by 
notifying the Director in writing within sixty days of the Division’s 
mailing of the denial notice. A faster appeal will be necessary when 
the calendar year will end prior to the expiration of the sixty-day 
appeal period. 
(4) 
The address utilized by the Division for all mailings associated with 
the processing of a Columbine, Centennial, Independence, or Blue 
Spruce annual parks pass application shall be the address 
indicated on the application. 
i. 
If a Columbine, Centennial, Independence, or Blue Spruce annual pass is 
lost or destroyed during the period of time that it would otherwise would 
have been valid, the person to whom the pass was issued may obtain a

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
12 
duplicate thereof, free of charge, upon signing an affidavit reciting where 
and by whom it was issued and circumstances under which it was lost. 
6. 
The types of non-motor vehicle individual passes available from the Division are 
as follows: 
a. 
A non-motor vehicle individual daily pass, for all persons sixteen years of 
age or older, shall be carried on the individual’s person for all visitors 
entering state recreation areas and state parks as provided in regulation 
#701-1 and regulation #701-6.d. 
b. 
A non-motor vehicle individual annual pass issued to one pass holder, 
may be used for the pass holder and up to three additional visitors sixteen 
years of age or older. Such pass, shall be carried on the pass holder’s 
person for visitors entering state recreation areas and state parks as 
provided in regulation #701-1 and regulation #701-6.d. 
c. 
The receipt for an annual pass, a copy of the individual’s vehicle 
registration displaying a Keep Colorado Wild annual pass, a Division 
sponsored mobile application showing active status of a Keep Colorado 
Wild annual pass or other Division annual pass shall be carried on the 
pass holder’s person to be used as an individual annual pass, for the pass 
holder and up to three additional visitors sixteen years of age or older, for 
visitors entering all state recreation areas and state parks as provided in 
regulations #701-1 and regulation #701-6.d. 
d. 
The following rules apply to non-motorized access to Arkansas 
Headwaters Recreation Areas: 
(1) 
A non-motor vehicle individual daily pass, for all persons sixteen 
years of age or older, shall be carried on the individual’s person for 
all visitors entering the developed and posted fee sites of Arkansas 
Headwaters Recreation Area. 
(2) 
Or the receipt for an annual pass, or a copy of the individual’s 
vehicle registration displaying a Keep Colorado Wild annual pass 
shall be carried on the pass holder’s person to be used as an 
individual annual pass, and may be used for the pass holder and up 
to three additional visitors sixteen years of age or older for visitors 
entering the developed and posted fee sites of Arkansas 
Headwaters Recreation Area. 
e. 
If a non-motor vehicle individual annual pass is lost or destroyed during 
the period of time that it would otherwise would have been valid, the 
person to whom the pass was issued may obtain a duplicate thereof, free 
of charge, upon signing an affidavit reciting where and by whom it was 
issued and circumstances under which it was lost.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
13 
7. 
Volunteers for Colorado Parks and Wildlife are eligible for a volunteer park pass 
while serving in accordance with a signed individual volunteer agreement and 
after donating a minimum of 48 hours of approved volunteer service within a 
previous consecutive 12-month period. 
a. 
The volunteer park pass is valid for one year from the date of issue. 
8. 
Volunteers for Colorado Parks and Wildlife who are 64 years of age or older, 
regardless of their state of residence, are eligible for the senior volunteer park 
pass while serving in accordance with a signed individual volunteer agreement 
and after donating a minimum of 48 hours of approved volunteer service within a 
previous consecutive 12-month period. 
a. 
The senior volunteer park pass is valid for one year from the date of issue. 
9. 
A veteran is eligible for a no fee individual military pass during the month of 
August. 
a. 
In order to qualify for the no fee individual military pass, a veteran, 
reserve, or active duty member of any branch of the armed forces of the 
United States, must provide at least one form of past or present military 
identification to the Division in order to receive the free Military pass. 
Acceptable forms of military identification include: 
(1) 
DD214; 
(2) 
DD Form 2; 
(3) 
DD Form 2765; 
(4) 
Active, retired or veteran military identification cards; 
(5) 
A current Colorado Driver’s License or state issued identification 
card with the word ‘Veteran’ printed on it as specified in 42-2-303 
(5)(a), C.R.S.; 
(6) 
VA medical card. 
10. 
A no-fee individual “Check Out State Parks” Library Program Pass is available for 
check out from Colorado libraries. 
#702 - COMMISSION AUTHORITY 
1. 
The Commission may waive the requirement for a park pass, or it may close any 
state park or state recreation area, or portions thereof, whenever it finds the 
action necessary to protect and promote the health, safety and general welfare of 
the people of this state.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
14 
2. 
“Pass” as used in these regulations means a physical or electronic document or 
product provided for by statute, Commission rule or regulation and issued or 
required by the Division authorizing entrance to any state park or state recreation 
area. 
#703 – VACANT 
#704 - CAMPGROUND USE PERMITS AND GROUP CAMPGROUND USE PERMITS 
1 
No person shall camp in designated campgrounds or use any campground 
facilities of any park or recreation area unless such use is by authority of a valid 
campground-use permit issued by the Colorado Parks and Wildlife. 
2. 
In order to obtain a campground-use permit, a member of the camping party 
must be present with the camping unit, ready to make immediate occupancy of 
the campsite, or a reservation must be made through the approved campsite 
reservation system. Except as follows, no person may reserve or hold a campsite 
for another party by purchasing a campground-use permit for an additional site: 
a. 
A primary occupant must be identified for each campsite reserved. The 
primary occupant identified at the time of making the reservation is 
responsible for any fees, damages or law enforcement issues that arise 
from the occupants of the site. 
b. 
If an individual or organization wishes to reserve a campsite or group of 
campsites without identifying a primary occupant, the individual making 
the reservation is the responsible party for any damages or law 
enforcement issues that arise from the occupants of the site or sites. 
3. 
Possession of a valid campground-use permit visibly displayed at a place 
provided at each campsite shall authorize a single camping unit (tent, camper, 
etc.) occupied by a single family unit, or a maximum of six (6) persons to camp in 
a campsite for a single night until 12:00 P.M. (noon) the following day, unless the 
camping permit was purchased before 5:00 A.M., in which case it expires at noon 
the day of purchase. No person shall remove a valid campground-use permit or 
reservation card from the place provided for display prior to the expiration of such 
permit or card and/or occupy any campsite displaying such a permit or card or 
otherwise posted as already occupied by another party in accordance with these 
regulations. 
4. 
A valid vehicle or individual pass, as required by regulations # 700 and # 701 
respectively, shall be required for each motor vehicle for each night of camping. 
5. 
Definitions as used in these regulations, unless the context requires otherwise: 
a. 
“Full-Hookup Campground” means those with highly developed facilities. 
Individual campsites will be designated and include a high-use pad with 
table, grill and/or fire ring and individual pressurized water, sewer and/or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
15 
electrical connections. Flush toilets, lavatory and shower facilities, and 
trash receptacles will be available. Grocery store, food-service facilities, 
sanitary dump station, laundry facilities, or other developed amenities may 
be available. 
b. 
“Electrical Campground” means those with fairly developed facilities. 
Individual campsites will be designated and include a high-use pad, picnic 
table, grill and/or fire ring and individual electrical connections. 
c. 
“Tent-Only Campground” means those allowing only tents as the camping 
equipment. Individual campsites may have amenities similar to “Electrical 
Campgrounds” or “Basic Campgrounds” depending on the facility. 
d. 
“Basic Campground” includes those campgrounds providing basic facilities 
and improvements. Individual campsites shall be designated and include a 
table, grill and/or fire ring. 
e. 
“Primitive Campground” includes those campgrounds where only limited 
facilities or improvements are provided. Individual campsites may not be 
designated and may not include individual tables, grills or fire rings. 
Centrally located vault toilets and trash receptacles may be provided; 
however, drinking water generally will not be available. 
f. 
“Camping/To Camp” means either: 
(1) 
To occupy a campsite; or 
(2) 
To erect or use a tent or shelter of natural or man-made material, 
the placing or use of a sleeping bag or other bedding material, the 
parking of a motor vehicle, motor home, travel trailer, or any 
combination for the apparent purpose of occupancy overnight or 
use outside regular park use hours (5:00 A.M. to 10:00 P.M.) or as 
posted. 
g. 
“Camping Unit” is defined as one of the following: 
(1) 
Two tents and a passenger vehicle; or 
(2) 
One tent plus one motor home (Class A, B, C), motor vehicle, 
vehicle, trailer, slide-in truck camper, pop-up camper/trailer, boat, or 
other equipment of any description manufactured and/or used for 
the purposes of overnight occupancy. 
(3) 
A camping unit may include additional tents only in a campsite with 
a tent pad; provided the tents are contained on the pad and other 
camping unit and camping group limits are observed.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
16 
(4) 
One passenger vehicle in addition to the above descriptions is 
authorized only if available parking space exists. 
h. 
“Passenger Vehicle” means a motor vehicle not designed or used for 
overnight occupancy. 
#705 - ASPEN LEAF ANNUAL PASSHOLDERS 
1. 
A resident of this state who is sixty-four years of age or older may obtain an 
Aspen Leaf annual pass. The fee for an Aspen Leaf annual pass is identified in 
regulation #708. 
2. 
The Aspen Leaf annual pass holder must own in whole or in part any vehicle with 
a Colorado vehicle registration to which the Aspen Leaf annual pass is affixed 
and used to enter a state recreation area or state park area. Additional passes 
may be purchased pursuant to regulation #708(1)(d)(1). 
Current Aspen Leaf Lifetime pass holders may obtain a no-charge annual transferable 
pass, as long as the individual remains a Colorado resident, which can be used for any 
vehicle except passenger vans and buses operated by a commercial business. The 
Annual Transferable Pass is transferable from motor vehicle to motor vehicle as long as 
the pass holder is present in the vehicle. State parks annual transferable passes are 
issued to individuals, not vehicles. Only one vehicle at a time can use an annual 
transferable pass. A state parks annual transferable pass must be hung from the rear-
view mirror so that the pass may be observed and identified. Any vehicle whereby a 
pass cannot be secured inside the passenger compartment or hung from a rear-view 
mirror shall be treated as a special case, but evidence of a pass shall be required on the 
person or in the vehicle. Additional passes may be purchased pursuant to regulation 
#708(1)(d)(1). 
#706 - GROUP PICNIC AREA PERMITS 
1. 
No person shall use any facility or group picnic area unless such use is by 
authority of a valid permit issued by the Division. 
2. 
Definitions as used in these regulations, unless the context requires otherwise: 
a. 
“Class A – Deluxe Group Picnic Area” means those with highly developed 
facilities. The picnic area will be designated and include a covered shelter, 
picnic tables, a grill, and electrical connections. Restroom facilities, trash 
receptacles, water and lighting will be available. 
b. 
“Class B – Improved Group Picnic Area” means those with fairly 
developed facilities. The picnic area will be designated and include picnic 
tables and a grill. Trash receptacles and water will be available.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
17 
c. 
“Class C – Basic Group Picnic Area” means those providing basic 
facilities. The picnic area will be designated and include picnic tables and 
a grill. Sanitary facilities shall generally consist of vault-type toilets. 
#707 - CAMPGROUND AND DAY-USE RESERVATION CANCELLATION, AND 
CHANGE FEES 
1. 
The fees for cancelling a reservation for a campground site, group campground 
site, group picnic area, and event facility are as follows: 
a. 
If the cancellation is made seven days before the arrival date through the 
arrival date, 100% of the fee for one night or day-use permit will be 
retained. 
b. 
If the cancellation is made 28 days before the arrival date through 8 days 
before the arrival date, 50% of the fee for one night or day-use permit will 
be retained. 
c. 
If the cancellation is made more than 28 days before the arrival date, 25% 
of the fee for one night or day-use permit will be retained. 
d. 
If the cancellation is made between the day after the arrival date and the 
departure date, the fees for any nights or days passed will be retained. 
e. 
Cancellation fees are non-refundable, except in the case of a bona fide 
emergency or in the case of Division error. 
2. 
The fees for changing the reservation dates (arrival date and/or departure date) 
for a campground site, group campground site, group picnic area, and event 
facility are as follows, except there shall be no additional fee to change the 
departure date if the reservation is extended beyond the original departure date: 
a. 
If the change in the reservation dates is made seven days before the 
arrival date through the arrival date, 20% of the fee for one night or day-
use permit will be retained. 
b. 
If the change in the reservation dates is made 28 days before the arrival 
date through 8 days before the arrival date, 15% of the fee for one night or 
day-use permit will be retained. 
c. 
If the change in the reservation dates is made more than 28 days before 
the arrival date, 10% of the fee for one night or day-use permit will be 
retained. 
d. 
If the change in the reservation dates is made between the day after the 
arrival date and the departure date, the fees for any nights or days passed 
will be retained.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
18 
e. 
Reservation change fees are non-refundable, except in the case of 
Division error. 
3. 
There shall be no additional change fee for changing the site of a reservation at a 
campground, group campground, group picnic area, and event facility if the 
reservation dates remain the same or are further extended. If a customer 
changes the site of their reservation, they shall be charged or refunded the 
difference in the price for the site type only, if applicable. 
4. 
If a customer fails to occupy the site of their reservation during the selected dates 
or fails to contact the park, recreation area or vendor to inform them that they will 
not occupy the site of their reservation during the selected dates, the fees for any 
nights or days passed will be retained and the customer will be ineligible for a 
refund for those nights or days passed. 
5. 
If a customer makes a reservation for a campground site, group campground 
site, group picnic area, or event facility where one or more dates of the stay are 
more than six months from the reservation date, the reservation will be frozen to 
changes or cancellations for 14 days immediately following the date the 
reservation was created. 
#708 - Pass and Permit Fee Schedule 
1. 
The fees for the types of vehicle passes issued by the Division are as follows. 
a. 
Aspen leaf annual 
pass..........................................................................................$70.00 
b. 
Annual affixed vehicle 
pass....................................................................................................$80.00 
c. 
State parks annual transferable pass 
………………………………………………..$120.00 
d. 
Each additional annual affixed vehicle pass for noncommercial 
vehicles………....$40.00 
(1) 
Each additional Aspen Leaf vehicle pass for noncommercial 
vehicles…...$35.00 
e. 
Each replacement annual affixed vehicle pass, without proof of necessary 
replacement 
…………………….…………………….................................................$40.00 
(1) 
Each replacement additional annual affixed vehicle pass, without 
proof of necessary replacement 
…………..………………….…………………...........$20.00

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
19 
(2) 
Each replacement Aspen Leaf vehicle pass, without proof of 
necessary replacement 
………..………………………………….…………………...........$35.00 
(3) 
Each replacement additional Aspen Leaf vehicle pass, without 
proof of necessary replacement 
…..………………………………….………………………….…$17.50 
(4) 
Customers with proof of necessary replacement shall be issued a 
replacement annual affixed vehicle pass, additional annual affixed 
vehicle pass, or Aspen Leaf vehicle pass at no cost. Circumstances 
for necessary replacement include vehicle stolen, destroyed, 
traded, or sold; windshield replaced; pass damaged or faded; new 
legal name or address; or Division error. Other circumstances will 
be considered by the Division on a case-by-case basis. 
f. 
Each replacement state parks annual transferable vehicle pass 
……………..……..$60.00 
g. 
Each daily vehicle pass issued to a vehicle with a Colorado license plate 
(exceptions follow) 
………………………………………....………………………………….$10.00 
(1) 
At Chatfield, Elkhead Reservoir, Golden Gate Canyon, Pearl Lake, 
Stagecoach, State Forest, and Steamboat Lake State Parks 
…………………………$12.00 
h. 
Each daily vehicle pass issued to a vehicle with an out-of-state license 
plate (exceptions follow) 
……………………………………………………………………………..$15.00 
(1) 
At Chatfield, Elkhead Reservoir, Golden Gate Canyon, Pearl Lake, 
Stagecoach, State Forest, and Steamboat Lake State Parks 
…………………….……$17.00 
i. 
Each daily vehicle pass for a passenger van or bus operated by a 
commercial business: 
(1) 
carrying up to fifteen passengers………………………….......$10.00 
(2) 
carrying sixteen to thirty passengers…………………...…......$40.00 
(3) 
carrying more than thirty passengers………………………….$50.00 
j. 
Keep Colorado Wild annual pass, as provided for in section § 33-12-108, 
C.R.S., available for purchase through the Colorado Department of 
Revenue vehicle registration process starting with January 2023 vehicle 
registrations ……………$29.00

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
20 
k. 
Keep Colorado Wild Collector’s Plate pass, for applicable vehicles only 
and valid for the length of the vehicle registration. Available for purchase 
only through the Colorado Department of Revenue vehicle registration 
process starting with January 2023 vehicle registrations…………$145.00 
2. 
The fees for the types of individual passes issued by the Division are as follows. 
Eligibility requirements are stated in regulation # 701. 
a. 
Columbine or Centennial annual 
pass……………………………………….…..………$14.00 
b. 
Each replacement Columbine or Centennial annual pass shall be provided 
at no cost. 
c. 
Non-motor vehicle individual daily passes (applies to persons sixteen 
years of age or older) for all state recreation areas and state parks except 
as otherwise provided in these 
regulations...........................................................................................$4.00 
d. 
Non-motor vehicle individual annual passes (applies to persons sixteen 
years of age or older) for all state recreation areas and state parks except 
as otherwise provided in these 
regulations…………………………………………………………....…$29.00 
3. 
The fees for the type of campground-use permits issued by the Division are as 
follows. Campground classes are defined in regulation # 704. These fees do not 
include any applicable accommodations tax. 
a. 
Campground-use permit for “Full Hookup Campgrounds” 
………..……….…$41.00/night 
b. 
Campground-use permit for “Electrical Campgrounds” 
………………………$36.00/night 
c. 
Campground-use permit for “Tent-Only 
Campgrounds”………………………$36.00/night 
d. 
Campground-use permit for “Basic Campgrounds” 
………………..…………$28.00/night 
e. 
Campground-use permit for “Primitive Campgrounds” 
………………..……...$18.00/night 
4. 
The fees for the reduced rate campground-use permit for individuals age 64 and 
older who hold certain parks passes as outlined in #712 are as follows: 
a. 
Campground-use permit for “Full Hookup Campgrounds” 
……………..…….$38.00/night

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
21 
b. 
Campground-use permit for “Electrical Campgrounds” 
………..………….…..$33.00/night 
c. 
Campground-use permit for “Tent-Only 
Campgrounds”……….……………….$36.00/night 
d. 
Campground-use permit for “Basic Campgrounds” 
……….….…………......…$25.00/night 
e. 
Campground-use permit for “Primitive Campgrounds” 
………………..……….$15.00/night 
5. 
The fees for types of campground-use areas are as follows. Campground 
classes are defined in regulation # 704. These fees do not include any applicable 
accommodations tax. 
a. 
In group camp areas of “Full Hookup Campgrounds,” the fee shall be 
$41.00 per night per campsite assigned to such group area. 
b. 
In group camp areas of “Electrical Campgrounds,” the fee shall be $36.00 
per night per campsite assigned to such group area. 
c. 
In group camp areas of Tent-Only Campgrounds,” the fee shall be $36.00 
per night per campsite assigned to such group area. 
d. 
In group camp areas of “Basic Campgrounds,” the fee shall be $28.00 per 
night per campsite assigned to such group area. 
e. 
In group camp areas of “Primitive Campgrounds,” the fee shall be $18.00 
per night per campsite assigned to such group area. 
6. 
The fees for types of tipis, cabins and yurts are as follows. These fees do not 
include any applicable accommodations tax: 
a. 
For 
tipis...........................................................................................$50.00/night 
b. 
For small cabins and yurts that may accommodate a maximum of six 
people: 
(1) 
Standard.………………..……………………………….$90.00/night 
(2) 
Premium………………..………………………………$120.00/night 
c. 
For large cabins and yurts that may accommodate seven or more people: 
(1) 
Standard…………..…………………..…....................$120.00/night

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
22 
(2) 
Premium two 
bedroom....................................................................$150.00/night 
(3) 
Premium three 
bedroom………………………………………...........$190.00/night 
(4) 
Premium four 
bedroom………………………………….……….…….$250.00/night 
(5) 
Each additional premium bedroom over four 
bedrooms…….….…...$60.00/night 
d. 
For Mueller State Park Cabins: 
(1) 
Premium two 
bedroom……………………………………………….…$150.00/night 
(2) 
Premium three 
bedroom.………………………………………….……$210.00/night 
(3) 
Premium four 
bedroom.………………………………………….……..$270.00/night 
e. 
The maximum occupancy shall be posted in each cabin and yurt. 
f. 
There shall be an additional fee of $10.00/night for pets where pets are 
allowed. For barn and corral facilities, there shall be a boarding fee of 
$10.00/animal/night. 
g. 
Premium facilities contain showers and flush toilets. 
7. 
The group picnic area permit fees for the permits issued by the Division are as 
follows. Group picnic area classes are defined in regulation # 706. 
a. 
Permit for “Class A - Deluxe Group Picnic Area” ……….……$150.00 
b. 
Permit for “Class B - Improved Group Picnic Area” …….……$100.00 
c. 
Permit for “Class C - Basic Group Picnic Area” …………..…...$50.00 
8. 
Event facility permit fees are as follows. 
a. 
For Bridge Canyon Overlook and Pikes Peak Amphitheater at Castlewood 
Canyon State Park, Prairie Falcon Amphitheater at Cheyenne Mountain 
State Park, Soldier Canyon Shelter at Lory State Park, and Lyons 
Overlook at Roxborough State Park: 
(1) 
Monday through Friday……………………….….$150.00/2 HOURS

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
23 
(2) 
Saturday and Sunday………………………………$300.00/2 HOURS 
b. 
For event facilities numbers 1 and 3 at Castlewood Canyon State Park 
and Timber Event Facility at Lory State Park: 
(1) 
Monday through Friday……………………………..…..$100.00 
(2) 
Saturday and Sunday……………………………..…….$150.00 
c. 
For event facility number 2 at Castlewood Canyon State Park, Fountain 
Valley Overlook at Roxborough State Park and South Eltuck Event Facility 
at Lory State Park: 
(1) 
Monday through Friday………………………..……..…..$75.00 
(2) 
Saturday and Sunday…………………….…….………..$125.00 
d. 
For the Red Barn at Golden Gate Canyon State Park: 
(1) 
Monday through Friday………………………………..…$150.00 
(2) 
Saturday and Sunday……………………….…………..$200.00. 
e. 
For Mariner Point at Boyd Lake State Park: 
(1) 
Monday through Friday…………………………..…….…..$90.00 
(2) 
Saturday, Sunday, and holidays…………….…..……….$180.00 
f. 
For Prairie Skipper event facility at Cheyenne Mountain State Park: 
(1) 
Monday through Friday ……………………………$150.00/DAY 
(2) 
Saturday and Sunday…………………......……….$200.00/DAY 
g. 
For PA-CO-CHU-PUK event facilities at Ridgway State Park: 
(1) 
Single event shelter A or B: 
(a) 
Monday through Thursday……………..$125.00 plus $10 
non-refundable reservation fee/DAY 
(b) 
Friday through Sunday and holidays ….$190.00 plus $10 
non-refundable reservation fee/DAY 
h. 
For Overlook event facility at Ridgway State Park: 
(1) 
Monday through Thursday……….……$190 plus $10 non-
refundable reservation fee/ 4 HOURS

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
24 
(2) 
Friday through Sunday and holidays….$240 plus $10 non-
refundable reservation fee/ 4 HOURS 
i. 
Conference and/or meeting 
rooms…………………………...………..……...$100.00/DAY 
j. 
The maximum occupancy and hours of operation shall be posted at each 
event facility. 
9. 
The fees associated with dog off leash areas at Chatfield State Park and Cherry 
Creek State Park, as provided for in regulation # 100 are: 
a. 
Dog off-leash annual 
pass…………………………………….………………..………..$25.00 
b. 
Dog off-leash daily 
pass…………………………………..………………………….…...$3.00 
10. 
The fee associated with the mandatory youth education course for motorboat 
operators…$15.00 
11. 
The fees associated with the Cheyenne Mountain State Park Field/3D Archery 
Range are as follows: 
a. 
Daily individual archery range permit……………………………………$3.00 
b. 
Annual individual archery range permit…………………………..…….$30.00 
12. 
The fees associated with the Cameo Shooting and Education Complex are as 
follows: 
a. 
Individual passes: 
(1) 
Individual day use pass (single day) ………………………..…$12.00 
(2) 
Individual day use pass (5 consecutive days) …..………..…..$48.00 
(3) 
Individual day use pass (10 consecutive days) ..….……….…$84.00 
(4) 
Individual annual pass …………………………………………$150.00 
(5) 
Individual three-year pass …………………………….……….$400.00 
b. 
Youth (ages 7-17) individual passes: 
(1) 
Youth individual day use pass (single day) ……………….……$3.00 
(2) 
Youth individual day use pass (5 consecutive days) …....…. $12.00

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
25 
(3) 
Youth individual day use pass (10 consecutive days)..………$21.00 
(4) 
Youth individual annual pass ………………………………….. $50.00 
c. 
Two adult (Buddy) passes: 
(1) 
Two adult day use passes (single day) 
………………….……..$20.00 
(2) 
Two adult day use passes (5 consecutive days) 
………...……$80.00 
(3) 
Two adult day use passes (10 consecutive days) 
……….…..$140.00 
(4) 
Both adult passes must be used on the same day(s). 
d. 
Family passes (Two adults and all children (ages 7-17) that live at the 
same address): 
(1) 
Family annual pass 
…………………………………...…..………$300.00 
(2) 
Family three-year pass 
…………………………………….……..$600.00 
e. 
Group day use passes: 
(1) 
Day use passes for 10 to 19 individuals 
……………………$9.00/person 
(2) 
Day use passes for 20 to 29 individuals 
……………………$7.00/person 
(3) 
Day use passes for 30 or more individuals 
………….……..$3.00/person 
f. 
Corporate passes: 
(1) 
Annual corporate pass (10 unassigned passes per day) 
……..$3,000.00 
g. 
All annual passes for the Cameo Shooting and Education Complex are 
valid 365 days from the date of purchase. 
13. 
Colorado Search and Rescue (CORSAR) Cards 
a. 
1 year CORSAR 
Card……………………………………………..…………..….$5.00

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
26 
b. 
5 year CORSAR 
Card……………………………………………..………….…$20.00 
14. 
It is unlawful for any person to transfer, sell, or assign any pass or permit issued 
by the Division, including campground use permits, and group picnic area 
permits, unless otherwise permitted by these regulations. 
#709 - REGISTRATION FEE SCHEDULE 
1. 
The fees for types of vessel registrations issued by the Division are as follows: 
a. 
Vessel registration (including annual resident registration and each rental 
vessel registration): 
(1) 
For vessels less than twenty feet in length…….………….…..$35.00 
(2) 
For vessels twenty feet to less than thirty feet in length…..…$45.00 
(3) 
For vessels thirty feet or more in length…………………….…$75.00 
(a) 
Dealer registration for all vessels owned by a dealer which 
are operated for research, testing, experimentation, or 
demonstration purposes only: 
(i) 
When the dealer sells twenty-five or fewer vessels 
within the preceding year……………$45.00 
(ii) 
When the dealer sells more than twenty-five vessels 
within the preceding year……………$75.00 
(b) 
Manufacturer registration for all vessels owned by a 
manufacturer which are operated for demonstration or 
testing purposes only........$25.00 
(c) 
Nonresident annual vessel registration for a person from a 
state or country where registration is not 
permitted..............................$50.00 
2. 
The fees for the types of snowmobile registrations issued by the Division are as 
follows: 
a. 
Snowmobile registration (including annual resident registration and each 
rental snowmobile)................$50.00 
b. 
Dealer registration for all snowmobiles owned by a snowmobile dealer 
which are operated for demonstration or testing purposes only: 
(1) 
When the dealer sells twenty-five or fewer snowmobiles within the 
preceding year................$35.00

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
27 
(2) 
When the dealer sells more than twenty-five snowmobiles within 
the preceding year................$60.00 
c. 
Manufacturer registration for all snowmobiles owned by a manufacturer 
which are operated for research, testing, experimentation or 
demonstration purposes only.............................$35.00 
d. 
Nonresident annual snowmobile permit……..$50.00 
3. 
The fees for the types of off-highway vehicle registrations issued by the Division 
are as follows: 
a. 
Off-highway vehicle registration and nonresident off-highway vehicle 
permit.......$25.00 
b. 
Dealer registration for all off-highway vehicles owned by an off-highway 
vehicle dealer and operated for demonstration or testing purposes only: 
(1) 
When the dealer sells twenty-five or less off-highway vehicles 
within the preceding year................$35.00 
(2) 
When the dealer sells more than twenty-five off- highway vehicles 
within the preceding year………......$60.00 
c. 
Manufacturer registration for off-highway vehicles owned by a 
manufacturer which are operated solely for research, testing, 
experimentation, or demonstration purposes......$35.00 
d. 
Registration for off-highway vehicles owned by a lessor for rental 
purposes only: 
(1) 
When the lessor owns ten or less off-highway vehicles within the 
preceding year................$35.00 
(2) 
When the lessor owns more than ten off-highway vehicles within 
the preceding year.................$60.00 
4. 
A duplicate vessel, snowmobile, or off-highway vehicle 
registration..............................$5.00 
5. 
Backcountry Search and Rescue Fee for annual off-highway vehicle, snowmobile 
and vessel registration or permit………………$1.25 
#710 - Lone Mesa State Park Hunting Special Use Permit 
1. 
Purpose: This hunting management plan is designed to establish administration 
of hunting activities on Lone Mesa State Park. 
2. 
Special Use Permit Procedure

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
28 
a. 
Permit Numbers 
(1) 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife (CPW) deems hunting activities on 
Lone Mesa State Park as those which currently require “special 
planning and/or scheduling for proper management.” Therefore, 
CPW issues special use permits to visitors wishing to engage in 
hunting use of the park. 
(2) 
The maximum number of approved Hunting Special Use Permits 
(HUPs) on Lone Mesa State Park at any one time during the 
following big game seasons is: 
Archery: twenty (20) 
Muzzle-loading: twelve (12) 
1st separate elk rifle: fifteen (15) 
2nd combined deer/elk rifle: twenty-five (25) 
3rd combined deer/elk rifle: thirty-five (35) 
4th combined deer/elk rifle: thirty-five (35) 
(3) 
Each year, the Division, by action of the Park Manager, will allocate 
HUPs up to the maximums after evaluating harvest and other data 
in the interest of creating a high quality hunter opportunity 
consistent with wildlife objectives. 
b. 
Permit Fees 
(1) 
Successful permit applicants shall pay the fee associated with their 
HUP (see fee schedule section b.5) at least thirty (30) days prior to 
any access to Lone Mesa State Park. 
(2) 
Upon payment of the fee and attendance of the mandatory 
orientation session, an HUP shall be issued to the applicant. 
(3) 
If an applicant who is successful in the drawing (see section c.7.) 
fails to pay the HUP fee, a permit will not be issued to them. The 
next qualified applicant on the drawing log (see section c. 8.), or the 
next first-come, first-served applicant will be offered an HUP. 
(4) 
If, at a later date, an applicant's payment of the HUP fee is found to 
be insufficient due to payment stops, insufficient funds or any other 
reason, an HUP will not be issued to them. And, if an HUP had 
been issued prior to CPW discovering the insufficient payment, that 
permit will be voided.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
29 
(5) 
The schedule of fees associated with the HUP is as follows: 
(a) 
The fee for the HUP allowing Colorado residents access to 
Lone Mesa State Park to hunt during archery season, $100. 
(b) 
The fee for the HUP allowing Colorado nonresidents access 
to Lone Mesa State Park to hunt during archery season, 
$200. 
(c) 
The fee for the HUP allowing Colorado residents access to 
Lone Mesa State Park to hunt antlerless elk and/or 
antlerless deer during muzzleloading season, $100. 
(d) 
The fee for the HUP allowing Colorado residents access to 
Lone Mesa State Park to hunt antlered elk and/or antlered 
deer during muzzleloading season, $200. 
(e) 
The fee for the HUP allowing Colorado nonresidents access 
to Lone Mesa State Park to hunt antlerless elk and/or 
antlerless deer during muzzleloading season, $200. 
(f) 
The fee for the HUP allowing Colorado nonresidents access 
to Lone Mesa State Park to hunt antlered elk and/or antlered 
deer during muzzleloading season, $300. 
(g) 
The fee for the HUP allowing Colorado residents access to 
Lone Mesa State Park to hunt elk during the first elk-only 
rifle season, $150. 
(h) 
The fee for the HUP allowing Colorado nonresidents access 
to Lone Mesa State Park to hunt elk during the first elk-only 
rifle season, $250. 
(i) 
The fee for the HUP allowing Colorado residents access to 
Lone Mesa State Park to hunt antlerless elk and/or 
antlerless deer during the second, third, or fourth combined 
elk/deer rifle season, $100. 
(j) 
The fee for the HUP allowing Colorado nonresidents access 
to Lone Mesa State Park to hunt antlerless elk and/or 
antlerless deer during the second, third, or fourth combined 
elk/deer rifle season, $200. 
(k) 
The fee for the HUP allowing Colorado residents access to 
Lone Mesa State Park to hunt antlered elk and/or antlered 
deer during the second, third, or fourth combined elk/deer 
rifle season, $200.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
30 
(l) 
The fee for the HUP allowing Colorado nonresidents access 
to Lone Mesa State Park to hunt antlered elk and/or antlered 
deer during the second, third, or fourth combined elk/deer 
rifle season, $300. 
(6) 
Only one access permit is required per hunter, per season. A 
hunter possessing valid licenses for multiple species among deer, 
elk and bear will pay the highest applicable permit fee and can hunt 
with all valid licenses. The HUP continues to be valid until 
termination of the permitted season or harvest of all valid deer, elk, 
and bear licenses in the hunter’s possession, whichever comes 
first. 
c. 
Allocation of Permits 
(1) 
Advertising: it shall be the responsibility of the park manager or 
his/her designee to advertise the availability of HUPs for Lone 
Mesa through normal media and internet formats. 
(2) 
Application requests: requests for the application for the HUP on 
Lone Mesa State Park can be made by contacting the Lone Mesa 
State Park office: 1321 Railroad Ave, PO Box 1047, Dolores, 
Colorado 81323, Phone: 970-533-7065, Fax: 970-882-4640, e-mail: 
lone.mesa.park@state.co.us. Applications may also be accessed 
via the internet at www.cpw.state.co.us 
(3) 
Requests for permit applications shall be acted upon promptly, and 
an application for permit shall be mailed, faxed or e-mailed to the 
prospective permittee within five days of receiving the request. 
(4) 
Permit applications must be mailed, e-mailed, or faxed to the Lone 
Mesa State Park office at the above address prior to the application 
deadline. It is the applicant's responsibility to confirm receipt. 
(5) 
Permit applications will be secured by the park manager or his/her 
designee until the scheduled public drawing to be held at the Lone 
Mesa State Park office at least 60 days prior to the opening of the 
archery season. The public opening of applications will be 
advertised locally and to the applicants. 
(6) 
Once opened, the HUP applications will be checked for 
completeness, logged by applicant name, season desired, and 
application number, and a drawing “chip” - reflecting the application 
number- will be created for each complete and legible qualifying 
application. 
(7) 
Drawing: after applications are opened and logged in the 
application log, the drawing for successful applicants will take

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
31 
place. There will be drawings for each of the six big game seasons 
for which hunting will be permitted on Lone Mesa: archery, 
muzzleloading, 1st separate limited elk, 2nd combined deer and elk, 
3rd combined deer and elk, and 4th combined deer and elk. Permits 
will be issued up to the numbers outlined in this regulation, 
#601.2.a. 
(8) 
The drawing will continue until all “chips” are drawn, and a drawing 
log will be completed which will list the applicants in the order 
drawn. The drawing log will be used to facilitate fair re-allocation of 
permits per the re-allocation of unused permits protocol (see 
section 3.c.). 
(9) 
Successful applicants will be notified of their success by mail via a 
letter of successful application, which shall include a summary of 
rules associated with the HUP (a complete list shall be provided 
with the permit during the required orientation and information for 
remittance of the HUP fee). 
d. 
Reporting and Filing 
(1) 
All files pertaining to the HUP for Lone Mesa State Park will be 
stored at the Lone Mesa State Park office. 
(2) 
The park manager or designee will include a summary of hunting 
activity under permit on the park manager monthly report. 
(3) 
Revenues derived from the HUP fee will be deposited in the parks 
cash fund and reflected on the consignment usage/revenue report 
for the month such fees are deposited. 
3. 
Field Enforcement Procedure 
a. 
Possession of Permit 
(1) 
Copies of the permitted hunter list will be made available to 
commissioned CPW officers and the officers of other cooperating 
agencies in the interest of maintaining compliance with this plan. 
(2) 
It shall be the permittee's responsibility to adequately identify 
themselves as a permit holder when contacted while hunting in 
Lone Mesa State Park. 
b. 
Statute and Regulation Compliance 
(1) 
Permit holders will be supplied a list of rules associated with the 
HUP upon issuance of the permit. Failure to comply with the rules 
of the permit may result in permit revocation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
32 
(2) 
Nothing in this plan or in the rules of the HUP shall imply or be 
construed to imply that HUP holders are exempt from any statute or 
regulation governing hunting, motor vehicle operation, conduct on a 
state park, or other activity in which the permit holder may engage 
while performing the activities allowed under the permit. These 
statutes and regulations include, but are not limited to: 
(a) 
Permit holders must possess a valid license issued by CPW 
for the Game Management Unit, species, and season 
hunted. 
(b) 
Vehicles involved in hunting-use of the park are required to 
display or carry a valid Colorado State Parks pass, unless 
the vehicle displays a Disabled Veteran license plate or a 
Purple Heart license plate. 
c. 
Reallocation of Permits 
(1) 
Permit re-allocations may take place in the event a permittee is 
unable to engage in the activities of the permit for any reason, 
including sickness, death, hunting license revocation, permit 
revocation, park eviction, or simple changes in plans. 
(2) 
Re-allocations of HUPs will be conducted following this procedure: 
(a) 
The park manager or designee will attempt to contact the 
next individual on the drawing log by phone. 
(b) 
If the next individual is unable to be contacted upon the first 
call, the park manager or designee will continue down the 
drawing log until an individual can be contacted and notified 
of the availability of an HUP for Lone Mesa. 
(c) 
If no hunter on the drawing log can be contacted, no 
applicant is qualified, or none is available to hunt the 
remainder of the season, the availability of the HUP will be 
advertised by the park manager or designee and the permit 
may be allocated on a first-come, first-served basis. 
(d) 
Hunters who are contacted via the drawing log and who 
obtain or decline an HUP for Lone Mesa will have their name 
removed from the drawing log. 
(3) 
Re-allocated permits shall not be valid until payment of the HUP fee 
and attendance of the hunter orientation by the new permittee.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
33 
#711 - GOLDEN GATE CANYON STATE PARK HUNTING SPECIAL USE PERMIT 
1. 
Purpose: this hunting management plan is designed to establish administration of 
hunting activities on the Green Ranch portion of Golden Gate Canyon State 
Park. 
2. 
Special use permit procedure 
A. 
Permit numbers 
(1) 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife deems hunting activities on the Green 
Ranch portion of Golden Gate Canyon State Park as those which 
currently require “special planning and/or scheduling for proper 
management.” Therefore, the Division issues special use permits to 
visitors wishing to engage in hunting on the Green Ranch portion of 
the park. 
(2) 
The maximum number of approved hunting special use permits 
(HUPs) for the Green Ranch on Golden Gate Canyon State Park at 
any one time during the 2003 big game season is as follows: 
Archery (pre-muzzleloading and post-muzzleloading): twenty (20) 
Muzzle-loading: ten (10) 
1st separate elk rifle: ten (10) 
2nd combined deer/elk: ten (10) 
3rd combined deer/elk: ten (10) 
4th combined deer/elk: ten (10) 
(3) 
The number of HUPs allocated in each of the subsequent years will 
be determined by CPW after evaluating harvest and other data at 
the close of each year's hunting. 
B. 
Application and permit fees 
(1) 
Each applicant must submit a $10.00 application fee for each 
application submitted. 
(2) 
Successful permit application holders shall pay a special use permit 
fee of $100, which must be received by Golden Gate Canyon State 
Park (address below) prior to any access to the Green Ranch. 
(3) 
Upon payment of the fee, a HUP for the Green Ranch shall be 
issued to the applicant.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
34 
(4) 
If an applicant who is successful in the drawing (see section c.7) 
fails to pay the special use permit fee within 10 days prior to the 
start of the applicant’s season, a permit will not be issued to them. 
The next qualified applicant on the alternate list (see section c.8) 
will be offered an HUP. 
(5) 
If, at a later date, an applicant's payment of the HUP fee is found to 
be insufficient due to payment stops, insufficient funds or any other 
reason, an HUP will not be issued to them. If an HUP had been 
issued prior to CPW discovering the insufficient payment, that 
permit will be voided. 
C. 
Allocation of permits 
(1) 
Advertising: it shall be the responsibility of the park manager or 
his/her designee to advertise the availability of the HUPs for the 
Green Ranch through normal media and internet formats. 
(2) 
Application requests: requests for the application for the HUP for 
the Green Ranch can be made by sending a self-addressed 
stamped envelope (SASE) to Golden Gate Canyon State Park, 
Attn: Green Ranch Hunt: 92 Crawford Gulch Road, Golden, 
Colorado 80403, phone: 303 582-3707. Applications may also be 
accessed via the internet at www.cpw.state.co.us 
(3) 
Requests for permit applications shall be acted upon promptly, and 
an application for permit shall be mailed to the prospective 
applicant within five days of receiving the SASE. 
(4) 
Permit applications must be mailed to Golden Gate Canyon State 
Park at the above address and clearly marked “Green Ranch Hunt” 
on the envelope. All applications must be received by July 31st for 
the upcoming big game season. 
(5) 
Permit applications will be checked for completeness and require a 
copy of the hunting license, if applicable (for limited licenses). All 
complete and correct permit applications will be recorded for future 
use. 
(6) 
If additional information is needed to process the permit application, 
the park manager or his/her designee will make reasonable 
attempts to contact the applicant to rectify the application. 
(7) 
Drawing: the drawing will be held no later than the first Sunday in 
August. There will be one random drawing for each of the six 
seasons on the Green Ranch: pre-muzzleloading archery, 
muzzleloading, post-muzzleloading archery, 1st separate limited 
elk, 2nd combined deer and elk, 3rd combined deer and elk, and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
35 
4th combined deer and elk. Permits will be issued up to the 
numbers outlined in this regulation, #711.2.a. 
(8) 
Up to fourteen names will be drawn for each of the hunting 
seasons; a maximum of ten for the “hunter list” and four “alternates” 
for each season. If one of the hunters drawn does not wish to 
accept the HUP, an alternate will be contacted in the consecutive 
order that they were drawn. 
(9) 
Successful applicants will be notified of their success by mail via a 
letter of successful application, which shall include a summary of 
rules associated with the HUP (a complete list to be provided with 
the permit during the required orientation) and information for 
remittance of the special use permit fee. 
D. 
Reporting and filing 
(1) 
All files pertaining to the HUP for the Golden Gate Canyon State 
Park Green Ranch will be stored at the Golden Gate Canyon State 
Park office. 
(2) 
The park manager or his/her designee will include a summary of 
hunting activity under permit on the park manager monthly report. 
(3) 
Revenues derived from the HUP and application fee will be 
deposited in the parks cash fund and reflected on the consignment 
usage/revenue report for the month such fees are deposited. 
3. 
Field enforcement procedure 
A. 
Possession of permit 
(1) 
Copies of the “hunter list” will be made available to commissioned 
CPW officers and the officers of other cooperating agencies in the 
interest of maintaining compliance with this plan. 
(2) 
It shall be the permittee's responsibility to carry the access permit 
with them while hunting the Green Ranch portion of Golden Gate 
Canyon State Park. 
B. 
Statute and regulation compliance 
(1) 
Permit holders will be supplied a list of rules associated with the 
HUP upon issuance of the permit. Failure to comply with rules of 
the permit may result in permit revocation. 
(2) 
Nothing in this hunting management plan or in the rules of the 
special use permit shall imply or be construed to imply that HUP

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
36 
holders are exempt from any statute or regulation governing 
hunting, motor vehicle operation, conduct on a state park, or other 
activity in which the permit holder may engage while performing the 
activities allowed under the permit. These statutes and regulations 
include, but are not limited to: 
(a) 
Permit holders must possess a valid hunting license issued 
by CPW for the game management unit, species and season 
hunted. 
(b) 
Vehicle involved in hunting-use on the Green Ranch are 
required to display or carry a valid Colorado State Parks 
pass, unless the vehicle displays a disabled veteran license 
plate or a Purple Heart license plate. 
C. 
“Alternate” system 
(1) 
Alternate hunters may be contacted in the event a permittee is 
unable to engage in the activities of the permit for any reason, 
including sickness, death, hunting license revocation, permit 
revocation, park eviction or simple changes in plans. 
(2) 
Alternates will be contacted in the following manner: 
(a) 
The park manager or his/her designee will attempt to contact 
the next individual on the alternate list by phone. 
(b) 
If the next individual is unable to be contacted upon the first 
call, the park manager or his/her designee will continue 
down the alternate list until an individual can be contacted 
and notified of the availability of an HUP for the Green 
Ranch. 
(c) 
If no hunter on the alternate list can be contacted, the park 
manager or his/her designee will return to the applicant pool 
of the individual season and randomly draw up to four more 
alternates. This process will be continued until the hunting 
slot is filled by a qualified applicant. 
(d) 
If no hunter can be contacted, no applicant is qualified, or 
none is available to hunt the remainder of the season, the 
availability of the HUP will be advertised by the park 
manager or his/her designee and the permit may be issued 
on a first-come, first-served basis. 
(e) 
Hunters who are contacted via the hunting list or alternate 
list and who obtain or decline a HUP for the Green Ranch 
will have their name removed from the applicant pool.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
37 
(2) 
Alternate permits shall not be valid until payment of the HUP and 
application fee are made by the new permittee. 
D. 
Refund policy 
(1) 
Refunds will only be provided according to the current pass refund 
policy of the Division and by relinquishing the HUP for the Green 
Ranch before the opening day of the season for which the permit is 
valid. 
#712 - FEE WAIVERS, SPONSORSHIPS, MARKETING DISCOUNTS AND 
REDUCED RATE CAMPING 
1. 
As referenced in this chapter, “Park Product” means any entry pass, permit, 
facility, event or other user fee as defined in regulation # 700 through # 701, # 
704 through # 708 and #710 through #711. 
2. 
Park product fees may be waived for errors committed by the Division. 
3. 
Park product fees may be waived by the Division for Division sponsored 
education, outreach, volunteer or safety activities (events); for supporting partner 
activities (events) and research activities that directly support the Division; for 
official business by other governmental agencies conducted on a state recreation 
area or state park or for Division administrative purposes. 
4. 
The Division may waive entry fees as described in regulation # 700 through # 
701 up to four days annually to market and increase awareness of state 
recreation areas and state parks. 
5. 
Park Managers may provide any combination of park product(s) up to $500 in 
value per fiscal year, per park, to be used as a sponsorship as a part of a 
fundraiser, promotion or marketing effort for local community supporting partners. 
6. 
Region Offices and the Creative Services and Marketing Office may provide up 
to twenty annual affixed vehicle passes and twenty state parks annual 
transferable passes as defined in regulation # 700-3.b and #700-3.c. per fiscal 
year, per office, to be used as part of a regional or statewide fundraiser, 
promotion or marketing effort. In addition, Region Offices and the Creative 
Services and Marketing Office may provide daily vehicle passes as defined in 
regulation # No. 700-4 up to $500 in value per fiscal year, per office, to be used 
as part of a regional or statewide fundraiser, promotion or marketing effort. 
7. 
The Division may offer discounts up to 50 percent off established fees for annual 
affixed vehicle and daily vehicle passes as defined in regulation # 700-3 through 
# 700-4 as part of a consistent statewide effort to market state recreation areas 
and state parks.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
38 
8. 
Annual affixed vehicle passes or state parks annual transferable passes 
purchased in large quantities during a single sale, transaction will be discounted 
as follows. 
(a) 
Twenty or more passes, but less than fifty…………………..…....20% 
discount 
(b) 
Fifty or more passes, but less than one hundred…………….......25% 
discount 
(c) 
One hundred passes or more......................................................30% 
discount 
9. 
Notwithstanding the established campground fees, the Region Manager may 
lower a campground’s classification by one class, and consequently lower the 
campground fee, when the Region Manager determines that it is necessary to do 
so based upon one or more of the following criteria: 
(a) 
A significant increase in the vacancy rate for the campground exists. 
(b) 
A significant need to rehabilitate the campground facilities exists. 
(c) 
A temporary closure of campground facilities is necessary in order to 
implement repairs. 
Upon a determination by the Region Manager that the cause for lowering the 
campground classification has been abated, the original campground 
classification will be reinstated. 
10. 
Notwithstanding the established campground, cabin and yurt fees, the Regional 
Manager may reduce the fees for use of all campsites, cabins and yurts when 
determined necessary to encourage occupancy and otherwise increase use, up 
to 50 percent. 
11. 
Notwithstanding the established event facility permit fees, the Regional Manager 
may offer half-day facility rentals and reduce the fees for use of event facilities 
when determined necessary to encourage occupancy and otherwise increase 
use, up to 50 percent. 
12. 
Colorado residents age 64 or older at the time of reservation qualify for a 
reduced rate camping permit as outlined in #708 provided they hold one of the 
following valid passes at the time of reservation and the time of the stay: 
a. 
Aspen Leaf annual pass per regulation #705, Columbine, Centennial, Blue 
Spruce, Independence, Non-motor vehicle individual annual, or a Keep 
Colorado Wild annual pass per regulation #700 that has been manually 
linked to their CPW Shop account annually. Or,

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
39 
b. 
Individuals age 64 and older who hold a valid volunteer pass. 
c. 
This reduced rate applies to all nights of the year when such areas are 
open, except weekend nights and the night before a legal holiday. For the 
purpose of determining reduced rate campground permit eligibility, 
“weekend” night means the time period beginning at 12 noon on Friday 
through 12 noon on Sunday, and the night before a legal “Holiday” shall 
mean the time period beginning at 12 noon on the day prior to the legal 
holiday through 12 noon of the legal holiday. The discount is only valid for 
a single campsite per day, per pass holder. The pass holder must also be 
the one to make the reservation and be an occupant of the campsite for 
the entirety of the reservation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
40 
Editor’s Notes 
Chapters of 2 CCR 405-1 have been recodified effective 05/01/2013. See list below. 
Versions prior to 05/01/2013 can be found in 2 CCR 405-1. Prior versions can be 
accessed from the All Versions list on the rule’s current version page. 
Chapter 1 has been recodified as 2 CCR 405-1, CHAPTER P-1 - PARKS AND 
OUTDOOR RECREATION LANDS. 
Chapter 2 has been recodified as 2 CCR 405-2, CHAPTER P-2 - BOATING. 
Chapter 3 has been recodified as 2 CCR 405-3, CHAPTER P-3 - RIVER OUTFITTERS. 
Chapter 4 has been recodified as 2 CCR 405-4, CHAPTER P-4 - SNOWMOBILE 
REGULATIONS. 
Chapter 5 has been recodified as 2 CCR 405-5, CHAPTER P-5 - OFF-HIGHWAY 
VEHICLE REGULATIONS. 
Chapter 6 has been recodified as 2 CCR 405-6, CHAPTER P-6 - [Repealed eff. 
11/01/2017]. 
Chapter 7 has been recodified as 2 CCR 405-7, CHAPTER P-7 - PASSES, PERMITS 
AND REGISTRATIONS. 
Chapter 8 has been recodified as 2 CCR 405-8, CHAPTER P-8 - AQUATIC NUISANCE 
SPECIES (ANS). 
History 
Rules # 701, 704, 708 eff. 05/01/2013. 
Rules # 708 14-708 16 emer. rules eff. 09/12/2013. 
Rules # 708 14-708 16 eff. 11/01/2013. 
Rules # 701 6, 702, 704 5.e, 705 4, 708 7.g, 708 10.g-708 10.k, 708 16.c, 711 1.i, 712 1 
eff. 05/01/2014. 
Rules # 701 6, 705 4, 708 1, 708 10.g-708 10.k eff. 05/01/2015. 
Rules # 700 2.e, 700.2 j-k emer. rules eff. 07/09/2015. 
Rules # 700 2.e, 700 2.j-k, 708 4-708 7 eff. 11/01/2015. 
Rule # 703 eff. 03/01/2016. 
Rules # 701 16, 701 17, 704 1, 704 3, 704 5.f-h, 708 7.g, 708 10.f(2) eff. 05/01/2016 
Rule # 701 eff. 07/01/2016. 
Rule # 704 eff. 11/01/2016. 
Rules # 700 1, Article II eff. 03/02/2017. 
Rule # 700 2.l eff. 08/01/2017. 
Entire rule eff. 11/01/2017. 
Rules # 708 8, 717, 718 eff. 01/01/2018. 
Rule # 700 2.m eff. 07/01/2018. 
Rules # 703 1-3, 708 14-15 eff. 11/01/2018. 
Rules # 700, 701 2, 701 4-5, 703 6, 708 1-9, 708 11, 710 2.a.(2), 712, 720 
eff.01/01/2019.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-7 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
41 
Rule # 720 B eff. 03/02/2019. 
Rules # 700 2.f, 701 2-10, 704 2, 708 5, 712 12 eff. 11/01/2019. 
Rules # 700 1, 700 3, 700 5-6, 700 8, 701 5-6, 702 2, 708 1.c, 708 1.f, 710 2.c.(2), 712 
6, 712 8, 720 A.4 eff. 01/01/2020. 
Rules # 700 4.a, 705 2-3, 708 1.g eff. 03/01/2020. 
Rule # 722 emer. rule eff. 03/31/2020; expired 07/29/2020. 
Rules # 703 1, 703 4, 708 3.c eff. 06/30/2020. 
Rules # 700 2.f, 701, 708 5, 712 12 eff. 09/01/2020. 
Rules # 701 6, #701 7.a, 708 2.c emer. rules eff. 09/03/2020. 
Rules # 701 5.b, 701 7.b, 704 5, 708 4 - 708 7 eff. 11/01/2020. 
Rules # 700 4.a, 701 5.b, 701 6, 701 7.a, 708 1.g, 708 2.c, 712 10, 712 11, 720 A.4 eff. 
01/01/2021. 
Rule # 701 5.b eff. 07/01/2021. 
Rules # 700 2.e, #701 4, #701 5.d.(9), #710 3.b.(2)(b), #711 3.B.(2)(b) emer. rules eff. 
09/01/2021. 
Rules # 700 2.e, 700 7, 701 4, 701 5.d.(9), 701 5.i, 706, 707, 708 1.e, 708 2.b, 708 8-
14, 710 3.b.(2)(b), 711 3.B.(2)(b) eff. 11/01/2021. 
Rules # 700 7, 708 1.e.3-4, 720 A.4 eff. 01/01/2022. Rule # 704 6 repealed eff. 
01/01/2022. 
Rules #700 3.d, 701 5.b, 708 1.i eff. 05/01/2022. 
Rules #700 1, 700 5-6, 700 9, 700 11, 701 1-2, 701 6-10, 708 1.j, 708 2.c-d, 708 5, 710 
3.b.(2)(b), 411 3.B.(2)(b), 712 12 eff. 11/01/2022. 
Rules #700 4.a, 701 5.b, 701 5.d.(7), 701 6.e, 708 1.g, 708 5, 708 9.a, 712 12, 720 A.4 
eff. 01/01/2023. 
Rules #701 5.b, 701 5.d.(7) eff. 05/01/2023. 
Rules #708 14-15, 716 A.1.n, 720 A.4 eff. 03/01/2024. 
Rule #701 5.b eff. 05/01/2024. 
Article II repealed eff. 07/01/2024. 
Rules #700 11.c, 705 3, 708 7.d eff. 10/01/2024. 
Rules #700 2.g-l, 700 4, 701 1, 708, 712 1 eff. 01/01/2025. Rule #703 repealed eff. 
01/01/2025. 
Rules #701 5.b, 709 2.a, 709 2.d eff. 05/01/2025. 
Rules #700 4.a.3, 708 1.g(1), 709 5, eff. 01/01/2026. 
Rules #700.4, 701.5 b, 708.1 g-k eff. 05/01/2026.
