---
id: "2_CCR_406-10"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1000 - Protected Species"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12527&fileName=2%20CCR%20406-10&type=pdf"
---

#### 2_CCR_406-10. 1000 - Protected Species

1 
Department of Natural Resources 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
CHAPTER W-10 - NONGAME WILDLIFE 
2 CCR 406-10 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
ARTICLE I - General Provisions 
#1000 - Protected Species 
A. 
Nongame species and subspecies, including threatened or endangered wildlife 
are protected and their harassment, taking or possession is prohibited except as 
follows: 
1. 
Under a scientific collecting license. 
2. 
Under a rehabilitation license. 
3. 
Under a license for zoological, educational, propagation or other special 
purposes. 
4. 
Allowed species of raptors under a falconry license. 
5. 
Bats, mice except Preble’s meadow jumping mouse (Zapus hudsonius 
preblei), voles, rats, porcupines, and ground squirrels may be captured or 
killed when creating a nuisance or causing property damage. 
6. 
Under a resident herpetofauna collection and possession license, or 
legacy possession as authorized in Chapter W-7.: 
7. 
Herping as authorized in Chapter W-7. 
8. 
Threatened or endangered wildlife may be possessed if legally taken in 
and transported from another state or country and legally imported into the 
United States and Colorado. 
9. 
Any peregrine falcon legally held in captivity which is: 
a. 
Possessed and banded in compliance with the terms of a valid 
permit issued by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service; or 
b. 
Identified in the earliest applicable annual report required to be filed 
by a permittee under Title 50, Code of Federal Regulations, as in a 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-10 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
2 
permittee's possession on November 10, 1978, or as the progeny 
of such raptor. 
c. 
Provided, however, if a peregrine falcon otherwise excepted under 
this paragraph 8 is intentionally returned to the wild, it shall 
thereafter be deemed to be wild and subject to protection as a 
threatened or endangered species, as if it had never been reduced 
to lawful possession. 
10. 
Greenback cutthroat trout may be taken under catch and release 
regulations in certain drainages within Rocky Mountain National Park, in 
the Cache la Poudre drainage, or in accordance with restrictions for 
individual waters found in #108 A. 
11. 
Livestock owners and their agents are authorized to use non-injurious 
hazing techniques when necessary to prevent or reduce injury or 
damages to livestock and guard animals caused by gray wolves (Canis 
lupus). For purposes of this rule, “livestock” is defined in § 35-1-102(6), 
CRS. 
a. 
“Non-injurious hazing techniques” means the use of:  
(i) 
Livestock herding or guard animals,  
(ii) 
Fladry or electrified fladry,  
(iii) 
Cracker shells,  
(iv) 
Scare devices or tactics including propane cannons, 
vehicles, ATVs, range riders, noisemakers, fox lights and 
motion- and radio-activated guard devices.  
b. 
Hazing must be consistent with federal law. If gray wolves are on 
the list of federally endangered or threatened species, hazing that 
creates a likelihood of injury or actually injures or kills wolves is 
prohibited unless authorized by the Division or by the U.S. Fish and 
Wildlife Service or its agents. 
12. 
The Division may issue permits to livestock owners for intentionally 
injurious, non-lethal hazing of gray wolves after confirming gray wolf 
activity on a specific parcel of private land owned by the applicant or 
private or public land leased by the applicant for livestock production. The 
permit authorizing such activities is valid for not longer than one year and 
will contain additional terms and conditions, including a description of 
where such activities may occur. Any person who injures or kills a gray 
wolf must report the injury or death to the Division within 24 hours, unless 
impracticable, but in no event later than 72 hours. Fatal injury to wolves 
resulting from non-lethal hazing is prohibited.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-10 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
3 
B. 
Take of Nongame, Threatened or Endangered Species 
1. 
Any person may take nongame, threatened or endangered wildlife in 
defense of their life or the life of other people. Any person who takes such 
action must report the same to the Division within 24 hours, unless 
impracticable, but in no event later than 72 hours. 
2. 
All threatened or endangered fish taken by any means shall be returned 
unharmed to the water immediately. 
3. 
While conducting an otherwise lawful activity, including, but not limited to, 
live trapping or hunting bobcat, taking action pursuant to 33-6-207, C.R.S., 
to protect livestock, protection of livestock through the use of guard dogs, 
or taking action pursuant to 33-3-106, C.R.S., to prevent death or injury to 
human life or livestock, a Canada lynx is: 
a. 
accidentally captured, but not injured, it shall be released 
immediately and the capture shall be reported to the Division within 
24 hours; 
b. 
accidentally injured, but not in the possession of the person, the 
injury shall be reported to the Division within 24 hours; 
c. 
accidentally injured and in the possession of the person, the 
Canada lynx shall be immediately delivered to the Division or taken 
to a licensed veterinarian for appropriate care and reported to the 
Division within 24 hours; 
d. 
accidentally killed, then it shall be reported to the Division within 24 
hours and the carcass shall be delivered to the Division within 3 
(three) days of the report. 
Any failure to provide the required notice to the Division or to deliver the 
injured or dead Canada lynx to the Division within the time periods allowed 
shall be prima facie evidence of unlawful take and possession of Canada 
lynx. 
For the purposes of this subsection, “accidental” specifically excludes any 
intentional, knowing or negligent action on behalf of any person or a 
person’s agent or employee. 
4. 
The Division may capture, remove, transport, release, or destroy gray 
wolves where necessary to protect human health or safety. 
C. 
Intentionally Luring Gray Wolves

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-10 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
4 
Unless permitted by the Division, it is unlawful for any person to use an electronic 
call device or place any olfactory attractant with the intent to lure gray wolves 
(Canis lupus). 
D. 
As used in this Chapter, the following definitions apply unless the context 
requires otherwise: 
1. 
Conflict minimization measures means lawful, nonlethal materials and 
techniques used by owners of livestock for purposes of avoiding, 
minimizing, or mitigating gray wolf damage to livestock. Conflict 
minimization measures include hazing techniques authorized in this 
Chapter. 
2. 
In the act of attacking means the actual biting, wounding, grasping, or 
killing of livestock or working dogs, or chasing, molesting or harassing by 
wolves that would indicate to a reasonable person that such biting, 
wounding, grasping, or killing of livestock or working dogs is likely to occur 
at any moment. 
3. 
Livestock means cattle, horses, mules, burros, sheep, lambs, swine, 
llama, alpaca, goats and domestic bison, including hybrids with domestic 
cattle. 
4. 
Livestock owner means owners of livestock, their immediate family 
members, agents, employees, contractors, or volunteers. A livestock 
owner may be an owner or lessee of private land where livestock are 
legally grazed or a lessee of or permittee on public land for the purposes 
of grazing and raising livestock. 
5. 
Working dogs means dogs regularly used for herding or guarding 
livestock. 
#1001 - AUTHORIZATION FOR REMOVAL, CAPTURE OR DESTRUCTION OF 
ENDANGERED, THREATENED, OR NONGAME GRAY WOLVES 
A. 
Colorado Division of Parks and Wildlife Employees and Agents 
1. 
Capture and relocation of nongame, endangered, or threatened gray 
wolves is prohibited except as carried out by the Division or its agents or 
by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service or its agents. 
B. 
Injurious and Lethal Take of Wolves In the Act of Attacking Livestock or Working 
Dogs 
1. 
Injurious and lethal take of gray wolves by livestock owners is permitted 
when a wolf is observed in the act of attacking livestock or working dogs, 
but only in accordance with these regulations.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-10 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
5 
2. 
A permit is required for livestock owners to engage in injurious or lethal 
control of gray wolves caught in the act of attacking livestock or working 
dogs. (“In The Act Permits”). Take of wolves attacking a pet or hunting dog 
is not authorized. 
3. 
The Division will issue a permit to a livestock owner (Permit Applicant) 
retroactively authorizing take of gray wolves observed in the act of 
attacking livestock or working dogs, provided the following conditions are 
met. 
a. 
The attack on livestock or working dogs must have taken place on 
the Permit Applicant’s private property or on private, state, or 
federal lands leased for livestock grazing or production under a 
valid lease held by the Permit Applicant. 
b. 
The Permit Applicant must preserve and provide evidence that the 
gray wolves were in the act of attacking livestock or working dogs 
at the time the wolves were injured or killed. 
i. 
The carcass of the wolf or wolves and of any animals the 
wolves were attacking, as well as the surrounding area, must 
not be disturbed in order to preserve the requisite physical 
evidence. Where no carcass is present, acceptable physical 
evidence includes but is not limited to photographs or video 
with GPS coordinates attached. 
4. 
In order to obtain a retroactive permit from the Division, the Permit 
Applicant must notify the Division of injury or death to gray wolves within 
24 hours of such injury or death unless impracticable, but in no event later 
than 72 hours after such injury or death. Wolves injured or killed under 
these permits will remain the property of the state. 
5. 
The Division shall not issue any permit under this subsection #1001.B (In 
The Act Permits) unless the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has adopted a 
rule under section 10(j) of the Endangered Species Act designating and 
providing management flexibility for a non-essential experimental 
population of wolves in Colorado and that rule is effective at the time of 
the issuance of any In The Act Permit. Further, the Division shall not issue 
an In the Act Permit for any act that injured or killed a wolf in violation of 
the Endangered Species Act and its regulations in place at the time of the 
act. 
C. 
Injurious and Lethal Take of Chronically Depredating Gray Wolves 
1. 
The Division will make the determination as to whether a situation qualifies 
for a Chronic Depredation Permit after considering the following factors:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-10 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
6 
a. 
Documented repeated depredation and harassment of the Permit 
Applicant’s livestock or working dogs caused by the wolf, wolves, or 
pack targeted; 
b. 
Use of a variety of nonlethal conflict minimization materials and 
techniques; 
c. 
Likelihood that additional and continued wolf-related depredation 
would continue if lethal control is or is not implemented; 
d. 
Unintentional or intentional use of attractants that may be luring or 
baiting wolves to the location. 
2. 
Consistent with state and federal law, injurious or lethal control of wolves 
that have engaged in confirmed depredation(s) of livestock will be 
conducted by state or federal agents if the Division determines lethal 
control of the identified wolves is appropriate under the circumstances. 
3. 
If state and federal agencies do not have the capacity to carry out the 
timely implementation of the necessary lethal control measures, the 
Division may issue a Chronic Depredation Permit for the lethal take of 
wolves to a livestock owner (Permit Applicant), consistent with the 
conditions below. A Chronic Depredation Permit authorizes a holder to 
injure or kill wolves in the permit area, regardless of whether they are in 
the act of attacking livestock or working dogs. 
a. 
The Permit Applicant must have suffered at least one wolf 
depredation of their own livestock or working dogs, and the Division 
must have confirmed the depredation within 30 days prior to 
requesting a Chronic Depredation Permit. 
b. 
The Division must determine that the Permit Applicant employed 
reasonable conflict minimization techniques prior to receiving a 
Chronic Depredation Permit. 
c. 
The permit may authorize lethal take of wolves only on the Permit 
Applicant’s private property or on private, state, or federal lands 
leased for livestock production under a valid lease held by the 
Permit Applicant. 
d. 
The permit authorizing such activities will contain additional terms 
and conditions, including a limitation on how many wolves may be 
taken under the Permit and may, in the discretion of the Division, 
authorize the use of artificial light, electronic night vision equipment, 
electronically enhanced light-gathering optics, and thermal imaging 
devises.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-10 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
7 
e. 
A Chronic Depredation Permit is valid for a maximum of 45 days. 
The Division may terminate the Permit at any time once threats to 
livestock or working dogs have been resolved or minimized. After 
the initial 45 days, the Permit may be renewed at the Division’s 
discretion. 
f. 
Death or injury to wolves must be reported to the Division within 24 
hours unless impracticable, but in no event later than 72 hours after 
such death or injury. 
4. 
The Division shall not issue any Chronic Depredation Permit under this 
subsection #1001.C unless the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has adopted 
a rule under section 10(j) of the Endangered Species Act designating and 
providing management flexibility for a non-essential experimental 
population of wolves in Colorado and that rule is effective at the time of 
the issuance of any Chronic Depredation Permit. 
D. 
Wolf specimen disposition 
1. 
The entire carcass of wolves killed by private individuals for any purpose, 
legal or illegal will be returned to CPW and remain state property, 
regardless of whether the incident occurred on public or private land. 
E. 
Chapter W-16 of these rules codifies the procedures applicable to securing 
authorization from the Division to injuriously or lethally take gray wolves, 
including retroactive authorization for take of wolves caught in the act of attacking 
livestock or working dogs. 
F. 
Permits for intentionally injurious, non-lethal hazing of gray wolves issued 
pursuant to W-10, #1000.A.11 and permits for injurious and lethal take of gray 
wolves in the act of attacking livestock or working dogs issued pursuant to W-10, 
#1001.B authorize the livestock owner to use artificial light, electronic night vision 
equipment, electronically enhanced light-gathering optics, and thermal imaging 
devices. State and federal agencies may use such technologies to haze, injure or 
kill gray wolves where otherwise authorized by law. Livestock owners and their 
agents may use such technologies to conduct non-injurious hazing as authorized 
pursuant to W-10, #1000.A.10. 
G. 
If a livestock owner’s livestock are part of a herd composed of livestock owned by 
multiple owners, any owner of livestock in the same herd may also qualify for any 
of the gray wolf permits authorized in this chapter. 
ARTICLE II - ENDANGERED WILDLIFE 
#1002 - DESIGNATION OF SPECIES 
A. 
Endangered Species Designation: The following wildlife are hereby declared 
endangered.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-10 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
8 
1. 
Fish: 
Bonytail 1 
Razorback Sucker 1 
Rio Grande Sucker 
Northern Redbelly Dace 
Southern Redbelly Dace 
Plains Minnow 
Suckermouth Minnow 
Lake Chub 
2. 
Birds: 
Plains Sharp-tailed Grouse 
Whooping Crane 1 
Least Tern 1 
Southwestern Willow Flycatcher 1 
3. 
Mammals: 
Kit Fox 
Gray Wolf 1 
Grizzly Bear 2 
Black-footed Ferret 1 
Wolverine 
Lynx 2 
4. 
Amphibians: 
Boreal (Western) Toad 
1 Appears on Federal List as Endangered. 
2 Appears on Federal List as Threatened. 
ARTICLE III - THREATENED WILDLIFE 
#1003 - DESIGNATION OF SPECIES 
A. 
The following wildlife are hereby declared threatened. Any threatened fish taken 
by any means shall be returned unharmed to the water immediately. 
1. 
Fish 
Colorado pikeminnow 1 
Humpback Chub 1 
Greenback Cutthroat Trout 
Arkansas Darter 
Brassy Minnow

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-10 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
9 
Common Shiner 
2. 
Birds: 
Mexican Spotted Owl 2 
Burrowing Owl 
Lesser Prairie Chicken 
Piping Plover 2 
3. 
Mammals: 
Northern River Otter 
Preble’s meadow jumping mouse 
1 Appears on Federal List as Endangered 
2 Appears on Federal List as Threatened 
ARTICLE IV - Nongame Wildlife 
#1004 - Designation of Species 
A. 
The following wildlife are hereby declared nongame wildlife. 
1. 
Fish: 
Greenback Cutthroat Trout  
Colorado pikeminnow 
Humpback Chub  
Bonytail  
Colorado Roundtail Chub  
Lake Chub  
Flathead Chub  
Rio Grande Chub 
Plains Minnow  
Suckermouth Minnow  
River Shiner  
Northern Redbelly Dace  
Southern Redbelly Dace  
Razorback Sucker  
Rio Grande Sucker  
Bluehead Sucker  
Flannelmouth Sucker  
Mountain Sucker  
Arkansas Darter  
Plains Orangethroat Darter  
Iowa Darter  
Stonecat  
Plains Topminnow

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-10 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
10 
2. 
Amphibians: 
Plains Spadefoot Couch's Spadefoot 
Great Basin Spadefoot 
Mexican Spadefoot 
Boreal (Western) Toad 
Great Plains Toad 
Green Toad 
Red-spotted Toad 
Woodhouse's Toad 
Northern Cricket Frog 
Canyon Treefrog 
Boreal Chorus Frog 
Plains Leopard Frog 
Northern Leopard Frog 
Wood Frog 
Western Narrow-mouthed Toad 
3. 
Reptiles: 
Yellow Mud Turtle  
Painted Turtle  
Ornate Box Turtle  
Spiny Softshell  
Eastern Collared Lizard  
Long-nosed Leopard Lizard  
Common Lesser Earless Lizard  
Texas Horned Lizard  
Hernandez’s Short-horned Lizard  
Round-tailed horned Lizard  
Common Sagebrush Lizard  
Desert Spiny Lizard  
Prairie Lizard  
Plateau Fence Lizard  
Ornate Tree Lizard  
Common Side-blotched Lizard  
Many-lined Skink  
Great Plains Skink  
Six-lined Racerunner  
Common Checkered Whiptail  
Colorado Checkered Whiptail  
Tiger Whiptail  
Plateau Striped Whiptail  
New Mexico Threadsnake  
Glossy Snake  
North American Racer  
Ring-necked Snake

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-10 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
11 
Great Plains Ratsnake  
Plains Hog-nosed Snake  
Eastern Hog-nosed Snake 
Chihuahuan Nightsnake  
Mesa Verde Nightsnake  
Speckled Kingsnake  
Western Milksnake  
Western Coachwhip  
Desert Striped Whipsnake  
Northern Watersnake  
Smooth Greensnake  
Gophersnake  
Long-nosed Snake  
Great Plains Groundsnake  
Plains Black-headed Snake  
Smith’s Black-headed Snake  
Arid Land Ribbonsnake  
Black-necked Gartersnake  
Terrestrial Gartersnake  
Plains Gartersnake  
Common Gartersnake  
Lined Snake  
Midget Faded (Western) Rattlesnake  
Massasauga 
4. 
Mollusks: 
Mossy Valvata 
Quilted Melania 
Prairie Fossaria 
Cockerell Lymnaea 
Carib Fossaria 
Wrinkled Marshsnail 
Marsh Pondsnail 
Rock Fossaria 
Golden Fossaria 
Pygmy Fossaria 
Swamp Lymnaea 
Lance Aplexa 
Pewter Physa 
Ashy Physa 
Glass Physa 
Utah Physa 
Tadpole Physa 
Protean Physa 
Mimic Lymnaea 
Disc Gyro

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-10 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
12 
Ash Gyro 
Mesa Rams-horn 
Marsh Rams-horn 
Two-ridge Rams-horn 
Sharp Sprite 
Umbilicate Sprite 
Rocky Mountain Capshell 
Fragile Ancylid 
Creeping Ancylid 
Cloche Ancylid 
Giant Floater 
Cylindrical Papershell 
Pondhorn 
Lake Fingernailclam 
Long Fingernailclam 
Striated Fingernailclam 
Ubiquitous Peaclam 
Ridgebeak Peaclam 
Quadrangular Pillclam 
Shiny Peaclam 
Triangular Peaclam 
Glossy Pillar 
Costate Vallonia 
Multirib Vallonia 
Lovely Vallonia 
Rocky Mountain Column 
Widespread Column 
White-lip Dagger 
Rocky Mountain Dagger 
Armed Snaggletooth 
Erie Snaggletooth 
Lambda Snaggletooth 
Slim Snaggletooth 
Comb Snaggletooth 
White Snaggletooth 
Variable Vertigo 
Cross Vertigo 
Ovate Vertigo 
Five-tooth Vertigo 
Toothless Column 
Suboval Ambersnail 
Niobrara Ambersnail 
Blunt Ambersnail 
(NCN) Ambersnail 
Forest Disc 
Compound Coil

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-10 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
13 
Smooth Coil 
Meadow Slug 
One-ridge Fieldslug 
Amber Glass 
Wild Hive 
Brown Hive 
Quick Gloss 
Spruce Snail 
Rocky Mountainsnail 
Lyrate Mountainsnail 
5. 
Birds: 
Red-throated Loon 
Pacific Loon 
Common Loon 
Yellow-billed Loon 
Pied-billed Grebe 
Horned Grebe 
Red-necked Grebe 
Eared Grebe 
Western Grebe 
Clark's Grebe 
American White Pelican 
Brown Pelican 
Double-crested Cormorant 
Neotropic Cormorant 
American Bittern 
Least Bittern 
White Ibis 
Glossy Ibis 
Great Blue Heron 
Great Egret 
Snowy Egret 
Little Blue Heron 
Tricolored Heron 
Cattle Egret 
Green Heron 
Black-crowned Night-Heron 
Yellow-crowned Night-Heron 
White-faced Ibis 
Tundra Swan 
Trumpeter Swan 
Turkey Vulture 
Osprey 
Mississippi Kite 
Bald Eagle

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-10 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
14 
Northern Harrier 
Sharp-shinned Hawk 
Cooper's Hawk 
Northern Goshawk 
Red-shouldered Hawk 
Broad-winged Hawk 
Swainson's Hawk 
Red-tailed Hawk 
Ferruginous Hawk 
Rough-legged Hawk 
Golden Eagle 
American Kestrel 
Merlin 
American Peregrine Falcon 
Gyrfalcon 
Prairie Falcon 
Arctic Peregrine Falcon 
Lesser Prairie-Chicken 
Plains Sharp-tailed Grouse 
Whooping Crane 
Black-bellied Plover 
American Golden-Plover 
Western Snowy Plover 
Semipalmated Plover 
Piping Plover 
Killdeer 
Mountain Plover 
Black-necked Stilt 
American Avocet 
Greater Yellowlegs 
Lesser Yellowlegs 
Solitary Sandpiper 
Willet 
Spotted Sandpiper 
Upland Sandpiper 
Whimbrel 
Long-billed Curlew 
Hudsonian Godwit 
Marbled Godwit 
Ruddy Turnstone 
Red Knot 
Sanderling 
Semipalmated Sandpiper 
Western Sandpiper 
Least Sandpiper 
White-rumped Sandpiper

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-10 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
15 
Baird's Sandpiper 
Pectoral Sandpiper 
Sharp-tailed Sandpiper 
Dunlin 
Stilt Sandpiper 
Buff-breasted Sandpiper 
Ruff 
Short-billed Dowitcher 
Long-billed Dowitcher 
Wilson's Phalarope 
Red-necked Phalarope 
Red Phalarope 
Pomarine Jaeger 
Parasitic Jaeger 
Long-tailed Jaeger 
Laughing Gull 
Franklin's Gull 
Little Gull 
Bonaparte's Gull 
Mew Gull 
Ring-billed Gull 
California Gull 
Herring Gull 
Thayer's Gull 
Lesser Black-backed Gull 
Glaucous-winged Gull 
Glaucous Gull 
Great Black-backed Gull 
Black-legged Kittiwake 
Sabine's Gull 
Caspian Tern 
Common Tern 
Arctic Tern 
Forster's Tern 
Least Tern 
Black Tern 
Marbled Murrelet 
Ancient Murrelet 
Black-billed Cuckoo 
Western Yellow-billed Cuckoo 
Greater Roadrunner 
Groove-billed Ani 
Barn Owl 
Flammulated Owl 
Eastern Screech-owl 
Western Screech-owl

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-10 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
16 
Great Horned Owl 
Snowy Owl 
Northern Pygmy-Owl 
Burrowing Owl 
Mexican Spotted Owl 
Long-eared Owl 
Short-eared Owl 
Boreal Owl 
Northern Saw-whet Owl 
Lesser Nighthawk 
Common Nighthawk 
Common Poorwill 
Whip-poor-will 
Black Swift 
Chimney Swift 
White-throated Swift 
Blue-throated Hummingbird 
Magnificent Hummingbird 
Black-chinned Hummingbird 
Anna's Hummingbird 
Calliope Hummingbird 
Broad-tailed Hummingbird 
Rufous Hummingbird 
Belted Kingfisher 
Lewis's Woodpecker 
Red-headed Woodpecker 
Red-bellied Woodpecker 
Red-naped Sapsucker 
Yellow-bellied Sapsucker 
Williamson's Sapsucker 
Ladder-backed Woodpecker 
Downy Woodpecker 
Hairy Woodpecker 
American Three-toed Woodpecker 
Northern Flicker 
Olive-sided Flycatcher 
Western Wood-Pewee 
Eastern Wood-Pewee 
Alder Flycatcher 
Willow Flycatcher 
Least Flycatcher 
Hammond's Flycatcher 
Dusky Flycatcher 
Gray Flycatcher 
Cordilleran Flycatcher 
Black Phoebe

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-10 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
17 
Eastern Phoebe 
Say's Phoebe 
Vermilion Flycatcher 
Ash-throated Flycatcher 
Great Crested Flycatcher 
Cassin's Kingbird 
Western Kingbird 
Eastern Kingbird 
Scissor-tailed Flycatcher 
Horned Lark 
Purple Martin 
Tree Swallow 
Violet-green Swallow 
Northern Rough-winged Swallow 
Bank Swallow 
Cliff Swallow 
Barn Swallow 
Gray Jay 
Steller's Jay 
Blue Jay 
Western Scrub-Jay 
Pinyon Jay 
Clark's Nutcracker 
Chihuahuan Raven 
Common Raven 
Black-capped Chickadee 
Mountain Chickadee 
Juniper Titmouse 
Bushtit 
Red-breasted Nuthatch 
White-breasted Nuthatch 
Pygmy Nuthatch 
Brown Creeper 
Rock Wren 
Canyon Wren 
Carolina Wren 
Bewick's Wren 
House Wren 
Winter Wren 
Sedge Wren 
Marsh Wren 
American Dipper 
Golden-crowned Kinglet 
Ruby-crowned Kinglet 
Blue-gray Gnatcatcher 
Eastern Bluebird

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-10 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
18 
Western Bluebird 
Mountain Bluebird 
Townsend's Solitaire 
Veery 
Gray-cheeked Thrush 
Swainson's Thrush 
Hermit Thrush 
Wood Thrush 
American Robin 
Varied Thrush 
Gray Catbird 
Northern Mockingbird Sage Thrasher 
Brown Thrasher 
Bendire's Thrasher 
Curve-billed Thrasher 
American Pipit 
Sprague's Pipit 
Bohemian Waxwing 
Cedar Waxwing 
Phainopepla 
Northern Shrike 
Loggerhead Shrike 
White-eyed Vireo 
Bell's Vireo 
Gray Vireo 
Plumbeous Vireo 
Yellow-throated Vireo 
Warbling Vireo 
Philadelphia Vireo 
Red-eyed Vireo 
Blue-winged Warbler 
Golden-winged Warbler 
Tennessee Warbler 
Orange-crowned Warbler 
Nashville Warbler 
Virginia's Warbler 
Lucy's Warbler 
Northern Parula 
Yellow Warbler 
Chestnut-sided Warbler 
Magnolia Warbler 
Cape May Warbler 
Black-throated Blue Warbler 
Yellow-rumped Warbler 
Black-throated Gray Warbler 
Townsend's Warbler

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-10 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
19 
Hermit Warbler 
Black-throated Green Warbler 
Blackburnian Warbler 
Yellow-throated Warbler 
Grace's Warbler 
Pine Warbler 
Prairie Warbler 
Palm Warbler 
Bay-breasted Warbler 
Blackpoll Warbler 
Black-and-white Warbler 
American Redstart 
Prothonotary Warbler 
Worm-eating Warbler 
Swainson's Warbler 
Ovenbird 
Northern Waterthrush 
Louisiana Waterthrush 
Kentucky Warbler 
Connecticut Warbler 
Mourning Warbler 
MacGillivray's Warbler 
Common Yellowthroat 
Hooded Warbler 
Wilson's Warbler 
Canada Warbler 
Painted Redstart 
Yellow-breasted Chat 
Hepatic Tanager 
Summer Tanager 
Scarlet Tanager 
Western Tanager 
Northern Cardinal 
Rose-breasted Grosbeak 
Black-headed Grosbeak 
Blue Grosbeak 
Lazuli Bunting 
Indigo Bunting 
Painted Bunting 
Dickcissel 
Green-tailed Towhee 
Eastern Towhee 
Spotted Towhee 
Canyon Towhee 
Cassin's Sparrow 
Rufous-crowned Sparrow

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-10 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
20 
American Tree Sparrow 
Chipping Sparrow 
Clay-colored Sparrow 
Brewer's Sparrow 
Field Sparrow 
Vesper Sparrow 
Lark Sparrow 
Black-throated Sparrow 
Sage Sparrow 
Lark Bunting 
Savannah Sparrow 
Baird's Sparrow 
Grasshopper Sparrow 
Henslow's Sparrow 
Le Conte's Sparrow 
Nelson’s Sharp-tailed Sparrow 
Fox Sparrow 
Song Sparrow 
Lincoln's Sparrow 
Swamp Sparrow 
White-throated Sparrow 
Golden-crowned Sparrow 
White-crowned Sparrow 
Harris's Sparrow 
Dark-eyed Junco 
McCown's Longspur 
Lapland Longspur 
Chestnut-collared Longspur 
Snow Bunting 
Bobolink 
Red-winged Blackbird 
Eastern Meadowlark 
Western Meadowlark 
Yellow-headed Blackbird 
Rusty Blackbird 
Brewer's Blackbird 
Great-tailed Grackle 
Common Grackle 
Brown-headed Cowbird 
Orchard Oriole 
Baltimore Oriole 
Bullock’s Oriole 
Scott's Oriole 
Gray-crowned Rosy-Finch 
Black Rosy-Finch 
Brown-capped Rosy-Finch

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-10 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
21 
Brambling 
Pine Grosbeak 
Purple Finch 
Cassin's Finch 
House Finch 
Red Crossbill 
White-winged Crossbill 
Common Redpoll 
Pine Siskin 
Lesser Goldfinch 
American Goldfinch 
Evening Grosbeak 
6. 
Mammals: 
Masked Shrew 
Montane Shrew 
Dwarf Shrew 
Water Shrew 
Merriam's Shrew 
Pygmy Shrew 
Elliot's Short-tailed Shrew 
Least Shrew 
Crawford’s Desert Shrew 
Eastern Mole 
California Myotis 
Western small-footed Myotis 
Long-eared Myotis 
Little Brown Myotis 
Fringed Myotis 
Long-legged Myotis 
Yuma Myotis 
Eastern Red Bat 
Hoary Bat 
Silver-haired Bat 
Western Pipistrelle 
Big Brown Bat 
Spotted Bat 
Townsend's Big-eared Bat 
Eastern Pipistrelle 
Pallid Bat 
Brazilian Free-tailed Bat 
Big Free-tailed Bat 
Nine-Banded Armadillo 
American Pika 
Least Chipmunk 
Cliff Chipmunk

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-10 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
22 
Colorado Chipmunk 
Uinta Chipmunk 
White-tailed Antelope Squirrel 
Spotted Ground Squirrel 
Golden-mantled Ground Squirrel 
Botta’s pocket gopher 
Northern pocket gopher 
Olive-backed Pocket Mouse 
Plains Pocket Mouse 
Silky Pocket Mouse 
Great Basin Pocket Mouse 
Hispid Pocket Mouse 
Ord's Kangaroo Rat 
Plains Harvest Mouse 
Western Harvest Mouse 
Deer Mouse 
White-footed Mouse 
Canyon Mouse 
Brush Mouse 
Pinyon Mouse 
Northern Rock Mouse 
Northern Grasshopper Mouse 
Hispid Cotton Rat 
Eastern Woodrat 
Southern Plains Woodrat 
Western White-throated Woodrat 
Eastern White-throated Woodrat 
Desert Woodrat 
Mexican Woodrat 
Bushy-tailed Woodrat 
Southern Red-backed Vole 
Western Heather Vole 
Meadow Vole 
Montane Vole 
Long-tailed Vole 
Mogollon Vole 
Prairie Vole 
Sagebrush Vole 
Preble’s Meadow Jumping Mouse 
Meadow Jumping Mouse 
Western Jumping Mouse 
North American Porcupine 
Gray Wolf 
Kit Fox 
Grizzly Bear 
Black-footed Ferret

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-10 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
23 
Wolverine 
Eastern Spotted Skunk 
Common Hog-nosed Skunk 
Northern River Otter 
Lynx

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-10 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
24 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Rules #1670, 1671 eff. 07/01/2007. 
Chapter 16 recodified as 2 CCR 406-16 on 04/01/2009. 
Chapter 10 recodified as 2 CCR 406-10 on 04/01/2009; for history and versions prior to 
04/01/2009, see 2 CCR 406-8. 
Entire rule eff. 05/01/2009. 
Rule #1000 A.1-1000 A.5, 1004 A.6 eff. 09/01/2009. 
Rule #1004 A.5 eff. 09/01/2012. 
Rule #1000 A.5 eff. 09/01/2015. 
Rule #1005 emer. rule eff. 01/12/2022. 
Rules #1000 A.10, 1001 eff. 03/02/2022. 
Rule #1005 emer. rule eff. 05/04/2022; expired 09/01/2022. 
Rules #1000 A.10.a.(iii), 1003 A.1, 1004 A.1 eff. 07/01/2022. 
Rules #1000 A.6, 1000 A.10-11, 1000 B-D.5, 1001, repealed 1002 B eff. 07/01/2023. 
Rule #1000 D.2 emer. rule eff. 06/12/2024. 
Rules #1000 D.3, 1001 C.3.a, 1000 C.3.d, 1001 F, 1001 G eff. 08/01/2024. 
Rule #1000 D.3 emer. rule eff. 08/22/2024. 
Rule #1000 D.2 eff. 09/01/2024. 
Rule #1000 D.3 eff. 12/01/2024. 
Rules #1000 A, #1004 A.3 eff. 06/02/2026.
