---
id: "2_CCR_406-3"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "300 - Definitions"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12523&fileName=2%20CCR%20406-3&type=pdf"
---

#### 2_CCR_406-3. 300 - Definitions

1 
Department of Natural Resources 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
CHAPTER W-3 - FURBEARERS AND SMALL GAME, EXCEPT MIGRATORY BIRDS 
2 CCR 406-3 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
ARTICLE I - General Provisions 
#300 - Definitions 
A. 
“Canada Lynx Recovery Area” means the area of the San Juan and Rio 
Grande National Forests and associated lands above 9,000 feet extending west 
from a north-south line passing through Del Norte and east from a north-south 
line passing through Dolores and from the New Mexico state line north to the 
Gunnison basin (including Taylor Park east to the Collegiate Range). The GMUs 
included in the area are: 55, 65, 66, 67, 68, 70, 71, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 
551, 681, 711 and 751. 
B. 
“Furbearers” means those species with fur having commercial value and which 
provide opportunities for sport harvest including mink, pine marten, badger, red 
fox, gray fox, swift fox, striped skunk, western spotted skunk, beaver, muskrat, 
long-tailed weasel, short-tailed weasel, coyote, bobcat, opossum, ring-tailed cat 
and raccoon. 
C. 
“Live Trap (Cage or Box)” means a mechanical device designed in such a 
manner that the animal enters the trap through an opening that prevents the 
animal from exiting. 
D. 
“Small game, except migratory birds,” means: 
1. 
Game birds, including dusky grouse, Greater Sage-grouse, Gunnison 
Sage-grouse, mountain sharp-tailed grouse, white-tailed ptarmigan, 
pheasant, northern bobwhite, scaled and Gambel's quail, chukar partridge, 
Greater prairie-chicken and wild turkey; and 
2. 
Game mammals, including cottontail rabbit, snowshoe hare, white-tailed 
and black-tailed jackrabbit, fox squirrel, pine squirrel, marmot, and Abert's 
squirrel; and 
3. 
Other small game, including black-tailed, white-tailed and Gunnison 
prairie dogs, Wyoming (Richardson's) ground squirrel, prairie rattlesnake, 
and common snapping turtles. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
2 
NOTE: “Migratory Birds” is defined in regulation #500(A). 
E. 
“Traps specifically designed not to kill” means padded, laminated, or off-set 
steel jawed foothold traps, enclosed foothold, box traps, and cage traps, as 
conditioned elsewhere in these regulations. 
 
 
 
#301 – License Fees 
A. 
Furbearer License Fee 
1. 
Furbearer License Fee Reduction: 
In accordance with the provisions of §33-4-102, C.R.S., the following 
furbearer license fees shall be reduced to the fee specified herein, from 
the level set forth in §33-4-102, C.R.S.: 
a. 
Nonresident Furbearer ……………………….$102.11 
B. 
Resident senior combination fishing and small game hunting license fee 
1. 
Resident senior combination fishing and small game hunting license 
fee reduction: 
In accordance with the provisions of §33-4-102, C.R.S., the following 
combination license shall be created with a reduced fee specified herein, 
from the level set forth in §33-4-102, C.R.S.: 
a. 
Resident senior combination fishing and small game hunting 
licenses   35.28 
b. 
Resident senior lifetime fishing upgrade to annual combination 
fishing and small game hunting license* …………….$25.07 
*Valid only for resident senior Lifetime Disability and Low Income Fishing 
license holders. 
#302 - Hours 
A. 
Hunting Hours: 
1. 
Small Game - from one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise to sunset.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
3 
2. 
Furbearers - from one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise to one-half (1/2) hour 
after sunset. Additionally; beaver, bobcat, coyote, gray fox, raccoon, red 
fox, striped skunk, and swift fox may be hunted at night in accordance with 
Regulation #'s 303(E)(7) and (E)(8). 
B. 
Trapping Hours: 
1. 
Small game, except game birds; game reptiles, and furbearers - day or 
night. 
2. 
All live traps (cage or box) must be visually checked on site at least once 
every day; except in the Canada lynx recovery area or on properties 
known to be occupied by Canada lynx, they must be checked every 24 
hours. 
a. 
Visual lures, fresh meat baits, fish oil, and anise oil lures meant to 
attract felids are not permitted in the Canada lynx recovery area or 
on properties known to be occupied by Canada lynx. 
 
#303 - Manner of Take: 
The following are legal methods of take for game species listed in this chapter. 
Any method of take not listed herein shall be prohibited, except as otherwise 
provided by Statute or Commission regulation or by 35-40-100.2-115, C.R.S. 
A. 
Special Conditions 
1. 
Contests involving black-tailed, white-tailed and Gunnison’s prairie dogs, 
Wyoming (Richardson's) ground squirrel, or Furbearers are prohibited. 
a. 
For the purpose of these regulations, a contest is any competitive 
event where money or other valuable prizes are awarded for the 
taking of such small game and furbearers. “Valuable prizes” shall 
not include certificates or other similar tokens of recognition not 
having any significant monetary value. 
b. 
Commercial and noncommercial wildlife parks and field trials 
licensed by the Division are exempt from these provisions. 
2. 
Live Capture 
a. 
Furbearers captured in live traps cannot be moved from the capture 
site and must be killed or released on site when the trap is 
checked.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
4 
3. 
Accidental Capture - Except for Canada lynx, which are subject to the 
provisions of Chapter 10, any person accidentally trapping any wildlife for 
which the trapping season is closed or for which trapping is not a legal 
manner of taking, shall, in the event of live capture of such wildlife, release 
such wildlife immediately. Nothing in this section permits the killing of such 
accidentally captured wildlife, unless the wildlife cannot be released 
without human endangerment. In the event of mortality resulting from such 
accidental capture, the carcass of such wildlife shall be delivered to a 
Division wildlife officer or office within five (5) days. Failure to deliver the 
carcass shall be prima facie evidence of unlawful possession of such 
wildlife. Provided further that any trapper who complies with this provision 
shall not be charged with illegal possession of such accidentally captured 
wildlife. 
4. 
Non-toxic shot requirements 
a. 
Arapaho National Wildlife Refuge (Jackson County). 
No person shall use or possess shot (either in shot-shells or as 
loose shot for muzzle-loading) other than non-toxic shot while 
taking or attempting to take any resident small game species with a 
shotgun. “Non-toxic shot” - means any shot type approved for use 
to take migratory game birds by the US Fish and Wildlife Service as 
set forth in #500 of these regulations. 
5. 
Labeling of traps - All live traps (limited to cage or box traps) placed on 
public lands must be labeled permanently and legibly with the trapper’s 
Customer Identification Number (CID) in a location that is visible without 
having to manipulate the live trap in any way. If the trapper does not have 
a CID, all live traps placed on public lands must be labeled with the 
trapper’s name. Live traps not properly labeled may be confiscated by any 
Wildlife Officer. 
 
B. 
Game Mammals 
1. 
Any rifle or handgun. 
2. 
Any shotgun not larger than 10 gauge, incapable of holding more than 
three (3) shells in magazine and chamber combined. 
3. 
Handheld bows and crossbows. 
4. 
Air guns and slingshots. 
5. 
Hawking

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
5 
C. 
Game Birds, except Migratory Birds 
1. 
Any rifle or handgun for dusky (blue) grouse, ptarmigan or turkey during 
the fall and late seasons. Rifles and handguns used for the taking of 
turkeys shall use bullets of at least seventeen (17) grains in weight, with a 
manufacturer's energy rating of at least one-hundred ten (110) foot 
pounds at one-hundred (100) yards from the muzzle. 
2. 
Shotguns not larger than 10 gauge not firing a single slug, and incapable 
of holding more than three (3) shells in the magazine and chamber 
combined. No shot (lead or steel) larger than size #2 shall be used to hunt 
turkey. 
3. 
Handheld bows and crossbows. 
4. 
Air guns and slingshots for dusky (blue) grouse and ptarmigan. Pre-
charged pneumatic air guns .25 caliber or larger during the fall or late 
seasons for turkey. 
5. 
Hawking. 
6. 
Artificial decoys and calls, except recorded or electrically amplified calls or 
sounds; for turkey. 
D. 
Species listed in #300(D)(3). 
1. 
Any method not otherwise prohibited. 
E. 
Furbearers 
1. 
Any rifle or handgun. 
2. 
Any shotgun. 
3. 
Handheld bows and crossbows. 
4. 
Any air gun, except that for coyote or bobcat the air gun must be a pre-
charged pneumatic air gun .25 caliber or larger. 
5. 
Live traps, limited to cage or box traps. All live-trapped wildlife shall be 
released immediately or dispatched by any legal method of take for that 
species in regulations #303.E.1-4. If local ordinances or public safety 
prohibit all legal methods of take from being used, American Veterinary 
Medical Association Guidelines for Euthanasia of Free-Ranging Wildlife, 
as provided in S7.6 of the 2013 edition of the AVMA Guidelines for 
Euthanasia of Animals, may alternatively be used to the extent allowable 
by law.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
6 
6. 
Electronic call devices. 
7. 
Artificial light (private land) may be used at night to take beaver, bobcat, 
coyote, gray fox, raccoon, red fox, striped skunk and swift fox on private 
land with written permission of the landowner, designated agent, lessee, 
or authorized employee. 
8. 
Artificial light (public land) may be used at night to take beaver, bobcat, 
coyote, gray fox, raccoon, red fox, striped skunk and swift fox on public 
lands by permit only, as follows: 
a. 
Each permit shall be valid only for the time, species, and location 
specified on the permit. No permit will be valid during any deer, elk 
or pronghorn rifle season or during the 24 hour period prior to the 
opening weekend; nor during the opening weekend of any grouse, 
pheasant, quail, turkey or waterfowl season in those areas where 
such seasons are in progress. 
b. 
An artificial light which is permanently attached to, or projected from 
within a vehicle is prohibited. 
c. 
Taking shall not be permitted within 500 yards of a dwelling, 
building, or other structure, or in any area of public concentration 
where human safety would be jeopardized. 
d. 
Such permit shall be carried while hunting and available for 
inspection upon demand. 
e. 
Area wildlife managers and district wildlife managers may deny a 
permit where there is a potential that night hunting activities may 
result in significant adverse impact on wildlife resources by causing 
movement of large numbers of big game or otherwise. 
Provided further that night hunting permits for bobcat will not be 
issued on public lands in the Canada lynx recovery area where 
Canada lynx are known to be present. When one Canada lynx has 
been taken by a bobcat hunter during the current year's hunting 
season no night hunting permits for bobcat will be issued for the 
remainder of the calendar year in the Canada lynx recovery area or 
in the area outside the Canada lynx recovery area where the 
Canada lynx was taken. In such instance, any night hunting permits 
for bobcat already issued under this provision shall be terminated. 
f. 
A permit shall not be required of any person, member of the 
person's family, lessee, designated agent, authorized employee, or 
identified designee with written authorization when necessary to 
protect such person's property. Refer to Chapter W-17, Damage 
Caused by Wildlife for applicable regulations.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
7 
9. 
Baits 
a. 
Furbearers may be taken with the aid of baiting. Where permitted, 
baits shall consist solely of material of animal or plant origin and 
shall not contain any materials of metal, glass, porcelain, plastic, 
cardboard or paper. Wildlife used as bait shall be the carcass, or 
parts thereof, of legally taken furbearers, carp, shad, white and 
longnose suckers, and nonedible portions of legally obtained game 
mammals, birds and game fish. 
 
#304 - License Requirements 
Except as provided in 33-6-107(9) C.R.S., the following license requirements shall 
apply: 
A. 
A small game license authorizes the take of coyotes and those species defined in 
#300(D) as small game, except wild turkey. A turkey license is required to take 
wild turkey. 
B. 
A small game license combined with the purchase of a furbearer harvest permit 
authorizes the take of those species defined in #300(D) as small game, except 
wild turkey, and authorizes the take of all species defined in #300(B) as 
furbearers. An annual furbearer harvest permit can be purchased for $10.00. 
C. 
Any small game and fishing combination license combined with the purchase of a 
furbearer harvest permit authorizes the take of those species defined in #300(D) 
as small game, except wild turkey, and authorizes the take of all species defined 
in #300(B) as furbearers. 
D. 
A furbearer license authorizes the take of all species defined in #300(B) as 
furbearers. 
E. 
A youth small game license authorizes the take of all species defined in #300(D) 
as small game and all species identified in #300(B) as furbearers. 
F. 
Common snapping turtles may be taken with either a small game license or a 
fishing license. 
G. 
Each hunter must register their intent to hunt migratory birds, small game or 
coyotes by completing a Harvest Information Program (HIP) survey online 
(www.cpwshop.com) or by calling (1-855-521-3050) prior to their first hunting trip 
of the season. For the purposes of this regulation, “season” means the period 
March 1 through March 31 of the following year. 
H. 
Beginning with the 2025 greater sage-grouse, mountain sharp-tailed grouse and 
ptarmigan hunting seasons, no hunter shall take any greater sage-grouse,

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
8 
mountain sharp-tailed grouse, or white-tailed ptarmigan unless at the time of 
such taking they have purchased one (1) greater sage-grouse, mountain sharp-
tailed grouse, and white-tailed ptarmigan permit in addition to a small game 
license. An annual greater sage-grouse, mountain sharp-tailed grouse and white-
tailed ptarmigan permit can be purchased for $5.00. 
#305 - Evidence of Sex/Species 
Refer to General Provisions #003. 
ARTICLE II - Small Game Season Dates, Units (as Described in Chapter 0 of These 
Regulations), Bag and Possession Limits, Limited Licenses and Permits 
#306 - Cottontail Rabbit, Snowshoe Hare, White-tailed & Black-tailed jackrabbit 
A. 
Season Dates and Units 
1. 
Statewide: October 1 - end of February annually. 
2. 
Extended Falconry and Dog Pursuit Season - Statewide: September 1 - 
March 31 annually. 
B. 
Daily Bag and Possession Limits 
1. 
Daily Bag Limit - Ten (10) cottontail rabbits, ten (10) snowshoe hares, ten 
(10) jackrabbits. 
2. 
Possession Limit: Twenty (20) cottontail rabbits, twenty (20) snowshoe 
hares, and twenty (20) jackrabbits. 
#307 - Abert's Squirrels 
A. 
Season Dates and Units 
1. 
Statewide: November 15 - January 15 annually. 
B. 
Daily Bag and Possession Limits 
1. 
Daily Bag Limit - Two (2) squirrels. 
2. 
Possession Limit - Four (4) squirrels. 
#308 - Fox Squirrel and Pine Squirrels 
A. 
Season Dates and Units 
1. 
Statewide: October 1 - end of February annually. 
2. 
Extended Falconry Season - Statewide: September 1 - March 31 annually.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
9 
B. 
Daily Bag and Possession Limits 
1. 
Daily Bag Limit - Five (5) fox squirrels and five (5) pine squirrels. 
2. 
Possession Limit - Ten (10) fox squirrels and ten (10) pine squirrels. 
#309 - Wyoming (Richardson's) ground squirrel, and black-tailed, white-tailed, 
and Gunnison prairie dogs 
A. 
Season Dates and Units 
1. 
Wyoming ground squirrel: 
a. 
Statewide: January 1 - December 31 annually. 
2. 
Black-tailed, white-tailed and Gunnison prairie dogs: 
a. 
Public Land: June 15 - end of February annually. 
b. 
Private Land: January 1 - December 31 annually. 
B. 
Daily Bag and Possession Limits 
1. 
There shall be no bag or possession limit. 
#310 - Common Snapping Turtle 
A. 
Season Dates and Units 
1. 
Statewide: April 1 - October 31 annually. 
B. 
Daily Bag and Possession Limits 
1. 
Daily Bag Limit - Three (3) turtles.  
2. 
Possession Limit - Six (6) turtles. 
#311 - Marmot 
A. 
Season Dates and Units 
1. 
Statewide: August 10 - October 15 annually. 
B. 
Daily Bag and Possession limits 
1. 
Daily Bag Limit - Two (2) marmots. 
2. 
Possession Limit - Four (4) marmots.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
10 
#312 - Prairie Rattlesnake 
A. 
Season Dates and Units 
1. 
Statewide: June 15 - August 15 annually. 
B. 
Daily Bag and Possession Limits 
1. 
Daily Bag Limit - Three (3) snakes. 
2. 
Possession Limit - Six (6) snakes. 
C. 
Nothing in this section is intended to interfere with or prohibit the lawful protection 
of life or property as provided for in Section 33-6-107(9), C.R.S. 
#313 - Dusky (Blue) Grouse 
A. 
Season Dates and Units 
1. 
West of U.S. Interstate 25. 
a. 
September 1 - November 23, 2025. 
b. 
Extended Falconry Season: September 1 - March 31 annually. 
B. 
Daily Bag and Possession Limits 
1. 
Daily Bag Limit - Three (3) birds. 
2. 
Possession Limit - Nine (9) birds. 
#314 - White-tailed Ptarmigan 
A. 
Season Dates and Units 
1. 
Statewide except units 44, 45, 53, 54, 66, 67, 68, 70, 71, 74, 75, 76, 77, 
78, 79, 80, 81, 444 and 751. 
a. 
September 13 - October 5, 2025. 
b. 
Extended Falconry Season: September 1 - March 31 annually. 
2. 
Units 44, 45, 53, 54, 66, 67, 68, 70, 71, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 444 
and 751. 
a. 
September 13 - November 23, 2025. 
b. 
Extended Falconry Season: September 1 - March 31 annually.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
11 
B. 
Daily Bag and Possession Limits 
1. 
Daily Bag Limit - Three (3) birds. 
2. 
Possession Limit - Six (6) birds. 
#315 - Greater Sage-grouse 
A. 
Season Dates, Units and Limits, Except North Park 
1. 
Units 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 11, 13, 18 except that portion of unit 18 east of Colo 
125 in Grand County, 27, 28 except that portion of GMU 28 north and east 
of Grand Co Rd 50 (Church Park Rd) and US 40, 37, 181, 201, 211, 301 
and 441. 
a. 
September 13 - September 19, 2025. 
b. 
Extended Falconry Season: September 1 - January 31 annually. 
2. 
Daily Bag and Possession Limits 
a. 
Daily Bag Limit - Two (2) birds. 
b. 
Possession Limit - Four (4) birds. 
B. 
Season Dates, Units and Limits, North Park 
1. 
Units 6, 16, 17, 161, and 171. 
a. 
September 13 - September 14, 2025. 
b. 
Extended Falconry Season: September 1 - January 31 annually. 
2. 
Daily Bag and Possession Limits 
a. 
Daily Bag Limit - Two (2) birds. 
b. 
Possession Limit - Two (2) birds. 
#316 - Gunnison Sage-grouse 
A. 
Season Dates and Units 
1. 
None. 
B. 
Daily Bag and Possession Limits 
1. 
Daily Bag Limit - None.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
12 
2. 
Possession Limit - None. 
#317 - Mountain Sharp-tailed Grouse 
A. 
Season Dates and Units. 
1. 
Closed statewide except: Units 4, 5, 12, 13, 14, 23, 131, 211, 214, and 
441. 
a. 
September 1 - September 21, 2025. 
b. 
Extended Falconry Season: September 1 - January 31 annually. 
B. 
Daily Bag and Possession Limits 
1. 
Daily Bag Limit - Two (2) birds. 
2. 
Possession Limit - Four (4) birds. 
#318 - Chukar Partridge 
A. 
Season Dates and Units 
1. 
Statewide: September 1 - November 30 annually. 
2. 
Extended Falconry Season - Statewide: - September 1 - March 31 
annually. 
B. 
Daily Bag and Possession Limits 
1. 
Daily Bag Limit - Four (4) birds. 
2. 
Possession Limit - Twelve (12) birds. 
#319 - Pheasant 
A. 
Season Dates and Units 
1. 
East of I 25: November 8, 2025 - January 31, 2026. 
2. 
West of I-25: November 8, 2025 - January 4, 2026. 
3. 
Extended Falconry Season - Statewide: September 1 - March 31 annually. 
B. 
Daily Bag and Possession Limits 
1. 
Daily Bag Limit - Three (3) cocks. 
2. 
Possession Limit - Nine (9) cocks.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
13 
C. 
Extended Falconry Season Daily Bag and Possession Limits 
1. 
Daily Bag Limit - Three (3) birds. 
2. 
Possession Limit - Nine (9) birds. 
#320 - Quail (Northern Bobwhite, Scaled, Gambel's) 
A. 
Season Dates and Units 
1. 
East of U.S. Interstate 25 and south of Interstate 70 from I-25 to Byers and 
U.S. Highway 36 from Byers to the Kansas line, and those portions of 
Pueblo, Fremont, Huerfano, El Paso and Las Animas counties lying west 
of I-25: 
November 8, 2025 - January 31, 2026. 
2. 
East of U.S. Interstate 25 and north of Interstate 70 from I-25 east to 
Byers and U.S. Highway 36 from Byers to the Kansas line: 
November 8, 2025 - January 4, 2026. 
3. 
West of U.S. Interstate I-25, except Pueblo, Fremont, Huerfano, El Paso 
and Las Animas counties: 
November 8, 2025 - January 4, 2026. 
4. 
Extended Falconry Season - Statewide: September 1 through March 31 
annually. 
B. 
Daily Bag and Possession Limits 
1. 
Daily Bag Limit - Eight (8) quail of each species. 
2. 
Possession Limit - Twenty-four (24) quail of each species. 
#321 - Greater Prairie-Chicken 
A. 
Season Dates and Units. 
1. 
Closed statewide except: Units 93, 97, 98, 100, 101, 102, 103, 109, all of 
Morgan County, and those portions east of Colorado State Highway 71 
and south of Colorado State Highway 14 and U.S. Highway 138. 
a. 
October 1 - January 31 annually. 
B. 
Daily Bag and Possession Limits 
1. 
Daily Bag Limit - Two (2) birds.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
14 
2. 
Possession Limit - Six (6) birds. 
#322 - Wild Turkey 
A. 
Season Bag and Possession Limits 
1. 
The bag and possession limit for each season annually shall be as 
provided below. 
a. 
Spring Season - The limit shall be two bearded turkeys in the spring 
for those persons who possess a limited spring license. One turkey 
must be harvested on the limited license and in the limited area. 
The additional bearded turkey must be harvested with an over-the-
counter license. 
b. 
Fall Season - The limit shall be one turkey of either sex. 
c. 
Late Season - The limit shall be two beardless turkeys. 
2. 
In addition to the above bag and possession limits, a hunter may obtain 
any number of nuisance turkey licenses as provided in #322(F). 
3. 
In addition to the above bag and possession limits, a hunter may take one 
additional turkey with a Turn In Poachers (TIPS) license as provided in 
#002(H)(11)(b). 
B. 
Applications for Limited Licenses 
1. 
Application requirements 
a. 
No person shall submit more than one (1) application per season. 
b. 
Incomplete applications will not be accepted. 
c. 
Applications not submitted by the deadline date and time are void. 
2. 
Drawing applications submittal 
a. 
Applications will be accepted by phone or internet only through the 
Division’s electronic licensing system. 
b. 
Each drawing application shall include payment of a non-refundable 
application fee for residents or a non-refundable application fee for 
nonresidents, found in Chapter W-0 Appendix F. Individuals 
successful in the draw will be charged for the limited license as well 
as applicable surcharges found in Chapter W-0 Appendix F. 
c. 
Spring season

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
15 
1. 
Applications for limited licenses must be received by phone 
or online no later than 8:00 PM Mountain Time, on the first 
Tuesday in February annually. 
d. 
Fall season 
1. 
Applications for limited licenses must be received by phone 
or online no later than 8:00 PM Mountain Time, on the last 
business day in May annually. 
e. 
Beginning January 1, 2028, unless there is an insufficient number 
of resident applications, nonresident hunters shall receive no more 
than 25% of available turkey licenses per hunt code in the spring 
and fall drawings during the first and second choices of both the 
draws. 
3. 
Preference systems 
a. 
Preference Points: Preference will be given for correct applications 
for first choice hunt codes only and shall be subject to the following 
provisions: 
1. 
Until January 1, 2028, one preference point will be awarded 
to each person who qualifies for and fails to draw a limited 
license as a first choice in the drawing or who applies using 
a first choice hunt code established for the purpose of 
accumulating a preference point only. However, no applicant 
may accumulate more than two turkey preference points per 
calendar year. 
Beginning January 1, 2028, one preference point will be 
awarded to each person who qualifies for and fails to draw a 
limited license as a first choice in the drawing or who applies 
for a preference point only (no hunt codes). However, no 
applicant may accumulate more than two turkey preference 
points per calendar year. Residents unsuccessful in drawing 
a first choice license or those applying for a preference point 
only (no hunt codes) will be assessed a $X preference point 
fee to receive a preference point. Nonresidents unsuccessful 
in drawing a first choice license or those applying for a 
preference point only (no hunt codes) will be assessed a $Y 
preference point fee to receive a preference point. If the 
applicant chooses not to pay the preference point fee, the 
applicant will not receive a preference point for that 
application. If an applicant accepts a first choice license that 
has been returned and reissued all accumulated preference 
points for that species become void. No preference points

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
16 
are required for purchasing a returned license placed on the 
leftover list. 
Youth as defined by 33-4-117 C.R.S., lifetime license 
holders, and Colorado resident military personnel on active 
duty outside Colorado are exempt from these preference 
point fees. 
2. 
Preference points will be used in future drawings for the 
same species and will continue to accumulate until the 
applicant draws a license as a first choice. If an applicant 
both fails to apply for a turkey license and has not purchased 
a turkey license during any given 10-year period, all 
accumulated preference points for turkey become void. 
3. 
Until January 1, 2028, applications with higher preference 
points will be given priority over all applications with fewer 
points. 
Beginning January 1, 2028, a split draw will be used for both 
the spring and fall season draws where the quota for each 
hunt code will be divided, with half of the quota going to a 
preference point draw, and half going to a bonus draw. If the 
quota can’t be evenly split, the extra license will go to the 
preference point draw. If there is only a single license 
available, it will be issued through the preference point draw. 
In the preference point split half of the draw applications with 
higher preference points will be given priority over all 
applications with fewer points. In the bonus draw, for every 
species preference point an applicant holds, the applicant 
will have one application entered into the bonus drawing, 
plus one. Each drawing shall be run processing all first 
choice applications for the preference point draw first, 
followed by all first choice applications for the bonus draw 
before moving to second choice applications. The drawing 
will continue in that order, until all choices are processed. 
4. 
Until January 1, 2028, group applications will receive 
preference at the level of the group member with the fewest 
accumulated points. 
Beginning January 1, 2028, in the preference point half of 
the draw, group applications will receive preference at the 
level of the group member with the fewest accumulated 
preference points, and, where applicable, the fewest 
accumulated chances, except that group applications will not 
be successful, regardless of preference point level or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
17 
number of chances, when there are fewer licenses 
remaining in the hunt code quota than the number of 
applicants in the group. 
5. 
Unsuccessful and successful applicants in the drawing can 
check their current accumulated preference point totals 
online. 
b. 
Hunting Licenses for Hunters with Mobility Impairments - The 
Director may make licenses valid in certain GMU's available to 
qualified hunters with mobility impairments. 
1. 
Applicants for hunting licenses for hunters with mobility 
impairments must have a mobility impairment resulting from 
permanent medical conditions, which makes it physically 
impossible for them to hunt without the assistance of an 
attendant. Evidence of an impossibility to participate in the 
hunt without the assistance of an attendant may include, but 
is not limited to, prescribed use of a wheel chair; shoulder or 
arm crutches; walker; two canes; or other prescribed medical 
devices or equipment. 
2. 
Applications for hunting licenses for hunters with mobility 
impairments shall be made on the form, available from and 
submitted with the applicable license fee to, Colorado Parks 
and Wildlife, Limited License Office, 6060 Broadway, 
Denver, Colorado 80216. Hunters may apply from the 
Monday after the November Commission meeting through 
the last day of the spring season. 
3. 
Applications for hunting licenses for hunters with mobility 
impairments shall contain a statement from a licensed 
medical doctor or a certified physical, occupational, or 
recreational therapist describing the applicant’s mobility 
impairment and the permanent medical condition which 
makes it impossible for the applicant to hunt without the 
assistance of an attendant. Additional documentation may 
be required, if necessary to establish the applicant’s 
eligibility for a hunting license for hunters with mobility 
impairments. Once certified by the Division as mobility-
impaired according to these regulations, applicants will not 
be required to submit the medical statement. 
4. 
Ten (10) hunting licenses for hunters with mobility 
impairments will be available for the spring season, valid 
only on private lands in units 91, 92, and 96. The licenses 
will be valid for the season dates established for the

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
18 
authorized hunt code. Licenses for hunters with mobility 
impairments may not be issued for Ranching for Wildlife 
properties unless otherwise provided in the ranch contract. 
c. 
Youth Outreach Hunting Licenses – The Director may make 
additional youth outreach program turkey licenses available to 
qualified organizations sponsoring youth hunting activities. 
1. 
There will be no more than 200 licenses issued annually 
under this subsection. 
2. 
Licenses will be approved by the applicable Regional 
Manager on a case-by-case basis. 
3. 
Licenses are issued on a first come, first served basis to 
qualified organizations. 
 
4. 
Organizations who wish to request a Youth Outreach license 
must submit the request in writing to Colorado Parks and 
Wildlife, State Hunter Outreach Coordinator, 6060 
Broadway, Denver, Colorado 80216 no later than 60 days 
prior to the planned hunting event. 
5. 
Licenses are limited to youth hunters under 18 years of age. 
d. 
Novice Outreach Hunting Licenses – The Director may make 
additional outreach program turkey licenses available to qualified 
organizations sponsoring novice adult hunting activities. 
1. 
There will be no more than 200 licenses issued annually 
under this subsection. 
2. 
Licenses will be approved by the applicable Regional 
Manager on a case-by-case basis. 
3. 
Licenses are issued on a first-come, first-served basis to 
qualified organizations. 
4. 
Organizations who wish to request an Outreach License 
must submit the request in writing to Colorado Parks and 
Wildlife, State Hunter Outreach Coordinator, 6060 
Broadway, Denver, Colorado 80216 no later than 60 days 
prior to the planned hunting event. 
5. 
Licenses are limited to novice hunters. For the purpose of 
these regulations a novice adult hunter is defined as a

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
19 
Colorado resident 18 years of age or older, who has either: 
no turkey license purchase history, only held a turkey 
license(s) in the current or previous year, or has no turkey 
license purchase history in the previous five years. 
C. 
Special Restrictions 
1. 
Tagging Requirements 
a. 
When any person kills a turkey, that person must immediately 
detach, sign, and date the carcass tag. Such tags must be attached 
to the carcass of the bird while it is transported in any vehicle, while 
in camp, at a residence, or other place of storage. 
b. 
Such tags, when dated, signed and attached to the turkey lawfully 
taken or killed and lawfully in possession, authorizes the 
possession, use, storage, and transportation of the carcass, or any 
part thereof, within the state. 
c. 
If the carcass tag is inadvertently or accidentally detached from the 
license or is lost or destroyed, the licensee must obtain a duplicate 
carcass tag before he can lawfully hunt with such license. The 
duplicate carcass tag may be obtained upon furnishing satisfactory 
proof as to the inadvertent or accidental nature of the detachment, 
loss, or destruction to Colorado Parks and Wildlife. 
2. 
Spanish Peaks SWA 
a. 
Hunting during the spring turkey season shall be permitted only on 
Saturdays, Sundays, Mondays and Tuesdays on the Spanish 
Peaks State Wildlife Area, except as provided in subparagraph b of 
this subsection. 
b. 
For hunters with mobility impairments, hunting during the spring 
turkey season shall be permitted after the second weekend of the 
season on Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays, by special access 
permit only. For the purposes of this subparagraph, the following 
restrictions shall apply: 
1. 
Applicants for access permits for hunters with mobility 
impairments must have a mobility impairment resulting from 
permanent medical conditions, which makes it physically 
impossible for them to hunt without the assistance of an 
attendant. Evidence of an impossibility to participate in the 
hunt without the assistance of an attendant may include, but 
is not limited to, prescribed use of a wheelchair; shoulder or 
arm crutches; walker; two canes; or other prescribed medical 
devices or equipment. Applications will be accepted until the

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
20 
last day of the spring turkey season. Permits will be issued 
on a first-come, first-served basis, and will be limited to two 
(2) individuals during each Wednesday through Friday time 
period during the spring season. 
2. 
Applications for access permits for hunters with mobility 
impairments shall be made on the form available from, and 
submitted to, Colorado Parks and Wildlife, Limited License 
Office, 6060 Broadway, Denver, Colorado 80216. 
3. 
Applications for access permits for mobility-impaired hunters 
shall contain a statement from a licensed medical doctor or a 
certified physical, occupational, or recreational therapist 
describing the applicant’s mobility impairment and the 
permanent medical condition which makes it impossible for 
the applicant to hunt without the assistance of an attendant. 
Additional documentation may be required if necessary to 
establish the applicant’s eligibility for an access permit for 
hunters with mobility impairments. Once certified by the 
Division as mobility-impaired according to these regulations, 
applicants will not be required to submit the medical 
statement. 
3. 
Higel and Rio Grande SWAs 
a. 
Turkey hunting access during the spring turkey season requires an 
access permit. Access permits will be issued for each property, 
from the Division Office in Monte Vista through a hand drawing. 
Permit applications may be obtained from CPW, 0722 S. Road 1E, 
Monte Vista, CO 81144. Group applications will be accepted. No 
more than two (2) applicants per group. Application deadline is 
March 31 of each year. Successful applicants will be notified by 
email. The date, time and location of the drawing will be included 
on the application. 
4. 
Horsethief Canyon State Wildlife Area 
a. 
Turkey hunting access is limited to the spring turkey season and is 
restricted to youth mentor turkey hunting only, by access permit 
only. Mentors are not allowed to hunt. Permit applications are 
available from Colorado Parks and Wildlife Northwest Region 
Service Center at 711 Independent Ave., Grand Junction, CO 
81505, 970-255-6100. The application deadline is March 31. 
Successful applicants will be notified by mail.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
21 
5. 
Youth Turkey Extended Season 
Youths under 18 years of age may hunt turkey from the Saturday before 
Thanksgiving through the Sunday after Thanksgiving, provided they 
possess an unfilled youth fall turkey license (including, but not limited to, 
hunt code TE000U3R). Youths may only hunt in the GMU their original 
unfilled license was valid in; youths with unfilled OTC licenses may hunt in 
any OTC GMU but may not hunt in a limited unit that the original OTC 
license was not valid in. All hunters must comply with applicable 
regulations for the hunt in which they participate, and are accompanied by 
a mentor. A mentor must be at least 18 years of age and comply with 
hunter education requirements. The mentor may not hunt. 
D. 
Season Dates and Units - Unlimited Licenses. 
1. 
Spring Seasons 
Units 
Hunt 
Code 
Date 
Open 
Date 
Closed 
License
s 
001, 003, 004, 005, 006, 007, 008, 009, 
010, 011, 012, 013, 014, 016, 017, 018, 
019, 020, 022, 024, 028, 029, 030, 031, 
032, 033, 038, 039, 040, 041, 042, 046, 
048, 049, 050, 051, 052, 053, 054, 055, 
056, 057, 058, 059 except on the 
Beaver Creek SWA and the Table 
Mountain State Trust Land Lease, 060, 
061, 062, 063, 064, 065, 066, 067, 068, 
069, 070, 071, 072, 073, 074, 075, 076, 
077, 078, 079, 082, 083, 084, 085, 086, 
087, 088, 089, 090, 093, 094, 095, 097, 
098, 099, 100, 104, 105, 106, 110, 111, 
112, 113, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118, 119, 
120, 121, 122, 123, 126, 128, 130, 131, 
133, 134, 135, 136, 137, 138, 140 
except on James M. John and Lake 
Dorothey State Wildlife Areas, 141, 
142, 143, 144, 145, 146, 147, 161, 171, 
181, 191, 211, 214, 231, 301, 391, 411, 
421, 441, 461, 481, 500, 501, 511, 512, 
521, 551, 561, 581, 591, 681, 682, 691, 
711, 741, 751, 771, 791, 851 except 
the Bosque del Oso SWA, 861, 951, 
and private land portions of 91, 92, 
101, 102, 103, 107, 109, 124, 125, 127, 
129, 132, 139. 
TM000U
1R 
04/11/20
26 
05/31/20
26 
Unlimite
d

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
22 
2. 
Fall Seasons 
Unit 
Hunt 
Code 
Open 
Date 
Close 
Date 
License
s 
001, 003, 004, 005, 006, 007, 008, 009, 
010, 011, 012, 013, 014, 016, 017, 018, 
019, 020, 022, 023, 024, 028, 029, 031, 
032, 033, 038, 039, 040, 041, 042, 043, 
046, 048, 049, 050, 051, 052, 053, 054, 
055, 056, 057, 058, 059 except on the 
Beaver Creek SWA and the Table 
Mountain State Trust Land Lease, 060, 
061, 062, 063, 064, 065, 066, 067, 068, 
069, 070, 071, 072, 073, 074, 075, 076, 
077, 078, 079, 082, 083, 084, 085 
except on the Spanish Peaks State 
Wildlife Area, 086, 087, 088, 094, 104, 
105, 110, 112, 113, 114, 116, 117, 118, 
119, 121, 122, 123, 128, 130, 131, 133, 
134, 135, 136, 137, 138, 140 except on 
the James M. John and Lake Dorothey 
State Wildlife Areas, 141, 142, 143, 
144, 145, 147, 161, 171, 181, 191, 211, 
214, 231, 301, 391, 411, 421, 431, 441, 
461, 481, 500, 501, 511, 512, 521, 551, 
561, 581, 591, 681, 682, 691, 711, 741, 
751, 771, 791, 851 except on the 
Bosque del Oso SWA, 861, 951, and 
private land portions of 101, 102,. 
TE000U2
R 
09/01/20
26 
10/04/20
26 AND 
10/23/20
26 
Unlimite
d 
West of 
I-25 and 
GMU 
140 
and 
East of 
I-25 
(excludi
ng GMU 
140) 
3. 
Private Land Only Late Seasons 
a. 
Private land only licenses are valid on all private land within the 
game management unit upon which the license holder has 
permission to hunt. 
 
Unit 
Hunt 
Code 
Open 
Date 
Close 
Date 
License
s 
112, 113 
TF000U2
R 
12/15/20
26 
01/15/20
27 
Unlimite
d 
E. 
Season Dates and Units - Limited Licenses and Limited License Areas. Limited 
licenses shall be valid only for the time period and game management unit(s) or 
area(s) indicated on the license. 
 
1. 
Spring Season. 
Unit 
Hunt 
Date 
Date 
Licenses

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
23 
Code 
Opened 
Closed 
Bearded 
Turkey Only 
2  
TM002O1
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
10 
15, 27,37 and 361 
TM015O1
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
15 
21 
TM021O1
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
25 
23 
TM023O1
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
25 
23 – private land only 
TM023P1
R 
04/13/202
6 
05/30/202
6 
35 
25 
TM025O1
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
40 
34 
TM034O1
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
40 
35, 36 
TM035O1
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
30 
43, 431 
TM043O1
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
60 
44 
TM044O1
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
80 
47 
TM047O1
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
15 
59 - Beaver Creek State 
Wildlife Area and Table 
Mountain State Trust Land 
Lease only 
TM059O1
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/01/202
6 
5 
59 - Beaver Creek State 
Wildlife Area and Table 
Mountain State Trust Land 
Lease only 
TM059O2
R 
05/02/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
10 
59 - Beaver Creek State 
Wildlife Area and Table 
Mountain State Trust Land 
Lease only – youth only 
TM059K1
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
10 
80 
TM080O1
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
10 
81 
TM081O1
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
20 
91 
TM091O1
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/01/202
6 
25 
91, 92, 96, 101, 102-youth 
only 
TM091K1
R 
04/11/202
6 
5/31/2026 
125 
91 
TM091O2
R 
05/02/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
25

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
24 
1. 
Spring Season. 
Unit 
Hunt 
Code 
Date 
Opened 
Date 
Closed 
Licenses 
Bearded 
Turkey Only 
92 
TM092O1
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/01/202
6 
25 
92 
TM092O2
R 
05/02/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
25 
96 
TM096O1
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/01/202
6 
50 
96 - private land only 
TM096P1
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/01/202
6 
75 
96 
TM096O2
R 
05/02/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
50 
96 - private land only 
TM096P2
R 
05/02/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
50 
101, 102 
TM101O1
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/01/202
6 
25 
101, 102 
TM101O2
R 
05/02/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
25 
103, 107, and 109 
TM103O1
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/01/202
6 
35 
103,107, and 109 
TM103O2
R 
05/02/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
35 
103, 107, 109 - youth only 
TM103K1
R 
04/11/202
6 
5/31/2026 
35 
124, 125, and 129 
TM124O1
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
25 
124, 125, and 129 - youth only 
TM124K1
R 
04/11/202
6 
5/31/2026 
15 
127, 132 
TM127O1
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
30 
139 
TM139O1
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
10 
140 - Lake Dorothey State 
Wildlife Area only 
TM140O1
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
30 
140 - James John State 
Wildlife Area only 
TM140O2
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
20 
444 
TM444O1
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
55 
444 – Private Land Only 
TM444P1
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
30 
851 - Bosque del Oso State 
Wildlife Area only 
TM851O1
R 
04/11/202
6 
05/31/202
6 
20 
Total 
 
 
 
1270

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
25

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
26 
 
2. 
Fall Season 
Unit 
Hunt 
Code 
Date 
Opened 
Date 
Closed 
Licenses 
Either Sex 
15, 27, 37 and 361 
TE015L1R 
09/01/202
6 
10/04/20
26 
15 
25 
TE025L1R 
09/01/202
6 
10/04/20
26 
15 
34 
TE034L1R 
09/01/202
6 
10/04/20
26 
25 
47 
TE047L1R 
09/01/202
6 
10/04/20
26 
25 
59 - Beaver Creek State 
Wildlife Area and Table 
Mountain State Trust Land 
Lease only 
TE059L1R 
09/01/202
6 
10/04/20
26 
15 
85 - Spanish Peaks State 
Wildlife Area - Oberosler 
Tract only 
TE085L1R 
09/01/202
6 
10/04/20
26 
10 
85 - Spanish Peaks State 
Wildlife Area – Dochter Tract 
only 
TE085L2R 
09/01/202
6 
10/04/20
26 
10 
85 -Spanish Peaks State 
Wildlife Area - Sakariason 
Tract only 
TE085L3R 
09/01/202
6 
10/04/20
26 
10 
91 
TE091L1R 
09/01/202
6 
10/23/20
26 
25 
91, 92, 96, 101, and 102 – 
youth only 
TE091K1R 
09/01/202
6 
10/23/20
26 
35 
92 
TE092L1R 
09/01/202
6 
10/23/20
26 
25 
96 
TE096L1R 
09/01/202
6 
10/23/20
26 
60 
101, 102 
TE101L1R 
09/01/202
6 
10/23/20
26 
30 
103, 107, and 109 
TE103L1R 
09/01/202
6 
10/23/20
26 
10 
103, 107, 109 - youth only 
TE103K1R 
09/01/202
6 
10/23/20
26 
10 
124, 125 and 129  
TE124L1R 
09/01/202
6 
10/23/20
26 
15 
124, 125 and 129 - youth only TE124K1R 
09/01/202
6 
10/23/20
26 
15

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
27 
2. 
Fall Season 
Unit 
Hunt 
Code 
Date 
Opened 
Date 
Closed 
Licenses 
Either Sex 
126, 146 
TE126L1R 
09/01/202
6 
10/23/20
26 
20 
127, 132 
TE127L1R 
09/01/202
6 
10/23/20
26 
20 
139 
TE139L1R 
09/01/202
6 
10/23/20
26 
5 
140 - Lake Dorothey State 
Wildlife Area only 
TE140L1R 
09/01/202
6 
10/04/20
26 
10 
140 - James John State 
Wildlife Area only 
TE140L2R 
09/01/202
6 
10/04/20
26 
10 
444 
TE444L1R 
09/01/202
6 
10/04/20
26 
30 
851 - Bosque del Oso State 
Wildlife Area only  
TE851L1R 
09/01/202
6 
10/04/20
26 
10 
Total 
 
 
 
455 
F. 
Special Licenses for Nuisance Turkeys 
1. 
The Director shall have the authority to establish special hunting seasons 
for turkeys, between December 1 and March 31 on an annual basis, when 
necessary to control nuisance turkeys. The Area Wildlife Manager will 
determine the type of license(s) (either-sex or hen only) most appropriate 
to control the conflict. 
a. 
Nuisance turkey hunts are limited to a maximum of 50 licenses per 
landowner, per year. 
 
 
1. 
The Area Wildlife Manager shall provide the landowner with 
special application forms for distribution to individuals of their 
choice. Participants shall submit the completed application 
form with payment to the Division office indicated on the 
application. Nuisance turkey licenses shall be sold at the fall 
season license price. 
b. 
Prior to approving the hunt, the Division shall: 
1. 
Verify that conflicts are occurring. 
2. 
Designate what area shall be open to hunting.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
28 
3. 
Determine the manner of hunting that will be permitted. 
4. 
Determine the number of hunters allowed to hunt in each 
designated area. 
c. 
Hunting will be done under the direction of a District Wildlife 
Manager, following approval by the owner of land where such 
conflict is occurring. 
d. 
Hunters shall hunt in designated areas and on the dates indicated 
on the license. 
1. 
A map or a written description of the designated area open 
to hunting (which would include, but would not be limited to 
landowner(s) name, game management unit, township, 
range and section(s) and/or identification of landmarks such 
as roads, rivers, or fence lines which coincide with 
boundaries), will be provided to each licensed hunter by the 
Division. 
e. 
Any person who purchases a license for a nuisance turkey season 
shall be required to complete a Division harvest survey form and 
return it to the Area office that is nearest the location of the hunt no 
later than 5 days after the season ends. 
#322.5 - RANCHING FOR WILDLIFE – TURKEY 
A. 
Implementation Authority 
1. 
The Director is authorized to implement the Ranching for Wildlife program, 
including the authority to determine ranch enrollment status, enter into 
cooperative agreements with ranches, establish and modify public and 
private season dates on each ranch, and establish and modify license 
allocations to each ranch including the subsequent distribution of licenses 
to the public and private share annually, and may establish additional 
Ranching for Wildlife operating guidelines subject to the following 
provisions. 
B. 
Ranch Entry and Maintenance 
1. 
Ranches must have a minimum of 10,000 acres of privately owned land in 
one contiguous unit. Ranches that meet this 10,000-acre minimum 
requirement may include privately owned non-contiguous parcels in the 
program if the Director determines that their inclusion will contribute to 
meeting the performance standards for the ranch.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
29 
2. 
Ranches must develop a Ranching for Wildlife Management Plan that 
includes goals, objectives, and strategies for achieving such goals and 
objectives for wildlife habitat management, species management, and 
public hunting management. The Management Plan must be approved by 
the Division prior to execution of a Cooperative Agreement for Ranching 
for Wildlife. 
3. 
Ranches may not charge public hunters an access fee for hunting. 
4. 
Except as agreed to in writing by the Division when necessary to meet the 
ranch performance standards or as mutually agreed and contained in the 
Management Plan, ranches must provide for equality of access in terms of 
geographical area and mode of transportation for both public and private 
hunters. No closure or restriction of land or roads shall apply to public 
hunters that do not also apply to private hunters. 
5. 
Public hunts must be established at a time when the species to be hunted 
are present and available for harvest. No public seasons shall be 
established during times when normal winter conditions would prevent 
access to most of the ranch, nor when normal migration patterns of the 
species to be hunted result in the species having migrated off the ranch. 
6. 
Ranches that establish coinciding or overlapping public and private hunts 
may not exclude public hunters from any portion of the ranch due to the 
presence of private hunters. 
7. 
The ranch and the Division will mutually agree to ranch rules regarding 
access to and hunting on the ranch by public hunters. The ranch rules will 
be provided to hunters prior to seasons on the ranch in accordance with 
other provisions contained in this regulation. 
C. 
Cooperative Agreements, Enrollment, Denial of Enrollment, Termination of 
Enrollment 
1. 
The Division is authorized to enter into Cooperative Agreements with 
ranches. 
2. 
Ranches may appeal enrollment decisions to the Parks and Wildlife 
Commission. 
3. 
Cooperative Agreements shall incorporate approved Ranching for Wildlife 
Management Plans as part of the Cooperative Agreement. 
4. 
The Division shall periodically evaluate ranches for enrollment and 
contract performance, and shall establish minimum performance 
standards for ranches enrolled in the program, including wildlife habitat 
management and improvement, public recreation opportunity and 
experience, and any factors intended to contribute to meeting turkey

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
30 
management objectives. Such performance standards shall be 
incorporated into the Cooperative Agreement with the ranch. 
D. 
Turkey Season Structures 
1. 
Public and private spring season opening and closing date parameters. 
a. 
Private seasons may not begin before April 1, nor extend beyond 
June 1. 
b. 
Public seasons may only be established within the opening and 
closing dates of the regularly established spring season. 
c. 
Public hunting seasons shall be a minimum of ten (10) consecutive 
days. 
2. 
Public and private fall season opening and closing date parameters. 
a. 
Public and private seasons may not begin before September 1, nor 
extend beyond November 1 
b. 
Public hunting seasons shall be a minimum of ten (10) consecutive 
days. 
3. 
Manner of Take 
a. 
The manner of take for spring or fall RFW turkey seasons shall be 
the same as that for regularly established spring or fall seasons. 
E. 
License Allocation 
1. 
A maximum of 100 bearded turkey licenses in the spring season and 100 
either-sex turkey licenses in the fall season may be allocated to each 
ranch annually, and subsequently distributed to the public and private 
share according to paragraph b of this regulation. 
2. 
The public shall receive a minimum of forty percent (40%) of the total 
number of licenses allocated for each turkey season on each ranch. 
3. 
License allocation for each ranch shall be approved by the Division and 
recommended to the Director, based upon harvest objectives for the ranch 
jointly determined by the Division and the ranch, hunter crowding, 
enhancement of hunter harvest, and relative densities of the species on 
the ranch. 
4. 
Substitution of licenses of one species or sex for licenses of another 
species or sex shall not be permitted.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
31 
5. 
Landowner preference shall not be used for any public or private 
Ranching for Wildlife license. 
F. 
Youth Licenses 
1. 
The Division and the ranch may formulate and implement youth hunting 
opportunities on any ranch through Division approved youth hunting 
programs. The Division must approve the youth hunting program on the 
ranch prior to any season or license allocation for such youth hunts. 
2. 
A maximum of 15% of the total number of turkey licenses allocated for a 
ranch may be allocated as youth hunting licenses on each ranch, over and 
above the total number of licenses allocated for a ranch. 
3. 
Youth hunting seasons may occur at any time within the broad parameters 
for seasons within the Ranching for Wildlife program. 
4. 
Youth licenses shall be distributed to individual youth hunters by 
mechanisms of the approved youth hunting program on the ranch. Youth 
licenses shall not count as either private or public licenses for purposes of 
calculating the relative share of other licenses allocated for the ranch. 
G. 
License Distribution 
1. 
Applications 
a. 
Applications for private hunter licenses stamped with the ranch 
name and season dates shall be available to the landowner for 
distribution. 
b. 
Public hunter licenses shall be available through application and 
selection from the Division during the annual limited license 
drawing process, except as provided in this regulation. 
H. 
Special Restrictions 
1. 
Unless otherwise provided in these Ranching for Wildlife regulations all 
hunters must comply with other applicable regulations, including, but not 
limited to, manner of take (except that private hunters may use any legal 
weapon during private seasons), hunting hours, application requirements 
and deadlines, bag limits, season participation, mandatory checks, OHV 
restrictions, and other generally applicable regulations for big game 
hunting. 
2. 
A copy of the mutually agreed upon ranch rules will be provided to all 
public hunters prior to their hunting season. All public hunters will be 
required to sign a statement acknowledging that they have read,

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
32 
understand, and agree to comply with all ranch rules, before the hunter is 
allowed access to the ranch. 
a. 
Compliance with ranch rules is a specific condition of the Ranching 
for Wildlife public licenses and subsequent access to the ranch. In 
addition to criminal penalties, non-compliance with ranch rules 
constitutes grounds for suspension and revocation of the license 
and/or being prohibited from further participation in hunting on the 
ranch, and/or in the Ranching for Wildlife program as a public 
hunter. 
b. 
Final determination on any legal action taken towards hunters 
found in non-compliance with ranch rules shall be made solely by 
officers of the Division. This includes any citation that may be 
issued for non-compliance with the provisions of a license, or 
directing a hunter to leave a ranch. Ranch personnel may not direct 
a hunter to leave a ranch without specific authorization of a Division 
officer. 
#323 - Mink, pine marten, badger, gray fox, red fox, swift fox, raccoon, ring-tailed 
cat, striped skunk, western spotted skunk, long-tailed weasel, short-tailed weasel, 
opossum, and muskrat 
A. 
Season Dates and Units 
1. 
Statewide: November 1 - end of February annually. 
B. 
Daily Bag and Possession Limits 
1. 
Unlimited bag and possession. 
#324 - Bobcat 
A. 
Season Dates and Units 
1. 
Statewide: December 1 - end of February annually. 
B. 
Daily Bag and Possession Limits 
1. 
Unlimited bag and possession. 
2. 
Special Restrictions. 
a. 
All bobcat, or their pelts, shall be personally presented by the 
licensee for inspection and must be sealed within 30 days after 
take, or within 5 days after the close of the season, whichever is 
sooner, with a seal provided by the Division. Any bobcat hide/pelt 
not having a seal within 5 days after the close of the season shall

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
33 
be illegal and become property of the State. Seals will only be 
placed on bobcat legally taken in Colorado. No fee shall be 
required for the inspection and issuance of a legal possession seal, 
which shall remain attached to the hide until processed. Bobcat 
hides/pelts shall not be transported, shipped or otherwise taken out 
of Colorado until the hide(s)/pelt(s) are inspected and sealed. The 
legal possession seal, when attached to the bobcat or the pelt, shall 
authorize possession, transportation, and sale thereof. For the 
purposes of this regulation it is illegal to buy, sell, trade, or barter an 
untanned bobcat hide/pelt unless a permanent seal is affixed 
thereto. Only one legal possession seal shall be provided for each 
hide/pelt. 
#325 - Coyote 
A. 
Season Dates and Units 
1. 
Statewide: January 1 - December 31 annually. 
B. 
Daily Bag and Possession Limits 
1. 
Unlimited bag and possession. 
#326 - Beaver 
A. 
Season Dates and Units 
1. 
Statewide, October 1 - April 30 annually. 
B. 
Daily Bag and Possession Limits 
1. 
Unlimited bag and possession.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
34 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 08/30/2007. 
Rules #321, 321.5 eff. 12/30/2007. 
Entire rule eff. 09/01/2008. 
Rules #323, 323.5 eff. 01/01/2009. 
Rules #300 A, 300 B, Article II eff. 09/01/2009. 
Rule #303 E eff. 11/01/2009. 
Rules #304 G, 323 A.1.a, 323 C.5, 323 C.6, 323 D, 323 E eff. 01/01/2010. 
Rule #323 E eff. 03/02/2010. 
Rules #303 A.3, 307, 309, 314- 316, 318 - 322 eff. 05/01/2010. 
Entire rule eff. 09/01/2010. 
Rule #320 C eff. 11/01/2010. 
Rules #323, 323.5 eff. 01/01/2011. 
Entire rule eff. 09/01/2011. 
Rules #303 C.1, 323 A, 323 D, 323 E eff. 01/01/2012. 
Rules #300 E, 304, Article II eff. 09/01/2012. 
Rules #323 B.3.c, 323 D- E eff. 01/01/2013. 
Rules #303 E.9-10, 307 A.2 eff. 03/02/2013. 
Rules #303 E.4-5, 303 E.10.a, 304 G.3.e, 307 A, 308 A.1, 309 A, 310 A.1.a-A.2, 311 
A.1, 312 A.1, 314 A.1, 315 A, 316 A.1, 316 B.1, 318 A.1, 319 A, 320 A, 321 A, 
322 A.1.a, 324 A.1, 325 A.1, 326 A.1, 328 A.1 eff. 09/01/2013. 
Rule #313 A.1 eff. 10/01/2013. 
Rules #323- 323.5 eff. 01/01/2014. 
Rules #300 A.3, 310, 314 A.1.a, 315 A.1.a, 315 A.2.a, 316 A.1.a, 316 B.1.a, 318 A.1.a, 
319 A.1, 320 A, 321 A, 322 A.1.a eff. 09/01/2014. 
Rules #323- 323.5 eff. 01/01/2015. 
Rules #302 B.2, 303 E.5, 306 A.2, 314 A.1.a, 315 A.1.a, 315 A.2.a, 316 A.1.a, 316 
B.1.a, 318 A.1.a, 319 A.1, 320 A.1, 320 A.2, 321 A.1, 321 A.2, 321 A.3, 322 
A.1.a eff. 09/01/2015. 
Rule #323 eff. 01/01/2016. 
Rules #314 A.1.a, 315 A.1.a, 315 A.2.a, 316 A.1, 316 B.1.a, 318 A.1.a, 319 A, 320 A, 
321 A, 322 A.1.a eff. 05/01/2016. 
Rules #303 C.1, 323 D-E eff.01/01/2017. 
Rule #304 G repealed eff. 03/02/2017. 
Rules #303 A.6, 314 A.1.a, 315 A.1.a, 315 A.2.a, 316 A.1.a, 316 B.1, 318 A.1, 319 A.1, 
320 A.1-2, 321 A.1-4, 322 A.1.a eff. 07/01/2017. 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2018.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-3 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
35 
Rule #322 B.3.c.1. eff. 03/02/2018. 
Rules #300 D, 309 B, 313 A.1.a, 314 A, 315 A.1.a, 315 B.1.a, 317 A.1.a, 318 A.1.a, 319 
A, 320 A, 321 A.1.a eff. 05/01/2018. 
Rules #301, 322 A.2, 322 B.1-2, 322 D, 322 E eff. 01/01/2019. 
Rules #313 A.1.a, 314 A.1.a, 314 A.2.a, 315 A.1, 315 B.1.a, 317 A.1.a, 318 A.1, 319 A, 
320 A, 321 A eff. 07/01/2019. 
Rules #300 C, 301 A, 302 B.1,303 A.3, 303 E.4-7, 303 E.8.f, 322 D, 322 E eff. 
01/01/2020. 
Rule #301 B eff. 03/01/2020. 
Rules #301 B.1, 303 A, 313 A.1.a, 314 A, 315 A.1.a, 315 B.1.a, 317 A.1.a, 318 A.1.a, 
319 A, 320 A, 321 A.1.a eff. 06/30/2020. 
Rules #304 B, 315 A.1 eff. 09/01/2020. 
Rules #301 A.1, 301 B.1, 322 D, 322 E eff. 01/01/2021. 
Rule #322 B.2.d eff. 03/02/2021. 
Rules #313 A, 314 A, 315, 317 A, 318 A, 319 A, 320 A, 321 eff. 05/01/2021. 
Rule #315 A.1 emer. rule eff. 09/01/2021. 
Rule #315 A.1 eff. 11/01/2021. 
Rules #301, 322 B.3.d, 322 D, 322 E eff. 01/01/2022. 
Rules #313 A, 314 A, 315, 317 A, 318 A, 319 A, 320 A, 321 A, 322 B.2.b eff. 
05/01/2022. 
Rules #315 A.1 eff. 09/01/2022. 
Rules #301 A.1, 301 B.1, 303 C.4, 322 B.2, 322 C.5, 322 D-E eff. 01/01/2023. 
Rule #322 B.3.d.5 eff. 03/02/2023. 
Rules #304 E, 313 A.1.a, 314 A, 315, 317 A.1.a, 318 A.1, 319 A, 320 A, 321 A.1.a eff. 
05/01/2023. 
Rules #301, 322 C.3.a, 322 D, 322 E eff. 01/01/2024. 
Rules #322 D.2, 322 E.1 eff. 03/01/2024. 
Rules #304 E, 313 A.1.a, 314 A, 315 A.1.a, 315 B.1.a, 317 A.1.a, 319 A, 320 A eff. 
05/01/2024. 
Rules #301, 304 E, 322 D-E eff. 01/01/2025. 
Rule #304 eff. 03/02/2025. 
Rules #304, 313 A.1.a, 314 A, 315 A-B, 317 A.1, 319 A.1-2, 320 A, 322 B.2.e, 322 
B.3.a, 322 E.1 eff. 05/01/2025. 
Rule #304 emer. rule eff. 08/21/2025. 
Rule #304 eff. 12/01/2025. 
Rules #301, 322 D, 322 E eff. 01/01/2026. 
Rule #310 eff. 05/01/2026.
