---
id: "2_CCR_601-26"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "2 CCR 601-26"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=11686&fileName=2%20CCR%20601-26&type=pdf"
---

#### 2_CCR_601-26. 2 CCR 601-26

1 
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION 
Office of Transportation Safety 
RULES GOVERNING HIGH-VISIBILITY ALCOHOL AND DRUG IMPAIRED DRIVING ENFORCEMENT 
PROGRAM 
2 CCR 601-26 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
________________________________________________________________________ 
1.1 
Statement of Basis and Purpose and Statutory Authority 
This regulation is adopted pursuant to the authority in section 43-4-902(3) C.R.S. and is intended to be 
consistent with the requirements of the State Administrative Procedures Act, section 24-4-101 et seq. (the 
“APA”). 
Section 43-4-902(3), C.R.S. provides the Office of Transportation Safety in the Department of 
Transportation with the authority to promulgate rules for the administration of the High-Visibility Alcohol 
and Drug Impaired Driving Enforcement Program. This program will be managed by the Department’s 
Office of Transportation Safety in accordance with these rules. 
2.1 
Scope and Purpose 
The High-Visibility Alcohol and Drug Impaired Driving Enforcement Program will: 
Provide funding annually from the highway safety fund for alcohol and drug impaired driving enforcement 
pursuant to state law; 
Increase funding to local governments to prevent impaired driving, including funds for impaired driving 
public education ahead of High-Visibility Impaired Driving Enforcement; 
Decrease impaired driving related crashes and fatalities; and 
Increase local governments funding for increased High-Visibility Alcohol and Drug Impaired Driving 
Enforcement during high-risk times of the year, including Memorial Day, Independence Day, and New 
Year’s Eve. 
3.1 
Applicability 
The provisions of this section shall be applicable to Colorado cities, counties and municipalities with an 
established Qualified Program who are eligible to apply for and be awarded and allocated money for the 
High-Visibility Alcohol and Drug Impaired Driving Enforcement Program 
4.1 
Definitions 
“Department of Transportation" ("Department" or "CDOT") means the department created pursuant to 
section 24-1-128.7, C.R.S. 
 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-26 
Office of Transportation Safety 
 
2 
"Impaired Driving" means driving a motor vehicle or vehicle when a person has consumed alcohol or one 
or more drugs, or a combination of both alcohol and one or more drugs, that affects the person to the 
slightest degree so that the person is less able than the person ordinarily would have been, either 
mentally or physically, or both mentally and physically, to exercise clear judgment, sufficient physical 
control, or due care in the safe operation of a vehicle. See § 42-4-1301(g), C.R.S. 
“Impaired Driving Program Manager” means the manager designated by the Director of the Office of 
Transportation Safety to oversee state funded impaired driving enforcement programs. 
“Office of Transportation Safety" ("OTS") means the Office at the Department of Transportation created 
pursuant to section 24-42-101, C.R.S. 
“Colorado Law Enforcement Program” (“Program”) means a Colorado government program that has 
statutory authority for enforcing traffic laws. 
“Qualified Program” means program established by a municipality, city and county, or county to deliver 
awareness of high-visibility alcohol and drug impaired driving prevention enforcement and enforce laws 
pertaining to alcohol- and drug-related traffic offenses. Qualified Programs must meet eligibility 
requirements to receive state funds for high-visibility alcohol and drug impaired driving prevention 
enforcement. Qualified Program(s) at a minimum must have the resources to adequately enforce 
impaired driving violations including trained and sworn peace officers, access to toxicological testing 
resources, access to a post-arrest processing facility, administrative support to manage the post-arrest 
duties, grant management duties and program coordination. Program(s) must also have resources to 
educate the public and inform communities about alcohol- and drug-related traffic offenses to support 
high-visibility alcohol and drug impaired driving enforcement episodes. 
5.1 
Eligibility and Evaluation for Awarding Money 
5.1.1 
Eligibility 
Colorado cities, counties and municipalities with an established Qualified Program are eligible to apply for 
and be awarded and allocated money for the High-Visibility Alcohol and Drug Impaired Driving 
Enforcement Program. 
The OTS will annually, at least 60 days before funding allocations, notify all law enforcement agencies(s) 
with Qualified Programs of the funding opportunity and provide application instructions. 
The OTS will review each application and evaluate which applicants can most effectively demonstrate 
that an award of funds from the High-Visibility Alcohol and Drug Impaired Driving Enforcement Program 
will have the greatest impact on impaired driving related crashes, injuries, and fatalities. 
5.1.2 
Evaluation 
A. 
The applications will be evaluated based on the following elements: 
1. 
Project Goals: A statement about the qualified program goals for the project. 
2. 
Objectives: Objectives which are clear, realistic, specific, and measurable. 
3. 
Activities which comprise the plan of operation for the project, describing how the 
activities will achieve each objective. 
4. 
Community collaboration and support: Demonstration that partnerships exist or are being 
developed. Identify partnerships and planning groups that were included in the planning 
and implementation of this program.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-26 
Office of Transportation Safety 
 
3 
5. 
Qualified Program resources: - Describe the Qualified Program’s resources and skills to 
adequately manage the project. 
6. 
Project Evaluation: Describe the evaluation strategy that will be used to show project 
effectiveness and document successful activities. 
7. 
Public and Community Education: How the Qualified Program will educate the public and 
inform communities about alcohol- and drug-related traffic offenses to support High-
Visibility Alcohol and Drug Impaired Driving Enforcement episodes. 
8. 
Budget Narrative: a detailed justification and explanation of budget items. 
6.1 
OTS Application Procedures 
A. 
The OTS will make application forms available through an announcement on the Department's 
website. 
B. 
Applications must be received by the OTS by the deadline date that will be included in the 
application sent to the Qualified Programs. 
C. 
Applications received after the deadline will not be considered, unless approved for consideration 
by the Director of the Office of Transportation Safety. 
D. 
Each applicant will receive written notification of the action taken on its application. 
E. 
Upon submission of the application, the applicant must submit: 
1. 
A copy of its written policies for pursuant to section 24-31-309(6), C.R.S.; 
2. 
A certification to the OTS that the applicant has complied with section 24-31-903(2), 
C.R.S.; 
3. 
Documentation that any peace officer working for the Qualified Program will not be 
required or directed to issue a specified number of citations to individuals stopped during 
a High-Visibility Alcohol and Drug Impaired Driving Enforcement episode. 
7.1 
Qualified Program Enforcement Requirements 
Qualified Program(s) that conduct High-Visibility Alcohol and Drug Impaired Driving Enforcement episode 
checkpoints must implement a recognizable pattern by which vehicles are stopped during a High-Visibility 
Alcohol and Drug Impaired Driving Enforcement episode to prevent bias-motivated stops. 
Qualified Program(s) must locate High-Visibility Alcohol and Drug Impaired Driving Enforcement episodes 
in a general area where an expected concentration of alcohol and drug impaired driving crashes are likely 
to occur or originate. 
Qualified Program(s) must require any peace officer working for their law enforcement agency in the 
High-Visibility Alcohol and Drug Impaired Driving Enforcement Program to, satisfactorily complete annual 
in-service training as required by section 24-31-315, C.R.S. 
Qualified Program(s) must require any peace officer working for their law enforcement agency in 
enforcement activity of the High-Visibility Alcohol and Drug Impaired Driving Enforcement Program to 
comply with State of Colorado Standards for the Standardized Field Sobriety (SFST) Program.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-26 
Office of Transportation Safety 
 
4 
Any Qualified Program that does not comply with, or that has engaged a peace officer under the law 
enforcement agencies employ, who does not comply with the requirements of this section, or the rules, 
regulations, guidelines, or funding terms issued by the Office of Transportation Safety in administering the 
High-Visibility Alcohol and Drug Impaired Driving Enforcement Program, or does not comply with other 
applicable laws, is subject to suspension of its funding received pursuant to the High-Visibility Alcohol and 
Drug Impaired Driving Enforcement Program and may be required to return the money. 
8.1 
Fiscal and Accounting Requirements 
Reimbursement to Qualified Program(s) will be made on a quarterly basis for costs incurred as specified 
in the written agreement between the OTS and the Qualified Program(s). 
Qualified Program(s) must present itemized accountings to the OTS with billings and other records and 
receipts as required to support each item claimed. The OTS will provide reimbursement forms on request. 
9.1 
Declaratory Orders 
The Department may entertain, at its discretion, petitions for declaratory orders pursuant to § 24-4 
105(11), C.R.S. 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor's Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 11/14/2024.
