---
id: "2_CCR_406-8"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "800 - DEFINITIONS"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=11798&fileName=2%20CCR%20406-8&type=pdf"
---

#### 2_CCR_406-8. 800 - DEFINITIONS

1 
DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
CHAPTER W-8 - FIELD TRIALS AND TRAINING OF HUNTING DOGS 
2 CCR 406-8 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL PROVISIONS 
#800 - DEFINITIONS 
See also 24-4-104 CRS, relative to public records and due process; importation, exportation, and release 
restrictions in Chapter 0 of these regulations; bird holding and release for hunting regulations and 
commercial wildlife park license regulations in Chapter W-11; and property specific regulations in Chapter 
W-9. 
A. 
“Field Trial” means any hunting dog trial held under the rules of a dog or kennel club for the 
purpose of gaining points toward a hunting dog championship, including any sanctioned practice 
or training trial where there is organized competition; and any hunt test or other performance 
event in which hunting dogs compete against an accepted standard. 
B. 
“Training” means the noncommercial act of a person(s) instructing a hunting dog(s) to follow 
scent, point or flush birds, retrieve and respond to related verbal and nonverbal commands to 
improve the dog's performance in hunting wildlife or for field trials. Merely exercising or 
conditioning a dog is not training. “Group training” means training involving 10 or more people 
and their associated hunting dogs. 
#801 - LICENSE AND NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS 
A. 
Division Properties 
1. 
A field trial license must be obtained prior to holding any field trial or group training on 
any Division property. Participants in field trials may be charged a fee by the licensee if 
the licensee obtains a Commercial Use Permit pursuant to Chapter W-16. Field trials and 
group training of hunting dogs on Division properties may be held as specified in Chapter 
W-9 and W-16 of these regulations. 
2. 
An annual dog training permit, valid from April 1 through March 31 must be obtained by 
each individual intending to release and shoot privately-owned game birds during training 
on Division properties where such release is authorized in Chapter W-9 of these 
regulations. A maximum of two dogs may be trained by an individual at any time. No 
permit is required for individual dog training by nine or fewer people who are not 
releasing privately-owned game birds during training. Horses cannot be used during 
individual dog training. 
 
 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-8 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
2 
B. 
Private Lands and Other Public Lands 
1. 
No license is required to hold any field trial on private land, or on public lands managed 
by agencies other than Colorado Parks and Wildlife. However, the person sponsoring the 
event is required to notify Colorado Parks and Wildlife on forms provided by the Division 
at least 30 days in advance of the trial, providing the date, location, species and number 
of birds to be released. Such field trials may be held anywhere in the state, year-round, 
provided permission to hold such trial has been obtained from the owner of the property, 
person in charge, or land managing agency. 
ARTICLE II - APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES 
#802 – FIELD TRIAL LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND PROCESSING 
A. 
Application Requirements 
1. 
Prior to the processing of any license application, the applicant is required to submit the 
following: 
a. 
A completed application on forms provided by the Division, which shall include, at 
a minimum: 
1) 
information about the dates and type of trial, location, and name of 
property. 
2) 
acreage needs and specific portion of property to be used, if known. 
3) 
estimated minimum and maximum number of participants, dogs and 
horses. 
4) 
species and number of game birds to be released. 
5) 
anticipated impact to wildlife resources and habitat, including any actions 
proposed to avoid or remediate such impact, if any. 
6) 
anticipated conflict with other wildlife-related recreational activities, 
including actions proposed to avoid or reduce such conflict, if any. 
b. 
Such application shall be accompanied by the license fee specified in Appendix F 
to Chapter W-0 of these regulations. 
c. 
Nothing in this chapter shall preclude application for a field trial license, which 
may authorize a field trial to be held during a closed season. 
2. 
Applications to hold a field trial must be submitted to the Division at least sixty (60) days 
but not more than 11 months prior to the date of the field trial. 
B. 
Criteria for Approval or Denial 
1. 
Applications will be evaluated and approved, conditioned, or denied based on the 
following criteria: 
a. 
Significant adverse impact to wildlife resources or wildlife habitat.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-8 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
3 
b. 
Irresolvable conflict with other wildlife-related recreational activities, including 
established hunting or fishing seasons. 
c. 
Compliance with application requirements and other applicable regulations. 
d. 
Applicant's failure to comply with previous field trial license conditions, including, 
but not limited to, post-field trial habitat rehabilitation requirements. 
2. 
Conditions may include, but are not limited to: 
a. 
maximum number of participants and dogs. 
b. 
maximum number, use, and picketing of horses. 
c. 
type and scope of infrastructures specific to the field trials that would be required 
or allowed. 
d. 
type and scope of vegetation management for the field trials that would be 
allowed, including any rehabilitation requirements. 
e. 
the approach for dealing with time and space conflicts between field trials and 
hunting seasons and other public uses. 
f. 
any other condition intended to avoid or reduce impact to wildlife resources or 
wildlife habitat or avoid or reduce conflict with other wildlife-related recreational 
activities. 
3. 
Previously issued licenses may be modified, suspended, or revoked based on the 
following criteria: 
a. 
impact to wildlife resources or wildlife habitat beyond that identified and 
considered as part of the application and license approval process. 
b. 
conflict with other wildlife-related recreational activities beyond that identified and 
considered as part of the application and license approval process. 
c. 
failure to comply with any of the terms and conditions of the field trial license. 
#803 - INDIVIDUAL DOG TRAINING PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND PROCESSING 
A. 
Application Requirements 
1. 
Prior to the processing of any permit application, the applicant is required to submit the 
following: 
a. 
A completed application on forms provided by the Division, which shall include, at 
a minimum: 
1) 
the applicant's name and the name of the Division property to be used. 
2) 
specific portion of property to be used, if known. 
3) 
species of privately-owned game birds to be released. 
b. 
Such application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable $20 permit fee.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-8 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
4 
2. 
Applications must be submitted at least 30 days prior to the first anticipated training date 
of the year. 
B. 
Criteria for Approval or Denial 
1. 
Applications will be evaluated and approved, conditioned, or denied based on the 
following criteria: 
a. 
irresolvable conflict with other wildlife-related recreational activities, including 
established hunting or fishing seasons. 
b. 
compliance with application requirements and other applicable regulations. 
c. 
applicant's failure to comply with previous dog training permit conditions. 
2. 
Conditions may include, but are not limited to: 
a. 
specific portion of the property to be used. 
b. 
any other condition intended to avoid or reduce conflict with other wildlife-related 
recreational activities. 
3. 
Previously issued permits may be modified, suspended, or revoked based on the 
following criteria: 
a. 
failure to comply with restrictions on the maximum number of participants and 
dogs. 
b. 
conflict with other wildlife-related recreational activities beyond that identified and 
considered as part of the application and permit approval process. 
c. 
failure to comply with any of the terms and conditions of the dog training permit. 
#804 - RELEASE AND TAKING OF WILDLIFE 
A. 
The only wildlife which may be released for field trials or hunting dog training are privately-owned 
game birds. All releases must be done in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and other 
applicable regulations, including, but not limited to, #007, #008, and #009 of these regulations. 
B. 
The person in charge of any field trial or dog training is authorized to designate official gunners to 
kill, take, or attempt to kill or take game birds released during the field trial or training activity. A 
valid small game license is required for all designated gunners participating in dog training 
activities pursuant to this section. 
C. 
The taking of any wildlife not authorized in accordance with this chapter shall immediately be 
reported to the Division. 
ARTICLE III - TRAINING OF HUNTING DOGS FOR HUNTING 
#805 - TRAINING ON WILDLIFE 
A. 
Individuals may train hunting dogs on wild game birds from August 1st through April 15. 
B. 
Only firearms shooting blank cartridges or shells shall be used while training hunting dogs on wild 
game when a hunting season is not in progress for such wildlife.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-8 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
5 
C. 
The training of dogs on coyotes is permitted except from April 16 through July 15 of each 
calendar year. 
D. 
The training of dogs on raccoons is permitted except from May 1 through June 30 of each 
calendar year. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Chapter 13 eff. 07/01/2007. 
Chapter 11 Sections #1102; #1105; #1107 eff. 10/30/2007. 
Chapter 14 eff. 03/01/2008. 
Chapter 11 Section #1103 eff. 05/01/2008. 
Chapter 10 Sections 1003, 1004 eff. 09/01/2008. 
Chapters 10 through 14 recodified as 2 CCR 406-10 through 2 CCR 406-14 respectively on 04/01/2009. 
Chapter 8 recodified as 2 CCR 406-8 on 04/01/2009; for history and versions prior to 04/01/2009, see 2 
CCR 406-6. 
Rules #800-#801, #805 eff. 01/01/2015. 
Rules #800 B, #801 A.2, #803 eff. 01/01/2018. 
Rules #801 A.1, 802, 803 A.1, 803 B.3 eff. 01/01/2025.
