---
id: "2_CCR_605-1"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "2 CCR 605-1"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=10851&fileName=2%20CCR%20605-1&type=pdf"
---

#### 2_CCR_605-1. 2 CCR 605-1

1 
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION 
Transportation Commission 
RULES AND REGULATIONS BY THE COLORADO DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION FOR THE 
COLORADO STATE INFRASTRUCTURE BANK 
2 CCR 605-1 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Chapter 1: 
General Provisions 
1.1 
Statutory Authority 
The statutory authority for the Transportation Commission of Colorado (Commission) to adopt these rules 
is found in section 43-1-113.5(3), C.R.S. 
1.2 
Purpose 
The purpose of these rules is to define eligibility requirements, prescribe the application and selection 
processes, and to detail certain terms for securing Financial Assistance, for public Transportation Projects 
within the State, from the CO SIB. 
1.3 
Applicability 
These rules shall be applicable to any public or private Project Sponsor of public Transportation Projects 
within the State. 
Chapter 2: 
Definitions 
The following definitions shall apply to terms used in the Rules. 
2.1 
“CAB” means the Colorado Aeronautical Board, a statutorily created board appointed by the 
Governor and approved by the Senate. 
2.2 
“CO SIB” means the Colorado State Infrastructure Bank. 
2.3 
“Commission” means the transportation commission of Colorado – the State’s transportation 
decision-making body. 
2.4 
“Default” means the condition of a loan where the recipient has failed to meet a contractual 
obligation and failed to cure within thirty (30) days, including but not limited to: failure to make the 
loan payment; failure to use loan proceeds for stated purpose; failure to submit progress reports. 
2.5 
“Department” means the Colorado Department of Transportation. 
2.6 
“Federal-aid program” means any funds authorized by the United States Congress to assist 
states in providing for transportation. 
2.7 
“Financial Assistance” means a loan or any credit assistance that the COSIB is authorized to 
offer. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 605-1 
Transportation Commission 
 
2 
2.8 
“Interest Rate” means the semi-annual interest rate approved by the Commission. 
2.9 
“OFMB” means the Colorado Department of Transportation’s Office of Financial Management 
and Budget. 
2.10 
“Political Subdivision” means a county, municipality, Service Authority, or special district 
authorized to enter into intergovernmental agreements pursuant to § 29-1-203(2), C.R.S. 
2.11 
“Project Sponsor” means the entity or organization that is requesting Financial Assistance. 
2.12 
“Public-Private Initiative” means a nontraditional arrangement between the Department and one 
or more private or public entities as defined in §43-1-1201(3), C.R.S. 
2.13 
“Review Committee” or “Committee” means the SIB loan review committee as described in Rule 
4.4.1) herein. 
2.14 
“State” means the state of Colorado. 
2.15 
“State Agency” means every entity in the executive branch of the State’s government including 
boards, commissions, departments, divisions, and offices. 
2.16 
“TIP/STIP” means the metropolitan planning organization’s multiyear Transportation Improvement 
Program/Statewide Transportation Improvement Program. 
2.17 
“Transportation Project” means the planned undertaking of an endeavor for the purpose of 
conveying passengers or goods. 
Chapter 3: 
Eligibility Requirements for Financial Assistance 
3.1 
Eligible Project Sponsors 
Entities eligible to receive Financial Assistance from the CO SIB shall include public entities such as 
Political Subdivisions and State Agencies. Also, private companies and non-profit organizations shall be 
eligible either with a local government partner, or under the authority of a Public-Private Initiative. 
3.2 
Eligible projects 
3.2.1 
Only qualified projects shall be eligible for Financial Assistance. Qualified projects shall 
include any Commission-authorized project, right-of-way acquisition, federal-aid project, 
maintenance project, or safety project. 
3.2.2 
Commission-authorized projects – Any public or private Transportation Project as 
authorized by the Commission including, but not limited to planning, environmental 
impact studies, feasibility studies, engineering, construction, reconstruction, resurfacing, 
restoring, rehabilitation, or replacement of a public or private transportation facility within 
the State. 
3.2.3 
Right-of-way acquisitions – The acquisition of real or personal property, or interests 
therein, for a public or private transportation facility within the State. 
3.2.4 
Federal projects – Any highway, transit, aviation, rail, or other Transportation Project 
within the State that is eligible for financing or Financial Assistance under State or federal 
law.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 605-1 
Transportation Commission 
 
3 
3.2.5 
Maintenance projects – The maintenance, repair, improvement, or construction of any 
public or private highway, road, street, parkway, transit, aviation, or rail project within the 
State. 
3.2.6 
Safety Projects – The acquisition, improvement, or construction of rights-of-way, bridges, 
tunnels, railroad-highway crossings, drainage structures, signs, guardrails, or protective 
structures within this State. 
3.3 
Ineligible Projects 
Qualified projects shall not include transportation facilities and other Transportation Projects that are 
restricted to private use. 
Chapter 4: 
Disbursement of Moneys 
4.1 
Application process 
4.1.1 
All applications shall be submitted to the Department. The application shall be completed 
as described in the application package. If the application received by the Department is 
incomplete, it shall be rejected and not considered for Financial Assistance until 
completed. 
4.1.2 
Application package – The application package shall contain instructions and guidelines 
for completing the application and such package shall be available upon request. The 
Project Sponsor shall be responsible for requesting an application package from the 
Department. 
4.2 
Project Evaluation 
The evaluation shall identify how the project will benefit from Financial Assistance and the capability of 
the Project Sponsor to meet the terms for debt repayment. The Review Committee shall evaluate the 
projects, and provide documentation and a recommendation regarding each project to the Commission or 
the CAB for aviation projects. 
4.3 
Evaluation Criteria. Project evaluations shall be accomplished by incorporating a rating scheme 
across specific criteria as described below: 
4.3.1 
Project Type – Project Sponsors shall identify the type of project (road and highway, 
transit, aviation, and rail). This shall allow the commission to promote its objectives 
regarding types of Transportation Projects assisted by the CO SIB. 
4.3.2 
Public/Private Partnerships – Project Sponsors shall indicate whether it is a public or 
private entity. An evaluation on the basis of public/private partnerships shall allow the CO 
SIB to facilitate Transportation Projects that promote public purposes and feature some 
private financing. 
4.3.3 
Financial Need – Project Sponsors shall submit financial and technical information as 
requested in the application to help identify how sponsored Transportation Projects would 
benefit financially from CO SIB Financial Assistance. 
4.3.4 
Repayment Source – The Project Sponsor shall present a statement of revenue sources 
for the purpose of paying back loans, e.g., fees, HUTF revenues, local option sales taxes, 
passenger facility charges, and general fund property taxes. This criterion shall allow the 
sponsor to demonstrate its ability to repay the loan.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 605-1 
Transportation Commission 
 
4 
4.3.5 
Security Provisions – The Project Sponsor shall be required to identify security 
provisions, e.g., HUTF revenues, property, bank reserves. This criterion shall allow a 
measure of the Project Sponsor’s potential to secure the loan. 
4.3.6 
Financial Ratios – Project Sponsors shall provide the appropriate information requested 
in the application regarding its current financial condition and substantiating 
documentation on the total cost of the project including additional funding sources that 
the sponsor may intend to use to complete the project. This criterion shall demonstrate 
the Project Sponsor’s commitment to its project and validate the cost of the project. 
4.3.7 
Term of Financial Obligation –The Project Sponsor shall indicate how long it needs to 
repay the loan up to ten years. This criterion shall illustrate the length of the CO SIB’s 
financial obligation to a Project Sponsor’s Transportation Project, which is important to 
replenishing the Colorado State Infrastructure Bank’s capital to accommodate future 
Financial Assistance to subsequent applicants. 
4.3.8 
Project Viability – Project Sponsors shall reveal any other options for funding the project. 
This criterion shall provide a measure of a project’s viability without Financial Assistance 
from the CO SIB. 
4.3.9 
Project Benefits – Project Sponsors shall be required to briefly describe the benefits of its 
Transportation Project. As a counterpoint, Project Sponsors shall also be required to 
describe the likely negative effects of NOT receiving Financial Assistance from the CO 
SIB. This criterion shall identify benefits gained, from the Transportation Project receiving 
Financial Assistance, to the transportation system. 
4.3.10 Project Planning – In order to demonstrate local commitment as part of a fiscally 
constrained plan, Project Sponsors shall indicate if their project is in the TIP/STIP, eligible 
to be amended into the TIP/STIP, in another approved transportation planning document, 
or not in any plan. 
4.4 
Review Committee 
4.4.1 
The Review Committee shall consist of the following: one member of the Transportation 
Commission (or the CAB for aviation projects) who will chair the Review Committee; the 
regional transportation director from the appropriate engineering region or the divisional 
director from the aeronautics division, or transit and rail division as appropriate; the 
CDOT chief financial officer or manager of OFMB, and the CO SIB Manager. 
4.4.2 
Duties of the Committee 
The Review Committee shall evaluate loan applications based upon the responses to the criteria 
described in Rule 4.3 herein; examine loan documentation including the sponsor’s financial 
statements to assure that a pending loan meets CO SIB rules standards and statutory guidelines; 
review the planning and engineering aspects of the loan project. Also, develop procedures for 
executing loan contracts and, as required, review and, if appropriate recommend amending the 
terms of already executed loan contracts, periodically review maturing loans and progress 
reports, and in case of Default, decide what collection efforts should be taken to restore past-due 
loans and other nonperforming loans to satisfactory condition.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 605-1 
Transportation Commission 
 
5 
4.4.3 
Evaluations from the Committee 
The Review Committee shall submit its recommendation and final evaluation to the OFMB. 
Regardless of the merits of the project or its total cost, the Committee shall not recommend to the 
Commission or the CAB that it lend an applicant an amount that it considers beyond the 
applicant’s capacity to repay even if it means the project cannot go forward at that time. 
4.5 
Funding Procedure 
The OFMB shall present the Review Committee’s recommendation and evaluation to the Commission or 
the CAB for action, and the Commission or the CAB shall approve the requested amount or recommend a 
different maximum level of Financial Assistance for the project. 
4.6 
Loan Agreement 
4.6.1 
The OFMB shall negotiate the terms of a loan agreement with the approved Project 
Sponsor. 
4.6.2 
Fiduciary provisions – Unless specifically exempted by the Commission or the CAB, loan 
agreements for construction will specify that the funds will be disbursed in their entirety to 
a third party fiduciary or escrow agent with which the Project Sponsor has entered into an 
agreement. It shall be the responsibility of the CO SIB Manager to validate requests for 
construction draws by the contractor and to provide periodic advances of fund to the 
contractor, as authorized by the terms of the construction contract. The third party 
administrator of the loan shall also provide periodic progress reports to the Committee. In 
instances where the loan is for the purchase of real property unrelated to a construction 
project or for the purchase of equipment, the third party will disburse the funds upon 
presentation of the requisite documentation demonstrating that the property or equipment 
procured is that for which the loan was approved and that the amounts paid match those 
presented in the loan application. 
4.6.3 
Ongoing interest – The loan agreement shall specify that the Department retains a 
collateral interest in the item(s) procured with the loan proceeds and that the sponsor 
may not sell the items procured until such time as payment in full is made upon the loan. 
Chapter 5: 
Interest Rates and Fees 
5.1 
Interest earnings and/or origination fees are required to re-capitalize the CO SIB and to offset a 
portion of the cost of its administration. There shall be no interest-free loans. However, interest 
payments may be delayed for up to two years, and all accrued interest can be capitalized into the 
principal outstanding balance. In addition, an origination fee to partially offset the cost of 
administering the CO SIB may be assessed. If such fee is assessed, the calculated amount can 
be added to principal to be repaid according to the agreed upon amortization schedule. 
5.2 
Interest Rate –The Interest Rate for loans from the CO SIB shall be established and adopted by 
the resolution of the Commission not later than June 30 of each year for loans applied for during 
the ensuing months of July; August; September; October; November; December. An Interest 
Rate shall be established and adopted by resolution of the Commission not later than December 
31 of each year for loans originating during the ensuing months of January; February; March; 
April; May; June.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 605-1 
Transportation Commission 
 
6 
5.3 
Origination Fee – Pursuant to § 43-1-113.5(7), C.R.S., a fee may be charged to reimburse the 
Department for reasonable expenses incurred while administering the CO SIB. Not later the June 
30 of each year, the Commission shall determine whether or not to assess an origination fee for 
the ensuing fiscal year. If assessed, the origination fee schedule shall be as follows: a maximum 
of one percent for loan proceeds up to $1 million, three-quarters of a percent for loan proceeds 
over $1 million and up to $2.5 million, one-half percent on the amount of loan proceeds over $2.5 
million and up to $5 million, and one-quarter percent on the amount of loan proceeds over $5 
million. 
Chapter 6: 
Repayment of Loans 
6.1 
Loan Amortization 
Financial Assistance in the form of a loan shall be amortized and simple interest shall be applied to the 
outstanding principal of each loan. An amortization schedule shall be attached to the loan agreement 
between the Department and the Project Sponsor. 
6.2 
Payback Period 
The payback period for Financial Assistance shall be not more than ten years. The term of a loan 
requested by a Project Sponsor shall be one of the criteria used for evaluation. 
6.3 
Remedies in case of Default 
6.3.1 
If a recipient of Financial Assistance from the CO SIB fails to meet any of the terms or 
conditions of the loan agreement and fails to cure within thirty (30) days, the recipient 
shall be in Default, as defined in Rule 2.4. The Department shall notify the recipient of the 
condition. If the recipient fails to cure within thirty (30) days thereof, the Department may 
declare the entire principal amount of the loan then outstanding immediately due and 
payable, and bring a right of action against such recipient in district court to seek any 
applicable legal or equitable remedy, including reasonable attorney fees. 
6.3.2 
Default on loan repayment 
If the recipient does not make a scheduled payment and fails to cure within thirty (30) days, the 
Department may assess a late charge penalty or initiate debt collection efforts to recover the 
amounts due. 
Chapter 7: 
Declaratory Orders 
7.1 
The Transportation Commission and the Department may entertain, at their sole discretion, 
petitions for declaratory orders pursuant to § 24-4-105(11), C.R.S. relating to the CO SIB. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 11/30/2009. 
Entire rule eff. 06/14/2023.
