---
id: "2_CCR_406-13"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1300 - DEFINITIONS"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=10782&fileName=2%20CCR%20406-13&type=pdf"
---

#### 2_CCR_406-13. 1300 - DEFINITIONS

1 
DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
CHAPTER W-13 - POSSESSION OF WILDLIFE, SCIENTIFIC COLLECTING, AND SPECIAL 
LICENSES 
2 CCR 406-13 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL PROVISIONS 
#1300 - DEFINITIONS 
A. 
“Aquatic management” means taking or possessing fish, amphibians, crustaceans, or mollusks 
for the purpose of temporarily or permanently altering the composition of species in a body of 
water. 
B. 
“Bona fide scientific research” means: systematic investigative or experimental activities which 
are carried out for the purpose of acquiring new and relevant knowledge pertaining to wildlife 
biology, ecology or management, or the revision of accepted conclusions, theories, or laws in the 
light of newly discovered facts, and which are conducted in a humane fashion by qualified 
personnel, and the results of which would meet the accepted standards for publication in a 
refereed scientific journal. 
C. 
“Scientific collection” means take or possession of wildlife for inventory purposes, to estimate 
population size or ascertain distribution, taxonomic classification or for environmental 
assessment. 
#1301 - POSSESSION 
A. 
No person shall, at any time, have in possession or under control any wildlife caught, taken or 
killed outside of this state which were caught, taken or killed at a time, in a manner, or for a 
purpose, or in any other respect which is prohibited by the laws of the state, territory or country in 
which the same were caught, taken or killed; or which were shipped out of said state, territory or 
country in violation of the laws thereof. 
ARTICLE II - SCIENTIFIC COLLECTING LICENSE 
#1315 - PURPOSE 
A. 
A scientific collecting license may be issued for the purpose of importing, marking, banding. or 
scientific collection. 
B. 
A scientific collecting license may be issued for the purpose of bird banding for educational 
purposes or for the possession of fish, mollusks, and crustaceans for educational purposes. 
C. 
A scientific collecting license may be issued for the purpose of conducting bona fide scientific 
research. 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-13 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
2 
D. 
A scientific collecting license may be issued for the purpose of teaching survey techniques in a 
post-secondary educational setting. Licenses granted under this subsection are valid only for 
Rodentia, Insectivora, Chiroptera, long-tailed weasel (Mustela frenata), short-tailed weasel or 
ermine (Mustela erminea), fish, or amphibians. Animals captured under this subsection must be 
released immediately at the capture site after identification and necessary handling and/or 
marking has taken place. 
E. 
A scientific collecting license may be issued for the purpose of conducting aquatic management. 
#1316 - LICENSE REQUIREMENTS 
A. 
Application Procedures 
1. 
At least thirty (30) days prior to the anticipated need for a license, applicants must apply 
on forms provided by the Division. The application must include payment in the amount of 
the license fee established in § 33-4-102, C.R.S., as specified in 2 CCR 406-0: Appendix 
F. 
2. 
Applications must include a detailed description of project objectives, sampling 
methodologies, sampling sites (with a map upon the Division’s request), species and 
quantity of wildlife to be taken or possessed, reasons why the collection is not possible 
during an open season or why collections would exceed the established bag limits, a 
description of the proposed disposition of collected wildlife and any other information the 
Division finds relevant to its decision whether to approve an application. 
3. 
Applications for the purpose of conducting bona fide scientific research must include a 
detailed study plan which contains the following elements: a statement of the need for the 
study and expected management application and benefit to the state; a description of 
study area(s), data collection and analytical methodologies which demonstrate ability to 
meet study objectives; and a description of financial and other resources which 
demonstrate ability to meet study objectives. 
4. 
All applications shall be approved by the appropriate Regional Manager(s), and 
Terrestrial or Aquatic Section manager or their designees. The decision whether to 
approve an application will be based on the activity’s potential impact on state wildlife 
resources. When approving an application, the Division may include any license terms it 
finds reasonably necessary to further the purposes of articles 1 to 6 of title 33, C.R.S. 
5. 
Federal or state agencies applying for a job-related scientific collecting license shall be 
exempt from remitting the license fee but must comply with all other provisions of this 
chapter. The license fee will be required for projects outside normal agency duties. 
6. 
Applications must state whether any proposed activity will occur within one mile of 
designated critical habitat for any species listed as threatened or endangered under the 
federal Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. § 1531, et seq. 
7. 
If an application is denied the applicant shall be notified in writing of the reasons therefor. 
Applications may be denied for the following reasons: 
a. 
The Division determines the proposed collection is not for a purpose identified in 
#1315. 
b. 
The collecting could be conducted during an established season with an 
appropriate hunting, fishing, or trapping license.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-13 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
3 
c. 
The Division determines the proposed activity may adversely affect (i) any wildlife 
that is the property of the state under 33-1-101(2), C.R.S., including but not 
limited to species protected by the Colorado Nongame, Endangered, or 
Threatened Species Conservation Act, § 33-2-101, C.R.S., et seq., or the federal 
Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. § 1531, et seq., or (ii) any wildlife habitat. 
d. 
The application is incomplete. 
e. 
The application fee is not included. 
f. 
Information being sought by the study is already available, as determined by the 
Division. 
g. 
Reporting and notification requirements for a current or previous license issued 
to the applicant have not been met. 
h. 
Applicant has failed to show compliance with any other applicable local, state, 
federal, or tribal law, including other applicable permitting or licensing 
requirements. 
B. 
Licensing 
1. 
The license will expire on the date specified in the license, which will be the minimum 
time the Division determines is necessary to accomplish the purpose of the license or 12 
months after the license is issued, whichever is sooner. 
2. 
The Licensee shall notify the Division personnel specified in the license prior to engaging 
in any activity authorized by the license. 
3. 
The license will specify the methods of take authorized. Only a license for a bona fide 
scientific research may authorize the methods described in § 33-6-206(1), C.R.S. 
4. 
A license for educational purposes will not authorize removing live wildlife from the wild. 
5. 
The Division may revoke, suspend, annul, limit, or modify a license if: 
a. 
the Licensee violates any provision of the license; 
b. 
the Licensee violates any local, state, of federal law; 
c. 
the Licensee supplied false information in its application; 
d. 
the Division finds revocation, suspension, annulment, limitation, or modification 
necessary to avoid substantial danger to public health and safety; or 
e. 
the Division finds revocation, suspension, annulment, limitation, or modification 
necessary to further the purposes of articles 1 to 6 of title 33, C.R.S. 
C. 
Reporting 
1. 
The Licensee shall provide the Division with a report within thirty (30) days of the 
expiration date of the license or upon request by the Division. Such report shall include all 
information and findings as required by the Division using appropriate forms supplied by 
the Division.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 406-13 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
4 
2. 
Failure to submit a complete report within thirty (30) days of license expiration or upon 
request by the Division, shall result in denial of future licenses for up to three (3) years. 
#1317 - SPECIAL PROVISIONS 
A. 
The Licensee must carry the license when engaging in any activity authorized in the license. 
B. 
A scientific collection license may allow employees, agents, or students under the supervision of 
the licensee to assist the licensee in performing activities authorized in the license. Any such 
employees, agents or students shall carry a copy of the license while engaged in field work. 
C. 
Division employees acting within the scope of their employment are not required to obtain a 
scientific collecting license. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Chapter 13 recodified as 2 CCR 406-13 on 04/01/2009; for history and versions prior to 04/01/2009, see 
2 CCR 406-8. 
Section #1317 B eff. 01/01/2014. 
Section #1315 B eff. 11/01/2016. Section #1317 B repealed eff. 11/01/2016. 
Entire rule eff. 05/01/2023.
