---
id: "2_CCR_601-4"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "2 CCR 601-4"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=8635&fileName=2%20CCR%20601-4&type=pdf"
---

#### 2_CCR_601-4. 2 CCR 601-4

1 
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION 
Transportation Commission 
RULES PERTAINING TO TRANSPORT PERMITS FOR THE MOVEMENT OF EXTRA-LEGAL 
VEHICLES OR LOADS 
2 CCR 601-4 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
CHAPTER 1 
AUTHORITY AND GENERAL PROVISIONS 
100 
STATEMENT OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE  
101 
History 
The Rules Pertaining to Transport Permits for the Movement of Extra-Legal Vehicles or Loads were made 
effective on the following dates: June 30, 1984; January 30, 1986; November 30, 1986; January 30, 1988; 
May 30, 1988; April 30, 1989; March 4, 1991; April 30, 1992; July 30, 1999; January 30, 2004; August 1, 
2007; August 1, 2010, June 30, 2012, and November 14, 2015. 
102 
Statement of Basis and Purpose and Statutory Authority 
The July 2015 rulemaking was initiated to conform the rules to a change in HB14-1160, codified at § 42-
4-510(11)(a)(VII)(D), C.R.S., which created a new annual fleet permit for non-interstate overweight 
divisible loads pertaining to power units utilizing a trailer with two or three axles. Additionally, the 
Department is clarifying height restrictions in conformance with § 42-4-504(1), C.R.S., incorporating 
processes for the new electronic permitting system, and conforming the Auxiliary Power Unit (“APU”) 
requirements to a change in weight made in MAP-21 (23 U.S.C. 127), increasing the APU from 400 to 
550 lbs. Thereafter, with the passage of the FAST Act, codified at 23 U.S.C. 127, a rulemaking was 
initiated in 2016 to conform the requirements of the Act and make other minor changes. 
In 2016, the Department updated the rules to conform to the requirements of the FAST Act, codified at 23 
U.S.C. 127, and to make other minor changes. Thereafter, in 2017, a rulemaking was initiated at the 
request of the Office of Legislative Legal Services to bring the incorporation by reference section from the 
2016 rulemaking into compliance with the requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act under § 24-4-
103, C.R.S. 
Specific statutory authority for the Colorado Transportation Commission to adopt and promulgate Rules 
pertaining to Transport Permits for the operation or movement of Extra-legal Vehicles or Loads, is 
contained in § § 42-4-510 (1)(b), 511(1), and § 43-1-106(8)(k), C.R.S. Various permits issued under the 
law require restrictions or conditions for movement which includes using Pilot Escort Vehicles to 
accompany the movement of Loads, in an effort to protect the health, safety and welfare of the traveling 
public. Conditions for requirements prescribed by the Department are statutorily authorized under § 42-4-
510 (3), C.R.S. 
The purpose of the Rules is to comply with state statutes that allow the movement on State Highways of 
Vehicles and Loads exceeding Legal Limits provided that the Department issues a permit for such 
Vehicles and Loads. Section 42-4-510 (3), C.R.S. authorizes the Department to prescribe conditions of 
operation for the movement of Extra-Legal Loads. 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
2 
103 
General Provisions 
103.1 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load shall not operate or move on a State Highway, except by 
permit as provided in the Rules. The Department may, upon submission of an application 
in writing, by facsimile, or by electronic means and Good Cause being shown therefore, 
issue a single-trip, a special, or an annual Transport Permit authorizing the Applicant to 
operate or move an Extra-legal Vehicle or Load of a size or weight exceeding the Legal 
Limits established by or otherwise not in conformity with § 42-4-501 through §42-4-509, 
C.R.S. All permits shall be issued at the discretion of the Department, as provided in §42-
4-510, C.R.S. 
103.1.1 All Extra-legal permits issued by the Department are valid for Nondivisible 
Vehicles or Loads only, unless otherwise specified in this rule. 
103.1.2 As directed by § 42-4-504(1), C.R.S., the legal Vehicle Height limit of fourteen 
feet six inches shall apply to Vehicles, unladen or with Load, on all Highways 
within the Department’s jurisdiction. This legal Vehicle limit does not apply to 
Vehicles travelling on Highways where there are overhead Highway structures 
that limit the vertical clearance to a lesser Height. The vertical clearances and 
locations of said structures may be found at 
www.coloradodot.info/business/permits/truckpermits. 
103.2 
In the permit, the Department may: 
103.2.1 Limit the number of trips or establish seasonal or other time limitations of 
operation; 
103.2.2 Limit or prescribe other conditions of operation when necessary to protect the 
safety of Highway users, the efficient movement of traffic, or the State Highways 
from undue damage; 
103.2.3 Require security to compensate for any injury; 
103.2.4 Prescribe conditions necessary for the proper administration and enforcement of 
the extra-legal permit program. 
103.3 
The Permittee shall be responsible for compliance with: 
103.3.1 All terms and conditions in the Rules; 
103.3.2 All terms and conditions in the permit; 
103.3.3 All other applicable legal requirements, including the Commercial Vehicle Rules. 
103.4 
The Permittee shall be responsible for the safe movement of the Extra-legal Vehicle or 
Load. 
103.5 
The Department will publish an electronic copy of the Rules on its website along with the 
Bridge Weight Limit Map, the Pilot Escort and Oversize Restriction Map, and the Height 
Restriction Map. 
CHAPTER 2 
DEFINITIONS 
200 
Terms used in the Rules shall have either their common sense meaning, or the meaning provided 
in §42-1-102, C.R.S., or the meaning provided below, as applicable.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
3 
201 
Applicant - An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, or association submitting an application 
for a Transport Permit. 
202 
Auxiliary Power Unit (APU) - A portable, truck-mounted power system that can provide climate 
control and power for trucks without idling. 
203 
Axle or Single-axle - All wheels, whose centers may be included within two parallel transverse 
vertical planes not more than forty inches apart, extending across the full Width of the Vehicle. 
204 
Axle Group - An assemblage of two or more consecutive Axles that are considered to be together 
for the purpose of determining their combined Load effect on a bridge or other Highway structure: 
204.1 
TANDEM AXLE - As defined in §42-4-507 (4) (b) C.R.S., A Tandem Axle is defined as 
two or more consecutive Axles, the centers of which may be included between parallel 
vertical planes spaced more than forty inches and not more than ninety-six inches apart, 
extending across the full Width of the Vehicle. 
204.2 
TRIPLE AXLE - Any three consecutive axles whose extreme centers between any two 
axles within the grouping are not more than 96 inches apart and are individually attached 
to or articulated from, or both, a common attachment to the vehicle including a 
connecting mechanism designed to equalize the load between axles. 
204.3 
QUAD AXLE - Any four consecutive axles whose extreme centers between any two axles 
within the grouping are not more than 96 inches apart and are individually attached to or 
articulated from, or both, a common attachment to the vehicle including a connecting 
mechanism designed to equalize the load between axles. 
205 
Booster Axle - An additional Axle used to distribute weight. Also referred to as a dolly, jeep, or 
stinger Axle. 
206 
Bridge Weight Limit Map - A map prepared by the Department indicating the Load posted bridges 
and the allowable Axle weight for other bridges within the State Highway system. This map 
defines the maximum Axle and Gross Vehicle Weights authorized by the Rules. A copy of this 
map may be obtained from the Department. This map illustrates all bridges within the State 
Highway system in the following color coded manner to indicate allowable weight limits of Extra-
legal Vehicles or Loads on bridges: 
206.1 
Black - No overweight Vehicles or Loads allowed. 
206.2 
Orange - Major restrictions. 
206.3 
Yellow - Moderate restrictions. 
206.4 
White - Minimal restrictions. 
207 
Bulk Fluid Milk Products – A cargo tank shipment of raw unpasteurized milk from a dairy farm to 
market for processing. 
208 
Cluster Lights - An assemblage of three or more red or yellow clearance lights. 
209 
Commercial Vehicle Rules - The State of Colorado, Department of Public Safety, Rules and 
Regulations Concerning Minimum Standards for the Operation of Commercial Vehicles (8 C.C.R. 
1507-1). 
210 
Department - The Colorado Department of Transportation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
4 
211 
Designated Highway Segments - Those highways as identified in 42-4-505 (3), C.R.S. 
212 
Divisible Load - A Vehicle or Load that can be divided into separate or different parts in less than 
eight work hours or does not compromise the intended purpose of the Vehicle or Load or render it 
unable to perform the functions for which it was intended. See also “nondivisible load.” 
213 
Double Dolly Weight Chart - A weight chart used by the Department in conjunction with the 
Bridge Weight Map in determining the maximum weight allowance for Vehicles with a double 
dolly axle configuration or dual lane trailer. 
214 
Emergency - An imminent natural or man-made disaster including rising water, fire, unusual 
storm, train wreck, flood, washout, and similar disasters affecting the general public's welfare. 
215 
Extra-legal Vehicle or Load - An overweight, overlength, overwidth or overheight Vehicle or Load 
which exceeds the Legal Limits and for which the Department has granted a Transport Permit to 
operate or move on State Highways. 
216 
Flashing Yellow Light - A warning lamp mounted as high as practicable, which shall be capable of 
displaying a flashing, oscillating, or rotating yellow light with sufficient intensity to be visible at 500 
feet in normal sunlight. 
217 
Good Cause - A need to operate or move an Extra-legal Vehicle or Load on a State Highway 
together with a showing that such operation or movement will not impair the safety of Highway 
users, the efficient movement of traffic, the integrity of the State Highway, or the administration 
and enforcement of the Department's permit program, as determined from the permit application 
information. 
218 
Gross Vehicle Weight (GVW) - The total weight of a Vehicle or combination of Vehicles, including 
any Load. 
219 
Height - The total vertical dimension of any Vehicle above the ground surface, including any Load 
and Load-holding device thereon. 
220 
Height Restriction Map - A map prepared by the Department indicating the structures that have a 
minimum clearance of 16 feet or less. A copy of the map may be obtained from the Department. 
221 
Highway - As defined in §42-1-102 (43) C.R.S. The entire Width between the boundary lines of 
every way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes 
of vehicular travel or the entire Width of every way declared to be a public Highway by any law of 
this state. 
222 
Hours of Darkness - Sunset to sunrise. 
223 
Hours of Daylight - Sunrise to sunset. 
224 
Interstate Highways - As defined in Title 23 USC, Section 103. 
225 
Lane - As defined in §42-1-102 (46), C.R.S. That portion of a roadway used for the movement of 
a single line of Vehicles. 
226 
Legal Limits - The size and weight limits for a Vehicle or Load, as defined in §42-4-502 through 
§42-4-509, C.R.S. 
227 
Length - The total longitudinal dimension of any Vehicle or combination of Vehicles, including any 
Load or Load-holding devices thereon.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
5 
228 
Load - A weight of commodity or equipment resting upon something else regarded as its support. 
229 
Local Authorities - As defined in §42-1-102 (48) C.R.S. Every county, municipal, and other local 
board or body having authority to adopt local police regulations under the constitution and laws of 
this state. 
230 
Longer Vehicle Combination (LVC) - The Vehicle combinations defined in §42-4-505, C.R.S. 
231 
Longer Vehicle Combination (LVC) Permit. The permit granted by the Department authorizing the 
approved carrier company to operate longer vehicle combinations (LVC) under these rules; 
hereinafter referred to as the permit. For the purpose of these rules the longer vehicle 
combination permit will be an annual permit. 
232 
Maximum Limits - The maximum size and weight limits that may be allowed by Transport Permit 
for an Extra-legal Vehicle or Load, as established in the Rules, the Pilot Escort and Oversize 
Restriction Map, the Height Restriction Map and the Bridge Weight Limit Map. 
233 
Manufactured Home. As defined in §24-32-3302 (20) C.R.S. “Manufactured home” means any 
preconstructed building unit or combination of preconstructed building units that include electrical, 
mechanical, or plumbing services that are fabricated, formed, or assembled at a location other 
than the site of the completed home; is designed for residential occupancy in either temporary or 
permanent locations; is constructed in compliance with the federal act, factory-built residential 
requirements, or mobile home standards; does not have motor power; and is not licensed as a 
recreational vehicle. 
234 
Mobile Machinery - As defined in §42-1-102 (54) C.R.S. 
235 
Mountainous Routes - Those routes designated by hash marks on the Pilot Escort and Oversize 
Restriction Map. 
236 
Nondivisible Load or Vehicle - Any Load or Vehicle exceeding applicable statutory size or weight 
limits which, if separated into smaller Loads or Vehicles, would compromise the intended use of 
the Vehicle, for example, Make it unable to perform the function for which it was intended; 
Destroy the value of the Load or Vehicle, i.e., make it unusable for its intended purpose; or 
Require more than 8 workhours to dismantle using appropriate equipment. The Applicant for a 
Nondivisible Load permit has the burden of proof as to the number of workhours required to 
dismantle the Load. 
Pursuant to federal regulations the State may treat emergency response vehicles, casks 
designed for the transport of spent nuclear materials, Bulk Fluid Milk Products, and military 
vehicles transporting marked military equipment or material as nondivisible vehicles or loads. 
237 
Non-Interstate Highways - As defined in §43-2-101 (1) C.R.S as the state highway system, 
except for those defined as the Interstate system in Title 23, U.S.C., Section 103. 
238 
Overhang (also known as Projection) - Any part of a Vehicle’s Load which projects beyond the 
front most point of the grill assembly of the Vehicle engine compartment or beyond the rear most 
fixed point of the transport Vehicle. 
239 
Permittee - An Applicant who has been granted a Transport Permit by the Department.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
6 
240 
Pilot Escort and Oversize Restriction Map - A map prepared by the Department indicating the 
State Highways where Pilot Escort Vehicles are required for the operation or movement of Extra-
legal Vehicles or Loads; the State Highways where oversize restrictions exist; and Mountainous 
Routes. This map defines the maximum Length and Width restrictions authorized by the Rules. A 
copy of this map may be obtained from the Department. 
241 
Pilot Escort Certification Program - The training curriculum authorized by the Department and 
presented by a Third Party Instructor or the Department. 
242 
Pilot Escort Vehicle - A motor Vehicle used for the express purpose as a warning Vehicle for 
Extra-Legal Vehicles or Loads and which meets the requirements of Chapter 5 of these rules. 
243 
Reference Point (RP) - Identifies a physical location on the Highway in relationship to the 
preceding milepost markers. 
244 
Route Survey - A document detailing the specifics of the route, based on the vehicle 
configuration, dimensions, and weight, including but not limited to a detailed list of all overhead 
structure clearances, bridge crossing posted weight limits, highway widths, and maneuverability 
concerns. Route Surveys required due to Vehicle/Load dimensions other than Height shall be 
valid for a period of thirty days unless otherwise determined by the Department. 
245 
Rules - Rules and Regulations Pertaining to Transport Permits for the Operation or Movement of 
Extra-legal Vehicles or Loads, 2 C.C.R. 601-4. 
246 
Saddlemount Combination - A combination of vehicles in which a truck or truck tractor tows one 
or more trucks or truck tractors, each connected by a saddle to the frame or fifth wheel of the 
vehicle in front of it. The saddle is a mechanism that connects the front axle of the towed vehicle 
to the frame or fifth wheel of the vehicle in front and functions like a fifth wheel kingpin 
connection. 
247 
Self-propelled Fixed Load Crane - As stated in 42-4-510 (1)(c) (II), C.R.S., a self-powered mobile 
crane designed with equipment or parts permanently attached to the body of the crane. A self-
propelled fixed load crane includes, without limitation, the crane's shackles, slings, and 
counterweights. Cranes will be allowed to carry counterweights providing the vehicle does not 
exceed the Bridge Weight Limit map limits, and the counterweights are manufactured as part of 
the unit. 
248 
Semi-Trailer - Any wheeled vehicle, without motor power, designed to be used in conjunction with 
a laden or unladen truck tractor so that some part of its own weight and that of its cargo load rests 
upon or is carried by such laden or unladen truck tractor and that is generally and commonly used 
to carry and transport property over the public highways. 
249 
State Highway (SH) - A Highway on the State Highway system, as defined in §43-2-101, C.R.S. 
250 
Transport Permit - A license granted by the Department to move or operate an Extra-legal 
Vehicle or Load on a State Highway. The types of Transport Permits available are those permits 
listed in Chapter 3 of these Rules. 
251 
Third Party Instructor - The entity or person authorized by the Department to conduct the Pilot 
Escort Certification Program and certify students as authorized Colorado Pilot Escort operators. 
252 
Truck - As defined in §42-1-102 (108) C.R.S. Any motor Vehicle equipped with a body designed 
to carry property and which is generally and commonly used to carry and transport property.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
7 
253 
Truck Tractor - Any motor Vehicle which is generally and commonly designed and used to draw a 
semi-trailer and its cargo Load. 
254 
Unladen Expandable Dual-Lane Transport Trailer – An empty trailer capable of being expanded 
or reduced in Width. 
255 
Vehicle - A device, as defined in §42-1-102 (112), C.R.S. which is capable of moving itself, or of 
being moved, from place to place upon wheels or endless tracks. 
256 
Width - The total outside transverse dimension of a Vehicle including the Load or Load-holding 
devices thereon and approved safety devices and tire bulge due to the Load, with the exception 
of rear view mirrors, clearance lights, or other accessories required by federal, state, or local laws 
or regulations. 
CHAPTER 3 
TRANSPORT PERMITS AND APPLICATION INFORMATION 
300 
The following Permits are available: 
300.1 
Single Trip Permit: A permit that is valid for a single move not to exceed a maximum of 
five days, as determined by the Department, over designated State Highways for an 
Extra-legal Vehicle or Load. 
300.2 
Special Permit: A permit that is valid for only a single one-way trip over designated State 
Highways for an Extra-legal Vehicle or Load that exceeds the Maximum Limits. All 
special permits are subject to the provisions of Chapter 6 of the Rules. 
300.3 
Annual Permit: A permit that is valid for one year from the date of issuance on all State 
Highways for an Extra-legal Vehicle or Load that does not exceed the Maximum Limits. 
300.4 
Annual Non-Interstate Permit: A permit that is valid for one year from the date of issuance 
on all non-Interstate Highways for an Extra-legal Vehicle or Load that does not exceed 
the legal size limits or the maximum weight limits per §42-4-510 (1) (b) (II) and the Bridge 
Weight Limit map. 
300.5 
Annual Fleet Permit: Overlength – A permit that is valid for one year from the date of 
issuance on State Highways but only as authorized by §42-4-510 (11) (a) (II), C.R.S., for 
overlength public utility Vehicles. Vehicles and/or Loads shall not exceed the Maximum 
Limits for Length as designated on the Pilot Escort and Oversize Restriction Map, and the 
Rules. 
300.6 
Annual Fleet Permit: Overweight (LVC) Divisible – A permit that is valid for one year from 
the date of issuance for LVCs only, as authorized by §42-4-510 (11) (a) (III) (C), C.R.S. 
300.7 
Company Fleet Permit: A permit that is valid for one year from the date of issuance on 
State Highways but only as authorized by §42-4-510 (1.5), (2) and (11) (a) (V), C.R.S., 
for Applicants with two or more Vehicles. Vehicles and/or Loads shall not exceed the 
Maximum Limits for Annual Permits as set forth in Chapter 3 of the Rules. 
300.8 
Non-Interstate Fleet Permit: A permit that is valid for one year from the date of issuance 
for the use of Non-Interstate Highways as authorized in §42-4-510 (11) (a) (VI)(C) and 
(VII)(D), C.R.S.. Vehicles and/or Loads shall not exceed the Maximum Limits for Annual 
Non-Interstate Permits as set forth in Chapter 3 of the Rules.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
8 
300.9 
LVC Overweight Vehicle Transport Permit: A permit issued to a Longer Vehicle 
Combination, in possession of a Longer Vehicle Permit, which indicates the route of 
travel, to haul in excess of legal weight on the designated route with a Divisible Load. 
300.10 Super Load: A sub-permit of a Chapter 6 Special for Vehicles and/or Loads as referenced 
in § 42-4-510 (1.7) (a) (I) and (II). 
300.11 6-Month Non-Interstate Divisible Load Permit: A permit that is valid for six months from 
the date of issuance on all Non-Interstate Highways for a power unit and a trailer that has 
two or three axles that does not exceed the legal size limits or the maximum weight limits 
per § 42-4-510(1)(b)(II) (B), C.R.S., and the Bridge Weight Limit Map. This permit is valid 
for Divisible Loads (weight only). 
301 
Application Information. 
The Applicant must submit a completed application to obtain a Transport Permit in the manner prescribed 
by the Dept. Applications shall be submitted in person, by electronic means or by mail. Applications are 
not accepted over the telephone. 
302 
When an Extra-legal Vehicle or Load is operating under any permit, an electronically transmitted 
copy of a Transport Permit shall be acceptable. 
303 
The Applicant must include the following information and documentation as part of the 
application: 
303.1 
Applicant name, address and phone number. 
303.2 
Type of permit requested. 
303.3 
Method of payment. 
303.4 
Make, model and the entire Vehicle Identification Number of the power unit to be 
permitted. 
303.5 
Start date for the Permit. 
303.6 
Maximum total weight of Extra-legal Vehicle or Load. 
303 7 
Distribution of axle weights with axle spacing if applying for overweight permit. 
303.8 
Maximum number of Axles of the complete unit. 
303.9 
Maximum Height of Extra-legal Vehicle or Load. 
303.10 Maximum Width of Extra-legal Vehicle or Load. 
303.11 Maximum Length of Extra-legal Vehicle or Load. 
303.12 Maximum front and/or rear Overhang of Extra-legal Vehicle or Load. 
303.13 Detail of shipment/cargo/load. 
303.14 Start and End point as origin and destination within Colorado.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
9 
303.15 Preferred Route(s) of Travel listed by highway numbers for all single trip permits and 
Chapter 6 Special permits. 
303.16 Route Survey for all Vehicles or Loads that exceed 17’ 6” in height. 
303.17 Route Survey for all Vehicles or Loads that exceed 130’ in Length. 
303.18 USDOT number 
303.19 The Applicant’s signature on the paper application or by electronic means when using the 
online application system. 
304 
ANNUAL PERMITS 
304.1 
Maximum Limits for Annual Permits - If an Extra-legal Vehicle or Load exceeds the 
Maximum Limits the Applicant must obtain a Chapter 6 Special permit. Chapter 6 Special 
permits will not be issued to Vehicles or Loads that are defined as a divisible Vehicle or 
Load. 
304.2 
The Maximum Limits that may be authorized for an Extra-legal Vehicle or Load operating 
under an Annual Oversize/Overweight permit are as follows: 
304.2.1 Sixteen feet in Height, subject to the Maximum Limits for Height designated on 
the Height Restriction Map. 
304.2.2 Two hundred thousand pounds Gross Vehicle Weight, subject to the Maximum 
Limits for Axle weight designated on the Bridge Weight Limit Map. 
304.2.3 Seventeen feet in Width, subject to the Maximum Limit for Width designated on 
the Pilot Escort and Oversize Restriction Map. 
304.2.4 One hundred thirty feet in Length for all four-lane Highways. 
304.2.5 One hundred twenty feet in Length for all non-Mountainous, two-lane Highways. 
304.2.6 One hundred ten feet in Length for all Mountainous two-lane Highways. 
304.2.7 Thirty-five foot rear Overhang. 
304.2.8 Twenty-five foot front Overhang. 
305 
QUAD AXLE ANNUAL OVERWEIGHT PERMIT FOR DIVISIBLE VEHICLES OR LOADS 
The Maximum Limits that may be authorized for an Extra-legal Vehicle or load operating under a Quad 
Axle Annual Overweight Permit for Divisible Vehicles or Loads are as follows: 
305.1 
Not to exceed fourteen feet six inches in Height, operating on a Highway, designated by 
the Colorado Department of Transportation. 
305.2 
One hundred ten thousand pounds Gross Vehicle Weight, subject to the Maximum Limits 
for Axle weight designated on the Bridge Weight Limit Map. Vehicle must Be Configured 
with a Quad Axle grouping. 
305.3 
Eight feet, six inches in Width.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
10 
305.4 
Length 
305.4.1 Tractor/Trailer Combination – Seventy feet in Length for all Highways. There is 
No Length limit when trailer is fifty-seven feet four inches or less in Length when 
utilized as a tractor/trailer combination. 
305.4.2 Truck/Trailer Combination – Truck shall not exceed forty-five feet in Length. The 
overall Truck/trailer combination shall not exceed seventy feet in Length. 
305.4.3 Single vehicle shall not exceed forty-five feet in Length. 
305.5 
Legal front and rear Overhangs not exceeding four feet in front and ten feet in rear. 
306 
TWO/THREE AXLE TRAILER ANNUAL OR 6-MONTH OVERWEIGHT PERMIT FOR DIVISIBLE 
VEHICLES OR LOADS 
The Maximum Limits that may be authorized for an Extra-legal Vehicle or load operating under a 
Two/Three Axle trailer Annual or 6-Month Overweight Permit for Divisible Vehicles or Loads are as 
follows: 
306.1 
Not to exceed fourteen feet six inches in Height, operating on a Highway, designated by 
the Colorado Department of Transportation. 
306.2 
Ninety-seven thousand pounds Gross Vehicle Weight, subject to the Maximum Limits for 
Axle weight designated on the Bridge Weight Limit Map. Vehicle configuration must 
consist of a power unit and a Trailer Configured with at least two but not more than three 
Axles on the Trailer. 
306.3 
Eight feet, six inches in Width. 
306.4 
Length 
306.4.1 Tractor/Trailer Combination – Seventy feet in Length for all Highways. There is 
No Length limit when trailer is fifty-seven feet four inches or less in Length when 
utilized as a tractor/trailer combination. 
306.4.2 Truck/Trailer Combination – Truck shall not exceed forty-five feet in Length. The 
overall Truck/trailer combination shall not exceed seventy feet in Length. 
306.4.3 A Semi-Trailer used with a converter dolly shall be considered a trailer. 
306.5 
Legal front and rear Overhangs not exceeding four feet in front and ten feet in rear. 
307 
ANNUAL FLEET PERMITS FOR OVERLENGTH PUBLIC UTILITY VEHICLES OR LOADS 
The Maximum Limits for operating under an Annual Fleet Permit for OverLength Public Utility Vehicles or 
Loads shall not exceed the following: 
307.1 
One hundred thirty feet in Length for all four-lane Highways. 
307.2 
One hundred twenty feet in Length for all non-Mountainous, two-lane Highways. 
307.3 
One hundred ten feet in Length for all Mountainous, two-lane Highways.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
11 
308 
ANNUAL FLEET PERMITS FOR OVERWEIGHT LVCS 
The Maximum Limits for weight shall not exceed the legal Axle weight limits and the Gross Vehicle 
Weight limits as described in Chapter 4 of the Rules. 
309 
Document Knowledge and Compliance Requirement. 
309.1 
A Permittee who has been issued an Annual Permit must: 
309.1 
Have the original Transport Permit or legible copy of the same in the permitted Vehicle, 
or have access to the Permit electronically, when operating or moving on and Highway in 
accordance with § 42-4-510(4), C.R.S. 
309.2 
Be knowledgeable of, and comply with these Rules. 
309.3 
Route the Vehicle to comply with these Rules, the Bridge Weight Limit Map, the Pilot 
Escort and Oversize Restriction Map, the Height Restriction Map and all Highway 
restrictions. This information is available on both the CDOT Commercial Vehicle Permits 
Webpage or on the Motor Carriers’ dashboard of the CDOT permitting system by clicking 
on the Annual Permit Route link. 
310 
Permit Fees are established in §42-4-510 (11), C.R.S. 
311 
Company Fleet fees established in §42-4-510 (11), C.R.S. may be collected as follows: 
311.1 
A credit shall be granted for any unused portion of an Annual Permit on an individual 
Vehicle when it is being added to a Company Fleet Permit. The credit shall be calculated 
by the Department on a quarterly basis and shall not exceed the total base cost of the 
Company Fleet Permit. 
311.2 
For new Vehicles added to a Company Fleet Permit during the course of the permit term, 
the fee of three hundred dollars ($300.00) shall be prorated calculated on a quarterly 
basis for the remainder of the effective period of the Company Fleet Permit. 
CHAPTER 4 
TRANSPORT PERMIT OPERATING REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS 
400 
EXEMPTIONS TO HOURS OF RESTRICTION: 
The following Vehicles and/or Loads although still subject to permit requirements are not subject to the 
hours of restriction: 
400.1 
Overweight Vehicles, not in excess of 110,000 pounds Gross Vehicle Weight, not in 
excess of any other legal limit and capable of maintaining a minimum speed of 40 mph 
on a flat grade, 30 mph on a grade or the minimum posted speed limit (if lower), or 
400.2 
Vehicles and or Loads responding to Emergencies as defined in 214 of the Rules. 
401 
Regional Hours of Restrictions 
401.1 
DENVER AREA CURFEWS 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load is prohibited from travel, at the following times, unless authorized 
under a Chapter 6 Special or Super Load Transport Permit in the Denver Area, during the hours 
of 6:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, on the following 
segments:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
12 
401.1.1 I-25 between I-225 (Exit 200, RP 200.1) and SH 128 (120th Avenue, Exit 223) 
401.1.2 I-70 between SH 72 (Ward Road) (Exit 266, RP 265) and I-225 (Exit 282, RP 
282.6) 
401.1.3 I-76 between I-25 (Exit 5, RP 5.8) and I-70 (Exit 0, RP 0) 
401.1.4 I-76 between I-25 (Exit 5, RP 5.8) and U.S. 85 (Exit 12 RP 12.0) 
401.1.5 SH 88 (Federal Blvd.) between Belleview Avenue (RP 7.9) and Colfax Avenue 
(RP 0) 
401.1.6 SH 287 (Federal Blvd.) between Colfax Avenue (RP 282.7) and SH 128 (120th 
Avenue) (RP 294.8) 
401.1.7 SH 95 (Sheridan Blvd.) between U.S. 285 (Hampden Avenue) (RP 0) and U.S. 
36 (RP 14.3) 
401.1.8 SH 391 (Kipling St.) between U.S. 285 (RP 0) and I-70 (RP 9.4) 
401.1.9 SH 6 (6th Avenue) between I-25 (RP 284.5) and Indiana Street (RP 276.3) 
401.1.10 
SH 121 (Wadsworth Blvd.) between SH 470 (RP 0) and 80th Avenue 
(RP 20.7) 
401.1.11 
U.S. 36 between I-25 (RP 57) and SH 121 (Wadsworth Blvd.) (RP 48) 
401.1.12 
U.S. 285 (Hampden Avenue) between I-25 (RP 263.9) and SH 121 
(Wadsworth Blvd.) (RP 255) 
401.1.13 
I-225 between I-25 (Exit 1A, RP 0) and I-70 (Exit 12B, RP 12.0) 
401.1.14 
I-270 between I-70 (Exit 5, RP 4.9) and I-25 (Exit 0, RP 0) 
401.2 
COLORADO SPRINGS 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load is prohibited from travel, at the following times, unless authorized 
under a Chapter 6 Special or Super Load Transport Permit in Colorado Springs, during the hours 
of 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. 
401.2.1 I-25 between Academy Blvd. North (Exit 150A) and Academy Blvd. South (Exit 
135) 
401.2.2 I-25 between Monument (Exit 161, RP 160.8) and Academy Blvd South (Exit 
135, RP 135.2) 
401.2.3 SH 83 between Interquest Pkwy (RP 20.3) and Shoup Road (RP 21.2) 
401.2.4 U.S. 24 between Exit 296 (Manitou Springs) (RP 297) and I-25 (RP 303) and I-25 
(RP 303.4) and Meridian Blvd. (RP 320.3) 
401.2.5 SH 94 between SH 24 (RP 0.5) and Enoch Road (RP 9.1) 
401.2.6 SH 115 between Cherokee Dr (RP 39.7) and I-25 (RP 47.5)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
13 
401.2.7 SH21 between Mesa Ridge (RP 131.8) and U.S. 24 (RP 139.5) and Jct U.S. 24 
(RP 141.7) and SH 83 (RP 154.1) 
401.3 
PUEBLO AREA: 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load is prohibited from travel, at the following times, unless authorized 
under a Chapter 6 Special or Super Load Transport Permit in the Pueblo area, during the hours 
of 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. 
401.3.1 I-25 between Lake Avenue (Exit 94, RP 94.8) and Eagleridge Blvd. (Exit 102, RP 
102.2) 
401.3.2 SH 47 between Jerry Murphy Road (RP .8) and I-25 (RP 0) 
401.3.3 SH 50 between I–25 (RP 314.5) and Pueblo Blvd. (RP 312.1) 
401.3.4 SH 50 Business Loop between Northern Avenue (RP 2.0) to Aspen Street (RP 
2.9) 
401.4 
ASPEN - CARBONDALE AREA: An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load is prohibited from travel, 
at the following times, unless authorized under a Chapter 6 Special Transport Permit on 
SH 82 between Carbondale (RP 11.7) and Aspen (RP 42), during the hours of 7:00 a.m. 
to 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. 
401.5 
CENTRAL CITY: An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load can only travel between the hours of 
3:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. in the Central City area. 
401.5.1 SH 6 between SH 58 (RP 271.6) and I-70 at Floyd Hill (RP 275.7) 
401.5.2 SH 119 between SH 6 (RP 0) to SH 72 (RP 22.7) 
401.5.3 SH 46 between SH 119 (RP 0) and Gilpin/Jefferson County Line (RP 6.6) “at the 
Golden Gate Canyon” 
401.6 
CLEAR CREEK CANYON: An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load is prohibited from travel in 
Clear Creek Canyon during all times of the day on U.S. 6 between SH 58 (RP 271.6) and 
SH 119, unless authorized under a Chapter 6 Special or Super Load Transport Permit. 
402 
I-70 CORRIDOR SEASONAL RESTRICTIONS 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load is prohibited from travel, at the following times, unless authorized under a 
Chapter 6 Special or Super Load Transport Permit on I-70 West Corridor defined as I-70 between the 
Morrison Exit (Exit 259, RP 258.7) and the West Vail Exit (Exit 173, RP 173.3), or any segment thereof. 
402.1 
WINTER RESTRICTIONS FROM December 1 through March 31:402.1.1 Westbound 
Travel Prohibited between 3:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. on Fridays, and between 7:00 a.m. 
and 12:00 p.m. noon on Saturdays and Sundays. 
402.1.2 Eastbound Travel Prohibited between 3:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m. on Saturdays and 
Sundays.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
14 
402.2 
SUMMER RESTRICTIONS FROM May 15 through September 15: 
402.2.1 Westbound Travel Prohibited beginning at 4:00 p.m. at the Morrison Exit (Exit 
259, RP 258.7) and beginning at 5:00 p.m. at the East Idaho Springs Exit (Exit 
241) until 8:00 p.m. on Fridays, and between 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. noon on 
Saturdays. 
402.2.2 Eastbound Travel Prohibited between 3:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m. on Sundays. 
403 
EISENHOWER-JOHNSON MEMORIAL TUNNELS RESTRICTIONS 
Each Extra-legal Vehicle or Load traveling on I-70 at mileposts 213 - 214 through the Eisenhower-
Johnson Memorial Tunnels (the tunnels) must meet the requirements of 2 CCR 601-8 and the following: 
403.1 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load which is more than eleven feet in Width must stop at the 
tunnel approach parking lot and obtain permission from the tunnel superintendent or the 
portal attendant to travel through the tunnels. 
403.2 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load greater than thirteen feet eleven inches in Height is 
prohibited from travel through the tunnels. 
403.3 
During periods of construction one bore of the tunnel may be operated in a two-way 
traffic or bi-directional mode. During those periods, travel by Vehicles or Loads exceeding 
8 feet 6 inches in Width will be prohibited in both directions through the affected bore. 
Extra-legal Vehicles or Loads arriving at the tunnel during these periods will be detained 
by tunnel personnel until the two-way traffic operation is discontinued. 
404 
HOLIDAYS: 
404.1 
An LVC is prohibited from travel at any time on Memorial Day, Independence Day, and 
Labor Day. If Independence Day falls on a Saturday an LVC is also prohibited from travel 
on the previous Friday, and if such holiday falls on a Sunday an LVC is also prohibited 
from travel on the following Monday. 
404.2 
An LVC may travel on New Year's Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day. However, 
if such holiday falls on a Saturday an LVC is prohibited from travel on the previous 
Friday, and if such holiday falls on a Sunday an LVC is prohibited from travel on the 
following Monday. 
404.3 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load, other than an LVC, is prohibited from travel between the 
hours of 6:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. on Memorial Day, Independence Day, and Labor Day. 
When Independence Day falls on a Saturday an Extra-legal Vehicle or Load is also 
prohibited from travel on the previous Friday between 12:00 p.m. (noon) and 9:00 p.m., 
and when Independence Day falls on a Sunday an Extra-legal Vehicle or Load is also 
prohibited from travel on the following Monday between 12:00 p.m. (noon) and 9:00 p.m. 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load is prohibited from travel between the hours of 12:00 p.m. 
(noon) and 9:00 p.m. on the Friday preceding Memorial Day and Labor Day. 
404.4 
In the Cripple Creek area an Extra-Legal Vehicle or Load is also prohibited from travel on 
Friday, Saturday and Sunday for Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, 
Christmas Day and New Year's Day during the hours of 3:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. on the 
following Highways: 
404.4.1 S.H. 24 between S.H. 67 at Divide (RP 278) and Woodland Park (RP 303)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
15 
404.4.2 SH 67 between SH 24 at Divide (RP 70) and Cripple Creek (RP 51.7). 
405 
HAZARDS: An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load is prohibited from travel when: 
405.1 
The Department, State Patrol, or other peace officer determines and provides public 
notice by any available means that a hazardous road condition exists for an Extra-legal 
Vehicle or Load; or 
405.2 
The Permittee knows that a hazardous road condition exists for an Extra-legal Vehicle or 
Load. Hazardous road conditions may include water, ice, snow, mud, wind, or rocks on 
the Highway; or debris from an accident, natural disaster, or an Emergency on the 
Highway. 
405.3 
If a hazardous road condition exists on the route to be traveled, the Permittee, with the 
exception of Annual Permit holders shall comply with the following procedure to 
determine if an alternate route is available: 
405.3.1 The Permittee shall contact the nearest Port of Entry, State Patrol, or Department 
office. 
405.3.2 The Department must be contacted to determine if an alternate route is available. 
405.3.3 If the Department determines that an alternate route is available, the permit must 
be changed by Port of Entry, State Patrol, or Department personnel to allow 
travel on the alternate route. 
405.3.4 If the Department cannot be contacted or if the Department determines that an 
alternate route is not available, then no changes shall be made to the permit and 
the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load shall not travel until the hazardous road condition 
ceases to exist. 
405.4 
When considering restricting travel during inclement weather drivers will consider road 
conditions, weather conditions, driving conditions and the overall safety of all motorists on 
the road. Specifically, drivers must consider at minimum the following factors when 
making the decision to travel: 
405.4.1 Road Conditions - Including but not limited to water, ice, snow, grade, shoulder 
availability, actual lane widths under adverse conditions ; and 
405.4.2 Driving Conditions - Including but not limited to vehicle volume, a minimum of 
1,000 feet visibility, construction restrictions; and 
405.4.3 Weather Conditions - Including but not limited to rain, sleet, fog, hail, snow, wind, 
mud, ice, visibility of less than 1,000 feet. 
405.5 
Vehicles operating under a Chapter 6 Special will be considered on a case-by-case basis 
to proceed when hazardous conditions exist. 
405.6 
Vehicles that are overweight only may chain up and continue movement when chain law 
is in effect; and may operate like all other commercial vehicles and proceed as conditions 
allow providing the vehicle and/or load does not exceed 200,000 pounds gross weight.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
16 
405.7 
SIGNAGE: An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load shall display signs to indicate “Wide Load” or 
“Wide”, “Long Load” or “Long” , or “Oversize Load” or “Oversize” , , as applicable, which 
shall be visible to approaching traffic from the front and the rear, except as provided in 
Chapter 7. All such signs shall either be five feet wide, ten inches high with one inch wide 
brush stroke, black letters a minimum of eight inches high on yellow background, or shall 
be seven feet wide, eighteen inches high, with a 1.41 inch brush stroke, black letters a 
minimum of ten inches high on yellow background. This section 405.7 does not apply to 
Longer Vehicle Combinations or to Vehicles that are overweight only. 
405.8 
CONVOYING: A minimum distance of one-half mile shall be maintained at all times 
between Extra-legal Vehicles or Loads, except when passing, stopping at the Port of 
Entry, truck stops, rest areas, whenever not traveling on a designated state highway or 
when otherwise authorized under a Chapter 6 Special permit. One Extra-legal Vehicle or 
Load may pass another Extra-legal Vehicle or Load only under the following conditions: 
There must be no other traffic in the immediate vicinity on the State Highway and the 
Vehicles or Loads involved must communicate by radio concerning the pass prior to 
making the passing maneuver. 
406 
MANUFACTURED HOME: 
A Load consisting of a modular or Manufactured home with an open side(s) is prohibited from travel 
unless it is fully enclosed with paneling. The paneling shall consist of 0.5 mil plastic sheathing or stronger, 
backed by a grill work not more than a square four feet by four feet or if the open side is wrapped in 
reinforced polyethylene, grill work is not necessary. Any ready-made poly tarps and/or poly tarp rolls are 
not permissible. 
407 
WEIGHT: 
407.1 
A Non-Interstate Divisible Extra-legal Vehicle or Load is prohibited from travel on the 
interstate highway system. 
407.2 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load with Axle configurations which exceed the Maximum 
Limits for Axle weight for certain State Highways, as described on the Bridge Weight 
Limit Map, is prohibited from travel on such Highways unless authorized under either a 
Chapter 6 Special permit or as provided in Chapter 8 of the Rules. 
407.3 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load that weighs more than two hundred thousand pounds 
Gross Vehicle Weight and all Chapter 8 Special Mobile Machinery must: 
407.3.1 Not exceed ten miles per hour on those bridge specifically restricted by the 
Department and listed on the Transport Permit. 
407.3.2 Travel in the center of the driving Lane when crossing bridges; and 
407.3.3 If required to slow to ten miles per hours on any bridge along the approved route, 
attached to the rear of the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load an Oversize Load Sign 
reading as follows: “CAUTION: THIS VEHICLE MAY SLOW TO 10 MPH TO 
CROSS BRIDGES”.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
17 
408 
WIDTH: 
408.1 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load which is thirteen feet or more in Width shall travel only in 
the farthest right-hand Lane available to traffic and shall travel as close as practicable to 
the right-hand curb or painted shoulder line, except when passing another Vehicle or 
preparing for a left turn. 
408.2 
TRAVELING DURING HOURS OF DAYLIGHT: An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load traveling 
during hours of daylight shall comply with the following requirements, as designated on 
the Pilot Escort and Oversize Restriction Map. 
408.2.1 On a State Highway designated in red an Extra-legal Vehicle or Load that 
exceeds 8 feet 6 inches in Width requires a Chapter 6 Special permit. 
408.2.2 On a State Highway designed in blue: 
408.2.2.1 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load that exceeds 8 feet 6 inches but 
does not exceed 11 feet in Width requires one Pilot Escort Vehicle in the 
front. 
408.2.2.2 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load that exceeds 11 feet but does not 
exceed 13 feet in Width requires one Pilot Escort Vehicle in the front and 
one Pilot Escort Vehicle in the rear. 
408.2.2.3 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load that exceeds 13 feet in Width 
requires a Chapter 6 Special permit. 
408.2.3 On a State Highway designed in yellow: 
408.2.3.1 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load that exceeds 11 feet but does not 
exceed 13 feet in Width requires one Pilot Escort Vehicle in the front. 
408.2.3.2 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load that exceeds 13 feet but does not 
exceed 15 feet in Width requires one Pilot Escort Vehicle in the front and 
either one Pilot Escort Vehicle or one Flashing Yellow Light in the rear. 
408.2.3.3 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load that exceeds 15 feet in Width 
requires a Chapter 6 Special permit. 
408.2.4 On a State Highway designated in green: 
408.2.4.1 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load that exceeds 13 feet but does not 
exceed 15 feet in Width requires one Pilot Escort Vehicle in the front on 
a two-lane Highway. 
408.2.4.2 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load that exceeds 13 feet but does not 
exceed 15 feet in Width requires either one Pilot Escort Vehicle or one 
Flashing Yellow Light in the rear on the four-lane Highway. 
408.2.4.3 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load that exceed 15 feet but does not 
exceed 17 feet in Width requires one Pilot Escort Vehicle in the front and 
either one Pilot Escort Vehicle or one Flashing Yellow Light in the rear on 
a two-lane Highway.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
18 
408.2.4.4 
An Extra-legal Vehicles or Load that exceeds 15 feet but does 
not exceed 17 feet in Width requires either one Pilot Escort Vehicle or 
one Flashing Yellow Light in the rear on a four-lane Highway. 
408.2.4.5 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load that exceeds 17 feet in Width 
requires a Chapter 6 Special permit. 
408.2.5 On a State Highway designed in white: 
408.2.5.1 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load that exceeds 15 feet but does not 
exceed 17 feet in Width requires either one Pilot Escort Vehicle or one 
Flashing Yellow Light in the rear. 
408.2.5.2 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load that exceeds 17 feet in Width 
requires a Chapter 6 Special permit. 
408.3 
TRAVELING DURING HOURS OF DARKNESS: An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load 
operating or moving during the Hours of Darkness shall comply with All lighting required 
by §42-4-204 through §42-4-235, C.R.S., and the Commercial Vehicle Rules, as 
applicable, and the following requirements: 
408.3.1 An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load that exceeds legal Width but does not exceed 
twelve feet in Width: 
• 
A Flashing Yellow Light shall be mounted to the front of the Vehicle. 
• 
At least two but not more than three Flashing Yellow Lights shall be mounted to 
the extreme rear. 
408.3.2 In addition to meeting the requirements set forth in 408.3.1, an Extra-legal 
Vehicle or Load that exceeds twelve feet in Width but does not exceed fourteen 
feet in Width: 
• 
On all two-lane Highways, one Pilot Escort Vehicle shall be in the front. 
• 
On all four-lane Highways, one Pilot Escort Vehicle shall be in the rear. 
408.3.3 An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load more than fourteen feet in Width is prohibited 
from travel during Hours of Darkness, unless authorized under a Chapter 6 
Special permit. 
408.3.4 An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load that exceeds the Legal Limits for Length or has an 
Overhang: 
408.3.4.1 
A Flashing Yellow Light shall be mounted to the front of the 
Vehicle. 
408.3.4.2 
The Permittee shall attach at least one but not more than three 
yellow or red Cluster Lights to any Overhang, as follows: 
408.3.4.3 
If the Overhang is in the rear, red Cluster Lights shall be used. 
408.3.4.4 
If the Overhang is in the front, yellow Cluster Lights shall be 
used.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
19 
409 
HEIGHT 
409.1 
The Permittee is responsible to check all overhead structures and utilities on the route to 
be traveled to ensure that the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load has adequate clearance of all 
overheight restrictions. 
409.2 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load more than sixteen feet in Height is prohibited from travel 
unless a Pilot Escort Vehicle is positioned in front with a height pole. 
409.3 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load that exceeds 17 feet 6 inches in Height must submit a 
route survey for the route of travel. 
409.4 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load more than 17 feet in Height must be accompanied by a 
licensed signal contractor through all intersections controlled by an overhead traffic 
signal. 
410 
LENGTH 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load which exceeds the following Maximum Limits for Length must use a Pilot 
Escort Vehicle: 
410.1 
More than eighty-five feet when traveling on Mountainous two-lane Highways, the Pilot 
Escort Vehicle must be positioned one in the front. 
410.2 
More than one hundred ten feet when traveling on all non-Mountainous two-lane 
Highways, the Pilot Escort Vehicle must be positioned in the front. 
410.3 
More than one hundred fifteen feet traveling on four-lane Highways, the Pilot Escort 
Vehicle must be positioned in the rear. 
411 
OVERHANG 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load which has an Overhang that exceeds the following limitations must use a 
Pilot Escort Vehicle. The Pilot Escort Vehicle shall be positioned according to the Overhang, as follows: 
411.1 
If the Overhang is more than 15 feet in the front, the Pilot Escort Vehicle shall travel in 
the front. 
411.2 
If the Overhang is more than 25 feet in the rear, the Pilot Escort Vehicle shall travel in the 
rear. 
412 
Pursuant to § 42-4-508 (1) (c), C.R.S., and to the grandfather authority of 23 United States Code 
Section 127, a Longer Vehicle Combination or other Vehicle combination of Vehicles may exceed 
80,000 pounds Gross Vehicle Weight on an interstate Highway, subject to the following: 
412.1 
The maximum GVW of any such LVC shall not exceed the weight determined by the 
formula W=800 (L+40) where “W” equals the gross weight in pounds and “L” equals the 
Length in feet between the centers of the first and last Axles, or the weight determined by 
the formula W=500 (LN/N-1 + 12N + 36)*, or 110,000 pounds, whichever is least. 
412.2 
The maximum GVW of any other Vehicle or combination of Vehicles shall not exceed the 
weight determined by the formula of W=800(L+40), or the weight determined by the 
formula of W=500 (LN/N-1 +12N + 36)*, or 85,000 pounds, whichever is least.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
20 
*W = Overall gross weight on any group of two or more consecutive Axles to the nearest 
five hundred pounds. 
*L = Distance in feet between the extreme of any group of two or more consecutive 
Axles. 
*N = Number of Axles in the group under consideration. 
CHAPTER 5 
PILOT ESCORT CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS 
500 
Pilot Escort Driver Requirements 
500.1 
Pilot Escort drivers must comply with all applicable traffic laws (contained in §42-4-101 to 
§42-4-1717, C.R.S.) and with the requirements of these Rules when escorting a Vehicle 
or Load on a State Highway, in order to protect the safety of Highway users and to 
protect the efficient movement of traffic from unreasonable interference. 
500.2 
Pilot Escort drivers must obtain and maintain certification as provided in this chapter to be 
authorized to escort an Extra-legal Vehicle or Load on a State Highway. The Permit 
holder of the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load shall be responsible to inspect a Pilot Escort 
driver’s certification to ensure that it is valid and current. 
500.3 
The Department or its authorized agent will grant a certificate to all persons who pass the 
Pilot Escort Vehicle certification examination and satisfy the other requirements of 
Section 500.4. The certification shall be exclusive to the Pilot Escort driver named in the 
certificate and may not be assigned or transferred. 
500.4 
Pilot Escort driver applicants must meet the following requirements to attend a Pilot 
Escort Certification Program: 
500.4.1 Must be a minimum of 18 years of age. 
500.4.2 Possess a valid driver’s license for the state jurisdiction in which he/she resides. 
500.4.3 Possess current certificate(s) of insurance or endorsement(s) which indicates 
that the operator, or the operator’s employer, has in full force and effect 
insurance coverage(s) for bodily injury and/or property damage as a result of the 
operation of the escort vehicle, the escort vehicle operator, or both causing the 
bodily injury and/or property damage arising out of an act or omission by the Pilot 
Escort Vehicle operator of the escort duties required by the Rules. Such 
insurance(s) or endorsement(s) shall be no less than $1,000,000 Combined 
Single Limit and/or $1,000,000 per occurrence of commercial liability coverage, 
as applicable, and must be maintained at all times during the term of the 
certification. The insurance certificate must indicate on the face of the document 
that the policy is for the operation of Pilot Escort Vehicle(s) and pilot escort 
duties/responsibilities as required by these Rules. 
500.5 
Pilot Escort drivers must provide a current (within 30 days) Motor Vehicle Record (MVR) 
in the state of current residence, for the immediate previous five year period, to the Pilot 
Escort Certification Program at the time of the course. For this immediate previous five 
year period, the driving records must be clear of any conviction for drug or alcohol related 
offenses and not contain a single moving violation penalty assessment of six (6) points or 
more.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
21 
500.6 
Pilot Escort drivers will be issued a certification card by an authorized Pilot Escort 
Certification Program and shall have it in their possession at all times while in pilot escort 
operations. 
500.7 
Initial certification will be valid for four years from the date of issue. One additional four-
year certification may be obtained through a mail in or on-line recertification process 
provided by an authorized Pilot Escort Certification Program. It will be the responsibility of 
the driver to maintain certification. 
500.8 
Operators must notify the Department in writing within 30 days of any change of address 
or name. 
500.9 
All Pilot Escort drivers must be knowledgeable of, and comply with, these Rules and 
escort the permitted Vehicle in such a manner that complies with these Rules, the Bridge 
Weight Limit Map, the Pilot Escort and Oversize Restriction Map, the Height Restriction 
Map, the Hazardous and Nuclear materials map and all other Highway restrictions. This 
information is available, and may be printed if the Pilot Escort driver so desires, on both 
the CDOT Commercial Vehicle Permits Webpage or on the Motor Carriers’ dashboard of 
the CDOT permitting system by clicking on the Annual Permit Route link. The Pilot Escort 
driver must have the following documents, or access to the documents electronically, in 
the Pilot Escort Vehicle when piloting permitted vehicles on the Colorado Highways: 
500.09.1 
Their valid certification card; 
500.09.2 
Proof of insurance as required in 500.4.3; 
500.09.3 
The original Transport Permit or legible copy of the same in accordance 
with § 42-4-510(4), C.R.S. 
501 
Residency and Reciprocity 
501.1 
Pilot Escort drivers operating pilot escort vehicles in Colorado may participate in the 
Colorado certification program authorized by the Department and complete the 
requirements for Colorado certification or they may operate as a certified pilot escort 
driver with another State's certification credential, provided the state has signed a 
reciprocity agreement with Colorado as outlined in paragraph 501.2 below. 
501.2 
The Department may enter into a reciprocal agreement with other states that 
demonstrate that course materials are comprehensive and meet minimum requirements 
outlined by the “Best Practices Guidelines” published by the US DOT Federal Highway 
Administration, publication FHWA-HOP-04-028. A list of reciprocal states may be 
obtained from the Department’s website at 
www.coloradodot.info/business/permits/truckpermits or by calling the Permit Office at 
(303) 757-9539. 
502 
Pilot Escort Vehicle Standards 
502.1 
The Pilot Escort driver shall ensure that the Pilot Escort Vehicle is in safe operating 
condition at all times when the Pilot Escort Vehicle is escorting an Extra-legal Vehicle or 
Load. 
502.2 
The Pilot Escort Vehicle shall: 
502.2.1 Be either a passenger vehicle or a two-Axle Truck;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
22 
502.2.2 Not exceed a maximum Gross Vehicle Weight of 16,000 pounds; 
502.2.3 Be at least 60 inches wide; and 
502.2.4 Properly registered and licensed. 
502.3 
Not exceed the Legal Limits of size and weight, as defined in Section 226 of the Rules. 
502.4 
Equipment and load shall not reduce visibility or mobility of pilot escort vehicle while in 
operation. 
502.5 
Pilot Escort drivers shall not tow trailers at any time while in Pilot Escort operations. 
502.6 
Pilot escort vehicles shall be equipped with a two-way radio capable of transmitting and 
receiving voice messages over a minimum distance of one-half mile. Radio 
communications must be compatible with all accompanying pilot escort vehicles, utility 
company vehicles, and permitted vehicle operator as applicable. 
502.7 
The Pilot Escort driver shall not carry any item(s) or equipment or Load in or on the Pilot 
Escort Vehicle which: 
502.7.1 Exceeds the Height, Length, or Width of the Pilot Escort Vehicle, or Overhangs 
the Pilot Escort Vehicle, or otherwise impairs its immediate recognition as a 
safety Pilot Escort Vehicle by the motoring public; however when it is not in use, 
the height pole may be tied down or secured to the vehicle and extend beyond 
the rear of the Pilot Escort Vehicle up to but not exceeding 4 feet; or 
502.7.2 Obstructs the view of the flashing yellow or amber lights or the signs used by the 
Pilot Escort Vehicle; or 
502.7.3 Causes safety risks; or 
502.7.4 Otherwise impairs the performance by the Pilot Escort driver or the Pilot Escort 
Vehicle of the duties required by the Rules. 
502.8 
The Pilot Escort driver shall properly load and secure any item(s) or equipment or load 
carried by the Pilot Escort Vehicle to ensure compliance with the requirements of this 
Section. 
502.9 
No passengers under 16 years of age are allowed in pilot escort vehicles during 
movement of oversize load. 
503 
Pilot Escort Vehicle Signing Requirements 
503.1 
A Pilot Escort Vehicle shall display signs to indicate “Wide Load” or “Wide” , “Long Load” 
or “Long” , or “Oversize Load” or “Oversize” , as applicable. 
503.1.1 All such signs shall be a minimum of five feet wide, ten inches high with one inch 
wide brush stroke, black letters a minimum of eight inches high on yellow 
background, or shall be a maximum of seven feet wide, eighteen inches high, 
with a 1.41 inch brush stroke, black letters a minimum of ten inches high on 
yellow background. 
503.1.2 The signs must be mounted on the top of the pilot/escort vehicle.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
23 
503.1.3 The sign for the front/pilot escort vehicle shall be displayed so as to be clearly 
legible and readable by oncoming traffic at all times. 
503.1.4 The rear pilot/escort vehicle shall display its sign so as to be readable by traffic 
overtaking from the rear and clearly legible at all times. 
503.2 
Pilot Escort Identification signs or placards shall be displayed on the Pilot Escort Vehicle 
at all times when escorting an Extra-legal Vehicle or Load. The sign or placard must: 
503.2.1 Appear on both sides of the Pilot Escort Vehicle. 
503.2.2 Be in letters that contrast sharply in color with the background on which the 
letters are placed. 
503.2.3 Be readily legible, during Hours of Daylight, from a distance of 50 feet while the 
Vehicle is stationary; and 
503.2.4 Be kept and maintained in a manner that retains the legibility required by 
subparagraph 503.2.3 of this subsection. 
503.3 
A route survey identification sign shall be displayed on the Pilot Escort Vehicle at all 
times when the driver is conducting a route survey and has the height pole extended 
above legal height. 
503.3.1 Such sign shall state “Route Survey” and be displayed in the same manner as 
the Oversize Load sign used when piloting loads. 
503.3.2 All such signs shall be a minimum of five feet wide, ten inches high with one inch 
wide brush stroke, black letters a minimum of eight inches high on yellow 
background, or shall be a maximum of seven feet wide, eighteen inches high, 
with a 1.41 inch brush stroke, black letters a minimum of ten inches high on 
yellow background. 
503.3.3 A route survey may not be conducted during the piloting of an Extra-Legal 
Vehicle or Load move. 
504 
Pilot Escort Vehicle Lighting Requirements 
504.1 
A Pilot Escort Vehicle shall, in addition to any other equipment required by the traffic 
laws, be equipped with at least one, but not more than three, Flashing Yellow or amber 
light, as defined in Section 216 of the Rules. The Flashing Yellow or amber light(s) shall 
be top mount and visible to approaching traffic from the front and the rear of the Pilot 
Escort Vehicle. 
504.2 
Two methods of lighting are authorized by the Department as follows: 
504.2.1 Two AAMVA approved Yellow or Amber Flashing Lights mounted on each side of 
the required top mounted sign. These shall be a minimum of 6 inches in diameter 
with a capacity of 60 flashes per minute with warning lights illuminated at all 
times during operation and visible for 360 degrees for at least 500 feet, or 
504.2.2 An AAMVA approved yellow or amber rotating, oscillating, or flashing 
beacon/light bar mounted on top of the pilot escort vehicle. This beacon/light bar 
must be unobstructed and visible for 360 degrees for at least 500 feet.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
24 
504.3 
Incandescent, strobe or diode (LED) lights may be used provided they meet the above 
criteria. 
504.4 
The Pilot Escort Vehicle shall use its headlights at all times during operation when 
escorting an Extra-legal Vehicle or Load. 
505 
Pilot Escort Vehicle Equipment Requirements 
505.1 
Pilot Escort vehicles shall be equipped with the following safety items: 
505.1.1 Standard 18 inch or 24 inch red/white “STOP” and black/orange “SLOW” paddle 
signs. Construction zone flagging requires the 24-inch sign. 
505.1.2 At least three reflective bi-directional triangles or their equivalent. 
505.1.3 Eight red-burning flares, glow sticks or equivalent illumination device approved 
by the Department. 
505.1.4 Three orange traffic cones which are a minimum of 18 inches high with a 6 inch 
reflective collar. 
505.1.5 Flashlight, with a minimum 1 ½ inch lens diameter, with extra batteries or charger 
(emergency type shake or crank will not be allowed), and a 6 inch minimum 
length red or orange cone flashlight for use when directing traffic. 
505.1.6 Orange or white hardhat and Class 2 or Class 3 reflective high visibility safety 
vest for each person involved in pilot escort operations. Class 3 reflective vests 
are required for operations during hours of darkness. 
505.1.7 For front escort vehicles piloting loads greater than 16’ high, a height-measuring 
pole with a non-conductive tip, made of non-destructive, flexible material. 
Compression fittings must be accompanied by a secondary means of 
securement. Compression fittings alone are not allowed. 
a. 
A Pilot Escort Vehicle shall use a Height pole at all times when escorting 
an Extra-legal Vehicle or Load exceeding sixteen feet in Height, unless 
otherwise expressly authorized by the Department on the permit. 
b. 
The Height pole shall not extend more than six inches above the 
maximum Height of the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load the Pilot Escort 
Vehicle is escorting. 
c 
When the Pilot Escort Vehicle is not escorting an Extra-legal Vehicle or 
Load but is moving on the Highway, the Height pole shall be removed, 
tied down, or shortened to within Legal Limits. 
505.1.8 One 5 lb B.C. fire extinguisher or one 10 lb A.B.C. fire extinguisher for Pilot 
Escorts of Hazardous Materials. 
505.1.9 A minimum of two red or orange flags mounted to the top of the vehicle at 
approximately 45 degree angles and not extending more than 6 inches on either 
side of the vehicle. 
505.1.10 
One spare “oversize load” sign, a minimum of 5 feet wide by 10 inches 
high or a maximum of 7 feet wide by 18 inches high.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
25 
505.1.11 
At least 2 Handheld two-way simplex radios or other form of 
communication for operations outside pilot escort vehicles. 
505.1.12 
First aid kit must be clearly marked. 
505.1.13 
Serviceable spare tire, tire jack and lug wrench. 
505.2 
Vehicles shall not have unauthorized equipment on or in the vehicle similar to that used 
by emergency or law enforcement personnel. This equipment includes, but is not limited 
to, the following: 
505.2.1 A lamp or device that is designed to display, or that is capable of displaying if 
affixed or attached to the vehicle, a red or blue light visible directly in front of the 
center of the vehicle. 
505.2.2 A flashing, oscillating, or rotating red light, blue light, white light, or blue light in 
combination with white. 
505.2.3 An audible device such as a siren or a horn that, if used, would give other drivers 
the impression that they must yield the right-of-way or pull over. 
505.3 
The operator of the Pilot Escort Vehicle shall use the Pilot Escort Vehicle and the 
equipment described herein only in compliance with the Rules. 
505.4 
When a Pilot Escort Vehicle is not escorting an Extra-legal Vehicle or Load but is moving 
on the Highway, the signs described in Section 503.1 of the Rules shall either be 
removed or covered, and the Flashing Yellow or Amber Lights described in Section 504.1 
of the Rules shall not be operated. 
506 
Pilot Escort Vehicles Operating Conditions 
506.1 
A Pilot Escort Vehicle is prohibited from escorting more than one Extra-legal Vehicle or 
Load at the same time, unless expressly so authorized under a Chapter 6 Special permit. 
506.2 
Tillerman operations will not be performed by the Pilot Escort Vehicle driver/operator or 
by a passenger in the Pilot Escort Vehicle that is escorting the Extra-legal Vehicle or 
Load. 
506.3 
When the Pilot Escort Vehicle is in front of the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load being 
escorted, the operator shall: 
506.3.1 Warn oncoming traffic of the presence of the Vehicle or Load by use of lights and 
signs as provided in Sections 503.1 and 504.1 of the Rules. 
506.3.2 Notify the driver of the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load by two-way radio of all 
hazards; overhead clearances; obstructions; traffic congestion; pedestrians; and 
any other circumstances evident to the operator that could affect either the safe 
movement of the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load, the safety of the traveling public, or 
the efficient movement of traffic in sufficient time for the driver of the Extra-legal 
Vehicle or Load to take remedial action, as necessary.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
26 
506.3.3 To the extent necessary, locate safe places (if available) adjacent to the Highway 
and notify the driver of the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load thereof to allow the Extra-
legal Vehicle or Load and the Pilot Escort Vehicle(s) to clear the Highway, so that 
following traffic can safely pass or for any other reasons necessary to protect 
public safety and the efficient movement of traffic. 
506.3.4 Be far enough in front of the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load to signal oncoming 
motorists to stop in a timely manner, pursuant to this Section 506.5, before such 
motorists enter any narrow structures or other restrictions on the Highway to 
permit the safe passage of the Vehicle or Load. 
506.4 
When the Pilot Escort Vehicle is behind the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load, the Pilot Escort 
driver shall: 
506.4.1 Warn traffic approaching from the rear of the presence of the Extra-legal Vehicle 
or Load ahead, by use of lights and signs as provided in Section 503.1 and 504.1 
of the Rules. 
506.4.2 Notify the driver of the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load by two-way radio of flat tires or 
other problems with the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load; objects coming loose from 
the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load; other traffic approaching or passing the Extra-
legal Vehicle or Load; and any other circumstances evident to the operator that 
could affect either the safe movement of the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load, the 
safety of the traveling public, or the efficient movement of traffic in sufficient time 
for the driver of the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load to take remedial action, as 
necessary. 
506.4.3 Notify the front Pilot Escort driver and the driver of the Extra-legal Vehicle or 
Load by two-way radio of traffic build-up and other delays to the normal flow and 
efficient movement of traffic caused by the movement of the Extra-legal Vehicle 
or Load. 
506.4.4 Notify the driver of the Vehicle or Load by two-way radio of other Vehicles 
attempting to pass the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load. 
506.4.5 Be far enough behind the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load to signal motorists 
following the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load to slow or stop in a timely manner, 
pursuant to this Section 506.5, before narrow structures or other restrictions in 
the Highway to permit the safe passage of the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load. 
506.5 
In the performance of the duties required by the Rules, the Pilot Escort driver may direct 
other traffic to stop, slow, or proceed in situations where such direction is necessary to 
allow the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load to continue moving safely, except as provided 
below. 
506.5.1 The Pilot Escort driver shall signal the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load to stop, and 
the Extra-legal Vehicle shall stop, as far off of the roadway as practicable to allow 
other traffic to pass the stopped Extra-legal Vehicle or Load in the following 
situations: 
506.5.1.1 
When the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load becomes disabled; or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
27 
506.5.1.2 
When the movement of the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load on a 
particular section of State Highway presents a safety risk or 
unreasonably interferes with the efficient movement of other traffic, 
based upon such factors as the Widths of the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load 
and the roadway, volume of other traffic, visibility and limited sight 
distance, and mountainous terrain; or 
506.5.1.3 
When driving conditions for the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load are 
hazardous for any other reason, including weather. When the Extra-legal 
Vehicle or Load has been stopped pursuant to this Subsection D, the 
Pilot Escort driver shall then direct other traffic past the Extra-legal 
Vehicle or Load, as necessary, until such time as the Extra-legal Vehicle 
or Load can re-enter the roadway and continue moving without 
presenting a safety risk or unreasonably interfering with the efficient 
movement of other traffic. 
506.5.2 When directing traffic in the situations described in this Section, Pilot Escort 
driver shall: 
506.5.2.1 
Stand outside the Pilot Escort Vehicle; 
506.5.2.2 
Use the paddle signs and other equipment identified in Section 
505; and 
506.5.2.3 
Comply with the flagging procedures and requirements 
described in Section 6E.01 through Section 6E.05 of the Manual on 
Uniform Traffic Control Devices (M.U.T.C.D.) 
506.6 
Traffic lights procedure: 
506.6.1 If the front Pilot Escort Vehicle goes through a traffic light but the Extra-legal 
Vehicle or Load does not, then the Pilot Escort Vehicle must pull over to the right 
side of the Highway, where practicable, to wait for the Extra-legal Vehicle or 
Load. 
506.6.2 If the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load goes through the traffic light but the rear Pilot 
Escort Vehicle does not, then the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load cannot proceed 
under the provisions of the permit to have a rear Pilot Escort. 
506.7 
Pilot Escort drivers are responsible for all requirements utilizing pilot escorts as directed 
in Chapter 4 of these rules. 
507 
Convoy of Extra-Legal Vehicles or Loads 
The movement of more than one permitted vehicles in convoy is not allowed except when that 
authorization is specifically stated on the oversize/overweight transport permit. 
508 
Trip Planning and Coordination Requirements 
508.1 
Pre-trip planning shall be done as follows:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
28 
508.1.1 A coordination and planning meeting shall be held prior to load movement. The 
meeting can be held at the roadside when the required parties come together to 
organize the trip. The required parties may include some or all of the following: 
the driver(s) carrying or pulling the oversize load(s), the pilot escort vehicle 
driver(s), law enforcement officers (if assigned), Department personnel (if 
involved), and public utilities company representatives (if involved). This meeting 
shall include discussion and coordination on the conduct of the move, including 
at least the following topics: 
508.1.1 The person designated as being in charge. 
508.1.2 Authorized routing and permit conditions. Pilot Escort drivers shall ensure that all 
copies of permit and routing documentation is distributed to all appropriate 
individuals involved with the permitted load movement. 
508.1.3 Coordination of the communication and signals to be used. 
508.1.4 A verification or measurement of load dimensions with permitted dimensions 
shall be done jointly by the operator of the Extra-Legal Vehicle or Load and the 
Pilot Escort driver. 
508.1.2 The operator of the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load and the Pilot Escort driver shall 
comply with the following procedures: 
508.1.2.1 
Discuss aspects of the move, including the Extra-legal Vehicle or 
Load, the route, and specific responsibilities. 
508.1.2.2 
Review the permit conditions and distribute copies of the OS/OW 
permit to each Pilot Escort driver. 
508.1.2.3 
Review the permitted route with the highway restrictions 
specified in the Rules, Bridge Weight Limit map, Height Restriction map, 
Pilot Escort and Oversize Restriction map and the Transport permit. 
508.1.2.4 
Determine the proper position of the Pilot Escort Vehicle(s). 
508.1.2.5 
Check mandatory equipment. 
508.1.2.6 
Mount signs, adjust mirrors, and turn on lights. 
508.1.2.7 
Check each 2-way radio to ensure clear communication on a 
selected channel. 
508.2 
During the trip the operator of the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load and the Pilot Escort driver 
shall comply with the following procedures: 
508.2.1 Obey all traffic laws. 
508.2.2 Maintain proper distance between the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load and the Pilot 
Escort Vehicle. 
508.2.2.1 
The Pilot Escort driver shall not follow or precede Extra-legal 
Vehicle or Load more closely than is reasonably prudent, considering the 
speed of the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load, other traffic, and Highway 
conditions,

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
29 
508.2.2.2 
The Pilot Escort driver shall be close enough to warn other traffic 
of Extra-legal Vehicle or Load. 
509 
Denials, Suspensions and Revocations of Pilot Escort Driver Certification 
509.1 
Reasons for denials, suspensions, revocations 
509.1.1 Pilot escort drivers may have their certification revoked by the Department if 
convicted of a disqualifying offense. 
509.1.2 The certification may be revoked on the date and to the extent the Pilot Escort 
driver’s motor vehicle driver's license is canceled, suspended or revoked or if 
conviction of a drug and alcohol related offense, or if a single moving violation 
penalty assessment of six (6) or more points have been assessed against the 
driver’s license pursuant to §42-2-122 to §42-2-208, C.R.S. The Pilot Escort 
driver must notify the Department immediately of any such cancellation, 
suspension or revocation, and must provide to the Department a copy of any 
written notice of same. 
509.1.3 The Department may revoke for first offenses up to one year or the term of the 
driver’s license revocation, which ever is longer, after which time the applicant 
may reapply for a new certification by submitting a new application as required in 
these rules. Subsequent offenses may result in permanent revocation of Pilot 
Escort driver certification. 
509.1.4 In addition, the Department may deny, suspend or revoke a certificate, pursuant 
to §24-4-104 and §24-4-105, C.R.S., for: 
509.1.4.1 
Failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 500 above, or 
failure to give the required or correct information on the application for 
certification as a Pilot Escort driver, or the commission of any fraud in 
making the application. 
509.1.4.2 
Violation of the Rules. 
509.1.4.3 
Failure to notify the Department of any cancellation, suspension, 
or revocation of the operator's motor vehicle driver's license by the 
“DMV” within five working days of the Pilot Escort driver’s receipt of 
notice of the same. 
509.1.4.4 
Conduct while operating a motor vehicle or a Pilot Escort 
Vehicle, which, as determined by the Department, threatens the public 
safety or welfare of Highway users or creates unreasonable interference 
with the efficient movement of traffic. 
509.1.4.5 
Allowing or permitting an uncertified person to operate a Pilot 
Escort Vehicle under the Pilot Escort driver's supervision or direction. 
509.2 
Appeal Process 
When a Pilot Escort driver is denied, suspended or revoked of his/her pilot escort 
certification the individual may file an appeal. All appeals and hearings shall be 
requested, provided and conducted pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act (APA) 
§24-4-101, et seq. C.R.S. Appeals shall be made in writing and filed with the Chief 
Engineer of the Department as outlined in Chapter 10 of these rules.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
30 
CHAPTER 6 
SPECIAL PERMITS 
600 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load which the Department determines, based upon the application 
information, either requires extraordinary action or exceeds the Maximum Limits, and which does 
not qualify for a Chapter 8 Special Mobile Machinery Exemption, is prohibited from travel unless 
authorized by a Chapter 6 Special or Super Load permit. 
601 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load under a Special or Super Load permit shall comply with the 
following: 
601.1 
Applicable requirements of the Rules. 
601.2 
All conditions of the permit, which the Department determined to be necessary after a 
detailed analysis of the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load and the move, including but not 
limited to: 
601.2.1 The size and type of Load to be moved. 
601.2.2 The method to be utilized in making the move. 
601.2.3 The areas where the move originates and terminates. 
601.2.4 Route requested for the move. 
601.2.5 The distance of the move. 
602 
Special or Super Load permits shall be valid for only a single one-way trip. 
603 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load under a special or Super Load permit shall have at least one Pilot 
Escort Vehicle in the front and shall have at least one Pilot Escort Vehicle in the rear, except 
when expressly designated otherwise by the Department. The Department may require the 
Permittee, as a condition of the permit, to provide Colorado State Patrol escort or additional Pilot 
Escort Vehicles and flagpersons based upon certain factors including, but not limited to: State 
Highway Width, traffic volume, visibility, and whether the Width of the Load interferes with or 
blocks more than one Lane of traffic. If additional Pilot Escort Vehicles and flagpersons are 
required, they shall stop traffic at all intersections and other turn out areas ahead of the Load as 
necessary in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Rules to allow the Load to pass such areas 
without causing safety or traffic hazards, except as otherwise described in the permit by the 
Department. 
604 
When required as a condition of the permit, the Permittee shall employ standby pulling Vehicles 
as a precaution in case of Vehicle breakdown when utilizing high volume sections of the State 
Highway. 
605 
Public Notice 
605.1 
If a condition of the permit requires a State Highway to be closed because the Extra-legal 
Vehicle or Load will use the entire Highway, the Permittee shall provide public notification 
of the temporary closure of a State Highway, not less than two weeks in advance of the 
move or as otherwise prescribed by the Department. 
605.2 
Public notification shall consist of one or more of the following: local newspaper, radio, 
television, or on-site location signs as determined by the Department to be appropriate 
and as indicated by the Department in the permit.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
31 
606 
The Permittee shall comply with additional requirements, including but not limited to the following, 
when included as condition(s) of the permit: 
606.1 
Bridge shoring. 
606.2 
Setting up turn out areas. 
606.3 
Traveling in the center of the driving Lane. 
606.4 
Posting a bond or establishing an escrow account to pay for potential damage to the 
Highway or any Highway structure, or for cost of Department employees and/or Colorado 
State Patrol to accompany the load and supervise movement, or for response to any 
problems encountered during the move. 
606.5 
Removing all material used in the move from the Highway or right-of-way. 
606.6 
Any other requirements the Department deems necessary. 
607 
The Applicant shall examine the proposed route and shall determine whether conflicts exist 
between the dimensions of the Load and all structures, including overhead lines and railroad 
crossings, that may be damaged, disturbed, or otherwise interfered with due to the move and that 
may need to be altered to allow for the move. The Applicant shall contact the representatives of 
all such structures including but not limited to utility companies, if any, and shall resolve such 
conflicts before the move. An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load is prohibited from travel until such 
conflicts have been resolved. 
608 
An extra-legal vehicle or load that exceeds any of the Maximum limits established for Annual 
permits in Chapter 3 is prohibited from travel unless authorized by a Chapter 6 Special or Super 
Load permit. 
609 
As identified in § 42-4-510 (1.7), C.R.S., Super Load permits may be issued for a combination 
Vehicle with a weight of five hundred thousand pounds or more that occupies two Lanes to haul 
the load; or an unladen combination Vehicle with an expandable dual-Lane transport trailer that 
occupies two Lanes. 
609.1 
For the purposes of this subsection, a Vehicle or Load will be deemed to occupy two 
Lanes when the total Width of the Vehicle or Load exceeds 15 feet. 
609.2 
An Applicant for a Super Load permit shall provide the Department with acceptable third 
party documentation establishing the gross weight of the Load. Acceptable third party 
documentation includes, but is not limited to: 
609.2.1 Manufacturer’s certification of the weight of the Load. 
609.2.2 Certified weight ticket from a certified public scale. 
609.2.3 Clearance certification from a law enforcement agency that has weighed the 
Load. 
609.2.4 Third-party bill of lading that clearly indicates the weight of the Load. 
609.3 
An Extra-Legal Vehicle or Load under a Super Load permit shall comply with the 
following: 
609.3.1 Applicable requirements of the Rules.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
32 
609.3.2 All conditions of the permit. 
609.3.3 Driver shall have in his/her possession a copy of the acceptable third-party 
certification of weight provided to the Department. 
CHAPTER 7 
EXCEPTIONS TO THE RULES 
700 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load identified in §42-4-510 (9), C.R.S., shall be exempt from the 
requirement to obtain a permit. 
701 
All Extra-legal Vehicles or Loads owned by the United States or a Colorado political subdivision, 
other than those identified in §42-4-510 (9), C.R.S., shall be required to obtain a permit but shall 
be exempt from applicable permit fees. 
702 
Vehicles or Loads that are within all Legal Limits except Height are exempt from the lighting 
requirements of Section 408.3. 
703 
A Pilot Escort Vehicle operating with a Height pole which exceeds the legal limit for Height shall 
be exempt from the requirement to obtain a permit for the pole., 
704 
Tow Carrier Exceptions: this section applies to tow carriers as defined by Section 40-13-101, 40-
10.1-101(20),C.R.S. 
704.1 
Emergency moves shall be exempt from the holiday restrictions in Section 404 and the 
hours of restriction in Sections 401, 402, and 403 and: 
704.2 
Emergency moves authorized by Peace Officers as defined in article 1.5 of title 16 are 
allowed as follows: 
704.2.1 Tow carriers are exempt from the requirements to obtain an Extra-Legal permit; 
and 
704.2.2 Emergency moves under this section shall have a case report, transaction, or call 
number issued by a peace officer; and 
704.2.3 Destination shall be approved by a peace officer. 
704.3 
Emergency moves not authorized by Peace Officers are allowed as follows: 
704.3.1 The tow carrier may move a vehicle or load when the emergency condition 
requires immediate response, that if left unattended would likely result in serious 
bodily harm, death or substantial damage to property; and 
704.3.2 The emergency move must be properly documented by the Tow Carrier; and 
704.3.3 The towing carrier must have a valid extra-legal permit. 
704.4 
Towing carriers may transport an Extra-legal Vehicle, LVC, or other combination, divisible 
or non-divisible, or single unit that becomes an Extra-legal Vehicle when connected to a 
towing carrier, to place of repair or towing carrier’s storage facility, and: 
704.4.1 The towing carrier must have a valid extra-legal permit but not confined to 
parameters of section 304 and 
704.4.2 The towing carrier must have a PUC permit as required in 40-13-103 CRS; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
33 
704.4.3 When towing a combination vehicle, the towing carrier must utilize the braking 
system of the trailer, if operational, unless exempted by a peace officer; and 
704.4.3.1 
Any Pilot Escort vehicles, which were required to accompany the 
load prior to requiring the tow, shall continue to accompany the load, 
while being towed. 
704.4.3.2 
These rules shall not require the tow carrier to obtain a Pilot 
Escort vehicle[s] if not required before the towing carrier connected; and 
704.4.3.3 
The towing carrier is exempt from Section 405 regarding 
hazards; and 
704.4.3.4 
The towing carrier is exempt from Section 212 and 407.1 
regarding divisible loads; and 
704.4.3.5 
The towing carrier is exempt from Sections 407 and 412 
regarding weight restrictions however in no event shall a towing carrier 
exceed the allowable weights of any bridge as designated on the Bridge 
Weight map. 
704.4.3.6 
A ‘covered heavy-duty tow and recovery vehicle’ shall be exempt 
from the requirement to obtain an overweight permit. 
704.4.3.6.1 
The term ‘covered heavy-duty tow and recovery vehicle’ 
means a vehicle that— 
(A) 
Is transporting a disabled vehicle from the place where 
the vehicle became disabled to the nearest appropriate 
repair facility; and 
(B) 
Has a gross vehicle weight that is equal to or exceeds 
the gross vehicle weight of the disabled vehicle being 
transported. 
705 
Commercial snow removal Vehicles that are within all Legal Limits except Width shall be exempt 
from the restrictions of Sections 401 through 405, the sign requirements of Section 405.7 and the 
Pilot Escort Vehicle requirements of Section 408 subject to the following conditions: 
705.1 
The Vehicle must not exceed fourteen feet in Width; and 
705.2 
The snow removal blade must be raised and turned parallel to the Highway as much as 
possible, when the Vehicle is moving on a State Highway but not plowing snow, so that 
the Width of the blade to oncoming traffic is minimized. 
706 
A Vehicle or Load which is within all Legal Limits except weight shall be exempt from the sign 
requirements of Section 405.7. 
707 
An LVC shall be exempt from the following requirements of the Rules: 
707.1 
Sections 309.3, 309.4 and 309.5 regarding documents required to be in the permitted 
Vehicle. 
707.2 
Section 405.7 regarding sign requirements.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
34 
707.3 
Section 410 regarding Pilot Escort Vehicles. 
707.4 
Section 408.3 regarding flashing lights. 
708 
Exemptions for Mobile Cranes 
708.1 
Crane boom sections transported side by side as items essential to the operation of the 
crane shall be exempt from Section 212 regarding divisible Loads, provided that such 
sections do not exceed an overall Width of eleven feet six inches, and provided that the 
trailer unit carrying the crane boom sections travels on the Highways with and directly 
behind the crane. Notwithstanding Section 405.8 a distance of not less than 100 feet nor 
more than 500 feet shall be maintained between the crane and the trailer unit. 
708.2 
Cranes will be allowed to carry counterweights providing the vehicle does not exceed the 
Bridge Weight Limit map limits, and the counterweights are manufactured as part of the 
unit. 
709 
Right of Way Exceptions 
709.1 
An Extra-legal Vehicle or Load entering State Highway right-of-way for the sole purpose 
of immediately crossing the State Highway is exempt from the requirement to obtain a 
permit if the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load does not exceed the annual permit specifications 
listed in Section 304.2. 
709.2 
The Permittee of an Extra-legal Vehicle or Load which exceeds the annual permit 
specifications of Section 304.2 shall contact the Region Maintenance Superintendent 
prior to crossing the State Highway to determine if a permit will be required. In 
determining whether a permit will be required, the Region Maintenance Superintendent 
shall consider the number of proposed crossings, seasonal and weather conditions, time 
of crossings, protection of efficient movement of traffic, protection of the Highway from 
undue damage to the road, width of the state right-of- way involved, and any other factors 
relevant to the specific right-of-way. 
710 
Notwithstanding Section 255 of the Rules, the overall Width of manufactured home shall be 
based on the total Width of the manufactured home exclusive of the measurement of the eaves of 
the manufactured home, provided; 
710.1 
The base Width of the manufactured housing unit does not exceed fourteen feet; and 
710.2 
The total Width of the eave or eaves does not exceed two feet. 
711 
Concrete pump trucks may haul up to 200 feet of pipe and 125 gallons of water in the main tank; 
as items essential to the operation of the load. 
712 
Emergency Vehicles 
712.1 
An emergency vehicle, other than an “Authorized emergency vehicle”, as defined in § 42-
1-102(6), C.R.S., which is designed to be used under emergency conditions: to transport 
personnel and equipment; and to support the suppression of fires and mitigation of other 
hazardous situations shall be exempt from the requirement to obtain an overweight 
permit if the gross vehicle weight is less than 86,000 lbs. Maximum axle allowances are 
as follows: 
(A) 
24,000 pounds on a single steering axle;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
35 
(B) 
33,500 pounds on a single drive axle; 
(C) 
62,000 pounds on a tandem axle; or 
(D) 
52,000 pounds on a tandem rear drive steer axle. 
712.2 
Weight allowances for axle configurations not listed in 712.1, are as listed on the 
Colorado Bridge Weight Limit map 
713 
Auxiliary Power Unit Exceptions: 
713.1 
For Gross Weight: 
713.1.1 Any Vehicle that utilizes an Auxiliary Power or idle reduction technology unit in 
order to promote reduction of fuel use and emissions because of engine idling, 
shall have the actual weight of the Auxiliary Power or idle reduction technology 
unit, up to 550 lbs., exempted from the calculation of actual Gross Vehicle 
Weight. To be eligible for this exemption, the operator of the vehicle must be able 
to prove by written certification, the actual weight of the APU; and by 
demonstration or certification, that the idle reduction technology is fully functional 
at all times. 
713.1.2 Certification of the weight of the APU must be available to law enforcement 
officers if the Vehicle is found in violation of applicable weight laws. The 
additional weight allowed cannot exceed 500 lbs. or the weight certified 
whichever is less. 
713.2 
For Axle Weight: Any Vehicle that utilizes an Auxiliary Power or idle reduction technology 
unit in order to promote reduction of fuel use and emissions because of engine idling, 
shall have the actual weight of the Auxiliary Power or idle reduction technology unit, up to 
550 lbs., exempted from the calculation of actual axle weight. To be eligible for this 
exemption, the operator of the vehicle must be able to prove by written certification, the 
actual weight of the APU; and by demonstration or certification, that the idle reduction 
technology is fully functional at all times. 
Certification of the weight of the APU must be available to law enforcement officers if the 
Vehicle is found in violation of applicable weight laws. The additional weight allowed 
cannot exceed 550 lbs. or the weight certified whichever is less. 
CHAPTER 8 
SPECIAL MOBILE MACHINERY EXEMPTION (SMME) 
800 
Mobile Machinery that exceeds Maximum Limits as identified in these Rules is prohibited from 
travel on State Highways except under a Special Mobile Machinery Exemption (SMME) and 
permit. 
801 
Applicants for a SMME must file an application for a certificate of exemption with the Department. 
An application for a SMME certificate shall contain the following information: 
801.1 
Applicant's name and complete address. 
801.2 
Current Vehicle registration. 
801.3 
For Mobile Machinery that does not meet the requirements of Section 803 8.4 of these 
Rules, a registration, or other document of evidentiary value, indicating Mobile Machinery 
was registered continuously in Colorado from prior to July 1, 1984.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
36 
801.4 
Current photograph of Mobile Machinery. 
801.5 
A weight certificate from an official certified scale, which contains the information required 
in §35-14-122 (2) (a), C.R.S, and which indicates Axle weight distribution and Gross 
Vehicle Weight of the Extra-legal Vehicle or Load. If the Applicant does not have an 
official certified scale on the premises where the Mobile Machinery is located, the 
Applicant must obtain a Single-trip permit to move the Mobile Machinery to an official 
certified scale. 
802 
If the certificate of exemption is granted, the Applicant must then submit an application, for a 
Transport Permit as provided in Chapter 3 of the Rules. 
803 
To qualify for a SMME certificate, Mobile Machinery which are loaders, rough terrain cranes, or 
two or three Axle rubber-tired scrapers, must meet the following requirements: 
803.1 
Shall not exceed 110,000 pounds Gross Vehicle Weight; 
803.2 
Shall not exceed more than 73,000 pounds on any one Axle; and 
803.3 
Shall not travel more than 10 miles for any intended trip. If the intended trip is more than 
10 miles, the Mobile Machinery shall be transported. 
804 
A SMME certificate may be transferred to the new owner upon sale, repossession, or other 
transfer of the Mobile Machinery if the new owner files an application to transfer the SMME 
certificate with the Department. 
805 
A copy of the SMME certificate, or access to the certificate electronically, shall be carried in the 
Mobile Machinery when the Mobile Machinery is operating or moving on a State Highway. The 
certificate of exemption shall be open to inspection by any police officer or by an authorized agent 
of the Department. The Department shall maintain a copy of the exemption. 
CHAPTER 9 
LONGER VEHICLE COMBINATIONS PERMIT OPERATING REQUIREMENTS, LIMITS 
AND RESTRICTIONS 
900 
An applicant must submit a complete application to the Department in the form provided by the 
Department to obtain a permit. The application must include, in detail, a description of the need 
for the permit, the vehicle to be permitted, and the location(s) or facility(s) off of the designated 
highway segments for which LVC access is requested. The issuance of a longer vehicle permit is 
subject to the approval of the Department of the movement of a longer vehicle combination. The 
Department shall give first consideration to the safety and convenience of the general public and 
the protection of the state highway system. Permits are expressly conditioned upon the applicant 
having an established safety program as provided in section 906 in this section. 
901 
Longer vehicle combinations operating under a permit shall travel only on those designated 
highway segments identified in these rules and route(s) of ingress and egress as provided in 
section 903 in this section. 
902 
As a condition of issuance of the longer vehicle combination permit, the Permittee agrees to 
abide by the terms and conditions of the permit. The permit may include but shall be limited to the 
terms and conditions specified by the Department and found in these rules and regulations or 
otherwise as provided by law. Additional terms and conditions may be imposed by the 
Department to protect the safety of the traveling public and the integrity of roads and highways 
under state jurisdiction. Application forms may be obtained from the Department’s Permit Office.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
37 
903 
A LVC is required to obtain a LVC permit, pursuant to §42-4-505 (1), C.R.S., as amended. If the 
LVC exceeds legal weight limits, it also must obtain an overweight permit to haul divisible loads, 
and may obtain an overweight annual fleet permit, pursuant to §42-4-510, C.R.S., as amended. 
904 
Permits may be issued as follows: 
904.1 
LVC permits are valid for a period of one year pursuant to §42-4-505 (1), C.R.S. however 
the Department has the discretion to offer a longer period and collect the appropriate fee 
for the permit period; and 
904.2 
If the LVC exceeds legal weight limits, an overweight permit, on an annual or a single trip 
basis, pursuant to Section 42-4-510, C.R.S., as amended; and 
904.3 
If the applicant has more than one LVC that exceed legal weight limits, an overweight 
fleet permit on an annual basis, pursuant to §42-4-510 (11) (a) (III) (C), C.R.S., as 
amended. 
904.4 
Issuance of permits is restricted to longer vehicle combinations as identified in these 
rules. 
905 
Application for the permit shall be made during regular business hours Monday through Friday 
except on legal holidays observed by the State of Colorado. 
906 
Application must be submitted to the Department and the application must be signed by the 
owner or lessee of the longer vehicle combinations covered under the permit, or by the 
authorized representative of such owner or lessee. 
907 
A copy of the permit, or access to the permit electronically, shall be carried in each longer vehicle 
combination operating under the Permittee’s annual permit and shall be open to inspection by 
any peace officer or authorized agent of the Department, Colorado State Patrol, Port of Entry, 
and Public Utilities Commission, or counties and municipalities when a longer vehicle 
combination is being operated on a route of ingress and egress through their jurisdiction. The 
carrier company shall maintain a copy of such annual permit in each vehicle operating as a longer 
vehicle combination; except that, if a peace officer, as described in §16-2.5-101, C.R.S., or an 
authorized agent of the department of transportation may determine that the permit can be 
electronically verified at the time of contact, a copy of the permit need not be in each vehicle. 
908 
Upon request by the Department, Permittees shall provide the Department with reports and data 
on operational costs, equipment, maintenance, safety inspections, accidents, and other items as 
requested to assist the Department in evaluating operation of longer vehicle combinations. 
909 
The Department may grant a permit modification to allow a Permittee to access another facility as 
provided in Section 903 in this chapter, at the sole discretion of the Department. 
910 
(REPEALED, EFFECTIVE MARCH 30, 2020; expired 07/28/2020) 
911 
HAZARDS: An LVC is prohibited from travel when: 
911.1 
The Department, State Patrol, or other peace officer determines and provides public 
notice by any available means that a hazardous road condition exists for an Extra-legal 
Vehicle or Load; or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
38 
911.2 
The Permittee knows that a hazardous road condition exists for an Extra-legal Vehicle or 
Load. Hazardous road conditions may include water, ice, snow, mud, wind, or rocks on 
the Highway; or debris from an accident, natural disaster, or an Emergency on the 
Highway. 
911.3 
When considering restricting travel during inclement weather drivers will consider road 
conditions, weather conditions, driving conditions and the overall safety of all motorists on 
the road. Specifically, drivers must consider at minimum the following factors when 
making the decision to travel: 
911.3.1 Road Conditions - Including but not limited to water, ice, snow, grade, shoulder 
availability, actual lane widths under adverse conditions ; and 
911.3.2 Driving Conditions – Including but not limited to vehicle volume, a minimum of 
1,000 feet visibility, construction restrictions; and 
911.3.3 Weather Conditions - Including but not limited to rain, sleet, fog, hail, snow, wind, 
mud, ice, visibility of less than 1,000 feet. 
912 
In accordance with the Grandfather authority of 23 United States Code Section 127 (1988), and 
with § 42-4-501 through 511, C.R.S., as amended, the maximum gross vehicle weight (GVW) of 
longer vehicle combinations (LVC) cannot exceed the weight determined by the following formula 
or eighty thousand pounds GVW whichever is less, except as may be authorized under §42-4-
510, C.R.S., as amended. A LVC may be authorized to exceed 80,000 pounds by an overweight 
permit issued pursuant to §42-4-510, C.R.S., as amended. The maximum GVW of such a LVC 
shall not exceed the weight determined by the formula W=800 (L+40) where “W” equals the gross 
weight in pounds and “L” equals the length in feet between the first and last axles, or the weight 
determined by the following formula, or 110,000 pounds, whichever is least: 
Formula: W = 500 [(LN/N-1) + 12N + 36] 
W = overall gross weight on any group of two or more consecutive axles to the nearest five 
hundred pounds. 
L = distance n feet between the extreme of any group of two or more consecutive axles. 
N = number of axles in the group under consideration. 
913 
A LVC shall be configured such that the shorter trailer shall be operated as the rear trailer, and 
the trailer with the heavier gross weight shall be operated as the front trailer. In the event that the 
shorter trailer is also the heavier, the load must be adjusted so that the front trailer is the longer 
and the heavier of the two. If these conditions cannot be met, operation of the combination is 
prohibited. 
914 
Ingress and Egress (Access) Provisions. In order to ensure public safety, to maintain the capacity 
and integrity of roadways adjacent to the designed state highway segments, and to eliminate 
unnecessary traffic noise and congestion, a LVC shall not be operated off the designated state 
highway segments except to access food, fuel, repairs, and rest, or to access a facility. Access to 
a facility shall be subject to the following conditions: 
914.1 
The facility must be either a manufacturing or a distribution center, or warehouse, or truck 
terminal, located in an area where industrial uses are permitted; or 
914.2 
The facility must be a construction site; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
39 
914.3 
The facility must meet the following criteria: 
914.3.1 LVCs are formed for transport or broken down for delivery on the premises; and 
914.3.2 Adequate off-roadway space exists on the premises to safely maneuver the LVC; 
and 
914.3.3 Adequate equipment is available on the premises to handle, load and unloads 
the LVC, its trailers, and cargo. 
915 
The Department may allow an applicant to access any other location or facility not named above 
which the Department determines meets the criteria specified in Section 903 in these rules, 
based in part upon information concerning the location or facility provided by the applicant in the 
permit application; and if the Permittee desires to change the facility or location it is authorized by 
permit to access, it must request a permit modification as provided in Section 909 in these rules. 
916 
The facility must be located within a maximum distance of ten (10) miles from the point where the 
LVC enters or exits the designated state highway segment. Such ten (10) mile distance shall be 
measured by the actual route(s) to be traveled to the facility, rather than by a straight line radius 
from the designated state highway segment to the facility; and 
917 
The ingress and egress route(s) between the designated state highway segment and the facility 
must be approved in advance by the public entity (the Department, municipality, or county) having 
jurisdiction for the roadway(s) that make up the route(s). Where the State of Colorado has 
jurisdiction over the route(s) of ingress and egress, in determining whether to approve the 
route(s) it will consider the following safety, engineering, and other criteria: 
917.1 
Safety of the motoring public. 
917.2 
Geometrics of the street and roadway. 
917.3 
Traffic volumes and patterns. 
917.4 
Protection of state highways, roadway, and structures. 
917.5 
Zoning and general characteristics of the route(s) to be encountered. 
917.6 
Other relevant criteria warranted by special circumstances of the proposed route(s). 
917 
Local entities, counties, and municipalities having jurisdiction over the route(s), should consider 
similar criteria in determining whether to approve the proposed ingress and egress route(s). 
918 
Driver Qualifications 
918.1 
The driver must fully comply with all drivers’ qualifications as set forth in the Department 
of Public Safety Rules and Regulations Concerning Minimum Standards for the 
Operation of Commercial Vehicles, at 8 CCR 1507-1, and the Colorado Uniform Motor 
Vehicle Law, Article 2 of Title 42, C.R.S., as amended, which are incorporated herein by 
reference. 
918.2 
The driver must have had not suspension of driving privileges in any state during the past 
three years where such suspension arose out of the operation of a motor vehicle used as 
a contract or common carrier of persons or property, as defined in Sections 40-10-101(4) 
(a) and 40-11-101(3), C.R.S., as amended in Section 42-4-235, C.R.S., as amended.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
40 
918.3 
The Permittee shall exercise control and supervision over any driver operating a longer 
vehicle combination under the Permittee’s permit. This control and supervision shall 
include, but is not limited to, designation of route(s), hours of operation and methods of 
operation. 
918.4 
The responsibility for strict compliance with these driver requirements shall be borne 
equally by the driver and the Permittee; failure to comply shall be grounds for revoking a 
permit or denying renewal of a permit as provided in Chapter 10 of these rules. 
919 
Equipment Selection 
919.1 
Longer vehicle combinations shall be comprised of an individual truck or truck tractor and 
trailer(s) such that the combinations comply with permissible longer vehicle combinations 
as identified in §42-4-505 (2), C.R.S. 
919.2 
The truck or truck tractor unit of all longer vehicle combinations shall have adequate 
power to maintain a minimum speed of twenty mph on any grade over which the 
combination is operating and to operate on level grades at speeds compatible with other 
traffic. 
919.3 
All longer vehicle combinations shall have adequate traction to maintain a minimum 
speed of twenty mph on any grade over which the combination is operating and can 
resume a speed of twenty mph after stopping on any such grade. 
919.4 
Longer vehicle combinations shall be operated with tires that meet the standards set forth 
in the Department of Public Safety’s Rules and Regulations Concerning Minimum 
Standards for the Operation of Commercial Vehicles, at 8 CCR 1507-1, and in Sections 
42-4-228 and 42-4-507, C.R.S., as amended. 
919.5 
All longer vehicle combinations are required to have a heavy duty fifth wheel and equal 
strength pick-up plates as provided in the Department of Public Safety’s Rules and 
Regulations Concerning Minimum Standards for the Operation of Commercial Vehicles, 
at 8 CCR 1507-1. This equipment must be properly lubricated and located in a position 
that provides stability in accordance with the requirements of Section 920.2.2 in these 
rules. 
919.6 
For all longer vehicle combinations utilizing a kingpin, the kingpin must be of a solid type 
and permanently fastened; screw-out or folding type kingpins are prohibited. 
919.7 
All longer vehicle combination hitch connections must be of no- minimal slack type, 
preferably air actuated ram. 
919.8 
All longer vehicle combination draw bar lengths shall be adequate to provide for the 
clearances required between the truck or truck tractor and the trailer(s) for turning and 
backing maneuvers. 
919.9 
All longer vehicle combination axles must be those designated for the width of the body 
of the trailer(s). 
919.10 All longer vehicle combination braking systems must comply with the Department of 
Public Safety’s Rules and Regulations Concerning Minimum Standards for the Operation 
of Commercial Vehicles, at 8 CCR 1507-1, and Section 42-4-223, C.R.S., as amended. 
In addition, fast air transmission and release valves must be provided on all trailer(s), 
semi-trailer(s) and converter dolly axles. A brake force limiting valve, sometimes called a 
“slippery road” valve, may be provided on the steering axle.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
41 
920 
Safety Considerations 
920.1 
Each applicant for longer vehicle combination permit and each current Permittee must 
have an established safety program that contains at a minimum the following 
requirements: 
920.1.1 The applicant or Permittee always must be in compliance with the following 
equipment and operator requirements as applicable: 
920.1.1.1 
The Department of Public Safety’s Rules and Regulations 
Concerning Minimum Standards for the Operation of Commercial 
Vehicles, at 8 CCR 1507-1. 
920.1.1.2 
The Colorado State Patrol’s Rules and Regulations Concerning 
the Permitting, Routing & Transportation of Hazardous and Nuclear 
Materials and the Intrastate Transportation of Agricultural Products in the 
State of Colorado, at 8 CCR 1507-25. 
920.1.1.3 
The Colorado Uniform Motor Vehicle Law, Articles 1 through 4 of 
Title 42, C.R.S., as amended. 
920.1.1.4 
The Public Utilities Commission’s Rules and Regulations entitled 
Rules Regulating Transportation by Motor Vehicle at 4 CCR 723-6. 
920.1.2 All drivers of longer vehicle combinations operating under a permit must be 
certified by the Permittee’s safety office. The certification shall demonstrate that 
the driver has complied with all written requirements, and that the driver has 
successfully completed a company approved road test for each type of 
combination to be operated as identified in these rules. The driver certification 
forms must be current and on file in the Permittee’s business office as stated on 
the application and must be available for inspection during regular business 
hours. 
920.1.3 All permit applicants are subject to prior approval to ensure that their equipment 
conforms with the requirements of these regulations. In addition, all equipment 
operated under the permit by the Permittee are subject to periodic field 
inspection to ensure continued compliance with equipment requirements. 
Failure to establish and maintain such a safety program is grounds for refusal to 
issue a permit to an applicant or to revoke the permit of the Permittee as 
provided in Chapter 10 in these rules. 
920.2 
In operating longer vehicle combinations, the following safety standards shall be followed: 
920.2.1 The driver of the longer vehicle combination shall maintain a minimum of six 
hundred feet between their vehicle and vehicles they are following except when 
overtaking and passing such vehicles. 
920.2.2 Except when passing another vehicle traveling in the same direction, or when 
conditions exist such that the longer vehicle combination cannot be safely 
operated in the furthermost right hand lane, longer vehicle combinations must 
remain in the furthermost right hand lane. 
920.2.3 In the event a longer vehicle combination is disabled for any reason, the driver 
shall park the combination as far off the traveled way as possible. In the case of

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
42 
an accident, the combination shall remain as close to the scene of the accident 
as possible without obstructing traffic more than necessary. 
920.2.4 The maximum speed for any longer vehicle combinations operated under permit 
shall not exceed the speed at which the combination can be safely operated and 
shall not exceed the posted speed limit. The minimum speed for any combination 
is provided in Sections 919.2 and 919.3 in these rules. 
920.2.5 All longer vehicle combinations must always be stable during normal operation, 
including braking. The trailer(s) of a longer vehicle combination traveling on the 
designated state highway segments shall follow in a path of the towing vehicle 
without shifting or swerving more than three inches to either side when the owing 
vehicle is moving in a straight line. Consideration shall be given to the condition 
of the road surface if the combination in operation does not comply with this 
standard. 
920.3 
In addition to reporting motor vehicle accidents as required in these rules and in Sections 
42-4-1601 et seq., C.R.S., as amended, all accidents involving a longer vehicle 
combination operated under a permit shall be reported by the Permittee to the 
Department within ten (10) calendar days of the date of the accident. 
920.4 
Complaints received by the Permittee concerning operation of longer vehicle 
combinations shall be reported to the Department within ten (10) calendar days after 
receiving the complaint. 
920.5 
The owner of every longer vehicle combination operated under a permit shall have a 
motor vehicle liability insurance policy in the amounts required in these rules and in 
Section 42-7-510, C.R.S., as amended, for each combination operated under the permit. 
CHAPTER 10 DENIAL OF PERMIT APPLICATION SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMITS 
HEARINGS AND APPEALS 
1000 
The Department shall track permit violations reported to the Department by law enforcement 
agencies, including data reported to the Department that establish patterns of noncompliance. 
The Department may deny a permit application and may amend, revise, modify, suspend, or 
revoke a permit for violations of the Rules or of permit conditions, in accordance with the 
provisions of §24-4-104 and §24-4-105, C.R.S. If the application for a new permit or a renewal 
permit is denied without a hearing, the Department shall notify the Applicant in writing of such 
action and the ground(s) therefore, and the Applicant has sixty days after the giving of such 
notice in which to request a hearing. 
1001 
The Department may deny a permit application if the Applicant: 
1001.1 Does not comply with the stated criteria, terms, purpose, and requirements of the Rules, 
a prior permit, §42-4-505, C.R.S. or §42-4-510, C.R.S. 
1001.2 Fails to show Good Cause to issue a permit. 
1001.3 Makes a false statement on the application for a Transport Permit. 
1001.4 Fails to provide all applicable information in the form required by the Department. 
1001.5 Fails to submit permit fee with the application.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
43 
1001.6 The Department determines that granting a permit in the particular circumstances 
described in the application will present a public safety hazard, will unreasonably interfere 
with the efficient movement of traffic, or will subject the State Highways to undue 
damage. 
1001.7 Violates any ordinance or resolution of a local authority concerning operation or 
movement of an Extra-legal Vehicle or Load. 
1002 
The Department may revoke or suspend an existing permit as follows: 
1002.1 Upon a finding that the Permittee has violated the stated criteria, terms, purpose, 
requirements and conditions of the permit, the Rules, §42-4-505 C.R.S. or §42-4-510 
C.R.S. 
1002.2 A false statement by the Applicant in the application for a Transport Permit. 
1002.3 Failure by the Permittee to pay applicable ad valorem taxes prior to movement of a used 
manufactured home. 
1002.4 Falsification or misrepresentation by the Permittee of an Emergency situation, in order to 
obtain oral authorization to move an Extra-legal Vehicle or Load. 
1002.5 Where the Department has reasonable grounds to believe and finds that the Permittee 
has been guilty of deliberate and willful violation or that the public health, safety or 
welfare imperatively requires Emergency action as outlined in §24-4-104 (4), C.R.S. 
1002.6 Permittee actions or omissions while operating or moving an Extra-legal Vehicle or Load 
which impair public safety, interfere with the efficient movement of traffic, or damage the 
State Highway. 
1002.7 Violation by the Permittee of any ordinance or resolution of a local authority concerning 
operation or movement of an Extra-legal Vehicle or Load. 
1003 
All appeals and hearings which are required by law regarding denial, suspension, revocation, 
limitation or modification of a permit shall be requested, provided and conducted pursuant to the 
Administrative Procedures Act (APA) §24-4-101 et. seq., C.R.S. 
1004 
Any hearing required by this Chapter shall be presided over by the Chief Engineer of the 
Department or by an Administrative Law Judge appointed pursuant to Part 10 of Article 30 of Title 
24, C.R.S. If a hearing is held before an Administrative Law Judge and if either party is 
dissatisfied with the initial decision of the administrative law judge, then an appeal may be made 
to the Chief Engineer, pursuant to §24-4-105 (14) and (15), C.R.S., within thirty days after the 
date of service of the initial decision. The appeal shall comply with the requirements of §24-4-105, 
C.R.S., and shall specify the findings of fact and conclusions of law the dissatisfied party is 
appealing. All appeals shall be submitted to the CDOT Headquarters Building, addressed to the 
Chief Engineer, Colorado Department of Transportation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
44 
CHAPTER 11 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE 
1100 
The Rules are intended to be consistent with and not be a replacement for the federal 
requirements set forth in “Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act” or the “FAST Act” codified 
at 23 U.S.C. 127 effective as of October 1, 2016, and the regulations set forth under Title 23 of 
the Code of Federal Regulations, effective as of October 1, 2016, and the “Manual on Uniform 
Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD),” FHWA, 2009 edition with Revision Numbers 1 and 2 
Incorporated, dated May 2012, which are hereby incorporated into these Rules by reference, and 
do not include any later amendments. 
1101 
All referenced laws and regulations shall be available for copying for a reasonable charge or for 
public inspection during regular business hours from the Office of Policy and Government 
Relations, Colorado Department of Transportation, 2829 W. Howard Pl., Denver, Colorado 
80204. 
1102 
Copies of the referenced material may be obtained from the following locations: 
1102.1 Copies of the referenced United States Code may be obtained from the following 
address:  
Office of the Law Revision Counsel 
U.S. House of Representatives 
H2-308 Ford House Office Building 
Washington, DC 20515 
(202) 226-2411 
1102.2 Copies of the referenced Code of Federal Regulations may be obtained from the 
following address: 
U.S. Government Publishing Office 
732 North Capitol Street, N.W. 
Washington, DC 20401 
(202) 512-1800 
1102.3 Copies of the MUTCD may be obtained from the following address: 
Office of Transportation Operations 
Federal Highway Administration, Mail Stop: E84-402 
1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E. 
Washington, DC 20590 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Chapters 1, 2, 5 eff. 07/30/2007. 
Entire rule eff. 08/01/2010. 
Rules 100–103, 212, 216, 236, 238, 244, 254, 255, 266, 300.9, 300.10, 300.11, 304.2, 305.4, 305.5, 306, 
309, 401, 401.1.4, 402, 405.7, 408.3.2, 408.3.4, 412, 506.4.5, 600, 601, 602, 603, 608, 609, 
704.4.3.5, 1000 eff. 06/30/2012. Rule 305.6 repealed eff. 06/30/2012. 
Rules 101-103, 300.8, 300.11, 303.4, 303.18-19, 305.1, 306.1, 309, 704, 713.1.1-1.2, 713.2 eff. 
11/14/2015.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-4  
Transportation Commission 
 
45 
Rules 101, 102, 207-209, 236, 407.3, 409.4, 500.5, 500.8, 500.9, 505.1.5-505.1.7, 704.4.3.1, 704.4.3.2, 
704.4.3.6, 712, 1004 eff. 04/30/2017. 
Rule 102, Chapter 11 eff. 04/16/2018. 
Rule 910 repealed emer. rule eff. 03/30/2020; expired 07/28/2020.
