---
id: "2_CCR_601-6"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "2 CCR 601-6"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=1763&fileName=2%20CCR%20601-6&type=pdf"
---

#### 2_CCR_601-6. 2 CCR 601-6

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION 
Transportation Commission 
REQUIREMENTS FOR PILOT ESCORT QUALIFIED TRAINING AND CERTIFICATION PROGRAMS 
2 CCR 601-6 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
1.0  Statement of Basis, Purpose & Statutory Authority 
1.1  Basis and Purpose for Rule 
A Notice of Rulemaking was submitted to the Colorado Secretary of State on February 13, 2007 and 
published in the Colorado Register on March 10, 2007.  The current Rulemaking was initiated to establish 
standards and procedures for third-party instructors to train and certify Colorado pilot escort drivers for 
and on behalf of the Colorado Department of Transportation.  The third party instructors will teach course 
curriculum to comply with guidelines published and promoted by the Commercial Vehicle Safety Alliance, 
the US DOT Federal Highway Administration, and the Specialized Carriers & Rigging Association in its 
“Pilot Car Escort Best Practices Guidelines.”  The Guidelines were published by the US DOT Federal 
Highway Administration in October 2004 as publication “FWHA-HOP-04-028” and endorsed by the 
Western Association of State Highway Transportation Officials Committee on Highway Transport for its 
member states to adopt. 
1.2  Statutory Authority 
Specific statutory authority for the Colorado Transportation Commission to adopt and promulgate Rules 
and Regulations pertaining to Transport Permits for the operation or movement of Extra-Legal Vehicles or 
Loads, is  contained in  § §42-4-510   (1)(b) and 511 (1), C.R.S.  Various permits issued under the law 
require restrictions or conditions for movement which include using Pilot Escort vehicles to accompany 
the movement of loads, in an effort to protect the health, safety and welfare of the traveling public.  
Conditions for requirements prescribed by the Department are statutorily authorized under 42-4-510 (3), 
C.R.S. 
2.0  Definitions 
2.1  “Applicant”  means the person, entity or institution submitting documentation to the Department to 
become a third-party pilot escort instructor. 
2.2  "Department" means the Colorado Department of Transportation. 
2.3  "Permit Office" means the Extra-Legal Permit Office, in the Staff Maintenance & Operations Branch, 
Colorado Department of Transportation. 
2.4  “Pilot Escort Certification Program”  means the training curriculum authorized by the Department and 
presented by a Third Party Instructor or the Department. 
2.5  “Student”  means the individual person who registers for and attends a Pilot Escort Certification 
Program. 
2.6  “Third Party Instructor”  means the entity or person authorized by the Department to conduct the Pilot 
Escort Certification Program and certify students as certified Colorado Pilot Escort operators. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
2 
3.0  Application Process 
3.1  Application to become a Third-Party Instructor shall be made in writing on forms furnished by the 
Department, and shall include all required information about the Applicant. Incomplete 
applications will be returned or denied by the Department. 
3.2  The application submitted to the Department must include the following components. 
3.2.1  A list of instructors shall be submitted which includes resumes of each instructor outlining 
related experience in the pilot escort, heavy haul, academia, or commercial vehicle 
enforcement fields. 
3.2.2  Applicant, except for a sole proprietors, must submit a copy of Applicant's  articles of 
incorporation or other documentation showing whether the business is organized as an 
LLC, LLP, LLLP or LPA.  If the applicant is a governmental or quasi-governmental entity 
no documentation is required under this subparagraph. 
3.2.3  Applicant must submit a business plan  describing how the Colorado classroom curriculum 
will be delivered to students..  The plan must include a one-year schedule of class dates 
and city locations that regionally serves students throughout the state. 
3.2.4  Applicant must submit a sample of the digital image certification card that will be issued to 
students upon successful completion of the coursework and examination.  The card must 
contain the student’s photograph and Department logo.  Applicant must state whether the 
certification card will be issued on the day the student completes prerequisite information, 
classroom work, and passes the examination, or if it will be mailed within 3 business days 
to the student upon completion of all prerequisite information, classroom work, and 
passing of the examination. 
3.2.5  Applicant must submit procedural guidelines that outline security measures implemented to 
safeguard student's personal information. 
3.2.6  Copies of all course curriculum and testing materials must be submitted. These materials 
will be reviewed and approved by the Department to ensure that all requirements are 
met. An overview of course curriculum requirements is outlined in part 4.0 of this rule. 
3.2.7  Applicant must document procedures that will be followed to verify student's Motor Vehicle 
Record (MVR) acceptability and the collection of insurance forms submitted by the 
student at the time of examination. 
3.2.7.1  Applicant must document process for notifying students either prior to class or 
when they call in to sign up that they will need to bring the MVR and proof of 
insurance with them to the class. 
3.2.7.2  Applicant must document process for ensuring the students will not be certified 
until all of this documentation is provided to the Applicant. 
3.2.7.3  Applicant must submit a written statement that Applicant shall only accept an 
original MVR certification record that is current within 30 days of classroom 
instruction and proof of insurance from an insurance provider in the amount and 
terms specified in Chapter 5 section D. 4 of 2 CCR 601-4, “Rules and 
Regulations pertaining to Transport Permits for the Movement of Extra-Legal 
Vehicles or Loads.”

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
3 
4.0  Pilot Escort Certification Program Curriculum Requirements 
4.1  Course curriculums used to certify pilot escort drivers to operate in Colorado for a period of four years 
must cover the topics outlined in this section 4.0.  However, more extensive course curriculum 
descriptions are outlined in the application package that can be obtained on the Department’s 
website at www.dot.state.co.us/truckpermits/  or by contacting the Permit Office at (303) 757-
9539. 
4.2  The Pilot Escort Certification Program must discuss student liability requirements applicable to 
piloting for an Extra-legal Vehicle or Load, responsibilities of the student when escorting an Extra-
legal Vehicle or Load, and Pilot Escort Vehicle procedures as described in Chapter 5 of 2 CCR 
601-4, “Rules and Regulations pertaining to Transport Permits for the Movement of Extra-Legal 
Vehicles or Loads.”  
4.3  The Pilot Escort Certification Program must include requirements of applicable traffic laws, as 
described in § 42-4-101  to § 42-4-1717,   C.R.S., and in the Colorado Driver's Manual available 
at each office of the Colorado Department of Motor Vehicles. 
4.4  The Pilot Escort Certification Program must discuss the operator flagging and traffic control, as 
described in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices ("M.U.T.C.D.") authorized  under  
§42-4-712,   C.R.S. 
4.5  Oversize Overweight load movement, coordination, planning and communication requirements and 
best practices. 
4.6  The Pilot Escort Certification Program must include pilot escort vehicle positioning and situational 
training. 
4.7  The Pilot Escort Certification Program must include Rail grade crossing safety. 
4.8  The Pilot Escort Certification Program must include Routing techniques, including pre-trip surveys. 
4.9  The Pilot Escort Certification Program must include Insurance coverage requirements and liability 
issues. 
5.0  Testing Materials and Procedures 
5.1  Testing materials shall be submitted to the Permit Office for approval as part of application. 
5.2  Testing materials should be structured to include a minimum of a 50 question exam. 
5.3  A minimum of two different examinations shall be submitted and used randomly during the instruction 
of the course. 
5.4  Examinations shall be structured as follows: 
5.4.1  Not less than 15 fill in the blank; 
5.4.2  Not less than 15 Multiple choice; 
5.4.3  Not less than 15 True/False; 
5.4.4  Not less than 8 questions dealing with safety equipment; 
5.4.5  Not less than 8 questions dealing with the duties of pilot escort drivers;

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
4 
5.4.6  Not less than 6 questions dealing maintenance of equipment; 
5.4.7  Not less than 6 questions dealing with items that must be collected in a route survey. 
5.5  Testing materials must demonstrate an explanation of how grading of examinations will be 
administered. 
5.6  Applicants must provide an acknowledgement that students must pass with an 80% score to be 
certified.  Students who do not pass with an 80% score must be allowed to retake the 
examination on the same day for no additional cost. 
5.7  Applicants must provide  a written statement that students receiving less than 80% score will be 
allowed to attend one additional class without additional cost except for reimbursement of any 
additional materials and postage costs. 
5.8  Applicants must provide the Department with a list of students that attended the course and the 
corresponding grade received, within five business days of the completion of the course.  The list 
of students and grades must be sent to the Department in an electronic file format prescribed by 
the Department in the application packet. 
6.0  Student Recertification Procedures 
6.1  Applicant shall provide means in which a student who has been previously certified under this rule in 
Colorado as a Pilot Escort driver to be recertified for one additional four-year period either by US 
mail or in electronic format via the Internet by taking an examination without attending classroom 
instruction for the recertification. 
6.2  Applicant shall submit written procedures documenting the process for the proctoring of the 
examination that will allow the student to recertify. The examination for recertification shall not be 
a duplicate of the examination used during the initial certification process and should be 
constructed to educate the student on updates pertaining to pilot certification and legal 
requirements. 
6.3  To be recertified a student must provide a current Motor Vehicle Record and proof of valid insurance 
to the same standards as upon initial certification.  Applicant must indicate what process will be 
used to verify a student’s current Motor Vehicle Record and the collection of insurance forms 
submitted by the student at the time of recertification. 
6.4  Applicant shall submit written procedures documenting the process for allowing applicant's receiving 
less than 80% score to be allowed to retake the certification exam one additional time without 
attending a class.  Applicant may not charge an additional fee to retake the examination one 
additional time. 
6.5  Applicant shall submit written procedures documenting the process for allowing students receiving 
less than 80% score to be allowed to attend one additional class without additional cost except for 
reimbursement of any additional materials and postage costs. 
6.6  It will be the responsibility of the Applicant to provide to the Department within five business days of 
the date of recertification.a list of individuals who have applied for recertification along with the 
corresponding grade. 
6.7  A list of students who fail to recertify must be submitted quarterly in a separate file which lists the 
student’s name, address, phone number, type of examination failed (written or on-line), date 
failed, and score received.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
5 
7.0  Training Costs 
7.1  Costs associated with providing classroom instruction, materials, testing and credentialing will be the 
responsibility of the Applicant. These costs may be passed on to the students for certification in 
the form of tuition determined by the Applicant based on Applicant’s business model and 
expenses. 
7.2  A cost proposal and a maximum course fee schedule must be submitted to the Department for 
approval as part of the application process. 
7.3  The Department has the right to review the tuition costs being charged to students for initial 
certification or recertification at any time. 
8.0  Suspension or Revocation of Pilot Escort Training Program 
8.1  The Department may suspend or revoke the Applicant's ability to provide services if the Applicant 
fails to meet conditions and requirements set forth under this rule. If an Applicant has its authority 
to provide services revoked or suspended, the Applicant may appeal the decision. 
9.0  Appeal Process 
9.1  When an Applicant is denied or an Applicant's authority is revoked or suspended, the Applicant may 
file an appeal.  The appeal shall be directed in writing to the Chief Engineer of the Department at 
Colorado Department of Transportation, 4201 East Arkansas Avenue, Denver, CO  80222.  Any 
hearing required by this Chapter shall be presided over by the Chief Engineer of the Department 
or by an Administrative Law Judge appointed pursuant to Part 10 of Article 30 of Title 24, C.R.S.  
If a hearing is held before an Administrative Law Judge and if either party is dissatisfied with the 
initial decision of the administrative law judge, then an appeal may be made to the Chief 
Engineer, pursuant to  § 24-4-105 (14) and (15), C.R.S., within thirty days after the date of service 
of the initial decision.  The appeal shall comply with the requirements of  § 24-4-105, C.R.S., and 
shall specify the findings of fact and conclusions of law the dissatisfied party is appealing. A ruling 
of the Chief Engineer shall be considered a final agency action under the Colorado Administrative 
Procedures Act. 
10.0  Review of the Pilot Escort Certification Program 
10.1  The Department has the right to monitor classroom instruction, review all rates  or fees,   
procedures, and the certification process established by the applicant whenever the Department 
deems it necessary to insure compliance with this rule. 
10.2  A review of rates or fees charged students shall be conducted on an annual basis. 
11.0  Record Retention and Data Management Requirements 
11.1  Authorized Applicant’s for Pilot Escort Certification Programs shall maintain the following 
certification and recertification records for a period of seven years: 
11.1.1  Student's name, company name (if any), business address, phone number and other 
contact information. 
11.1.2  Driver's license number, original MVR and original proof of insurance information from 
insurance provider. 
11.1.3  Copy of each student’s written exam or score.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
6 
11.1.4  Copy of certification card, including photo. 
11.1.5  Training and expiration dates on all students. 
11.1.6  All lists of recertification and expiration dates. 
11.1.7  All lists of instructors, copy of their resumes and date of classroom instruction and/or 
recertification dates providing services. 
11.2  Records may be scanned and kept electronically provided applicant has necessary data backup 
and retrieval procedures. 
11.3  The Department has the right to review any records retained, during reasonable business hours, 
whenever the Department deems it necessary to insure compliance with this rule. 
11.4  The loss, mutilation or destruction of any records which an Applicant is required to maintain, must 
be immediately reported by the applicant by affidavit stating: 
11.4.1  The date such records were lost, mutilated, or destroyed; and 
11.4.2  The circumstances involving how such loss occurred. 
11.5  Upon completion of each training course or recertification a list of each student shall be 
electronically uploaded to the Permit Office or its authorized agent within five business days of 
completion of course, as described in material sent to Applicants.  Authorized Applicants will be 
provided additional information regarding upload and data set requirements when such methods 
change. 
11.6  All records, including computerized records, must be provided to the Department when requested 
for the purpose of an audit or review of the entities/institution's records.  Failure to provide all 
records as requested by the Department is a violation of this rule. 
11.7  Applicant's shall maintain accurate, up to date records.  Failure to do so is a violation of this rule. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 07/30/2007.
