---
id: "2_CCR_405-4"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "400 - Registration Information Required on Application"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=11801&fileName=2%20CCR%20405-4&type=pdf"
---

#### 2_CCR_405-4. 400 - Registration Information Required on Application

1 
DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
CHAPTER P-4 - SNOWMOBILE REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-4 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
ARTICLE I - Pursuant to the authority vested in the Parks and Wildlife Commission by Article 14 of 
Title 33, C.R.S., the following regulations concerning required equipment and the registration of 
snowmobiles are hereby adopted. 
# 400 - Registration Information Required on Application 
a. 
Information to be furnished by applicant: 
1. 
Snowmobile make 
2. 
Snowmobile model 
3. 
Snowmobile frame number 
4. 
Model year 
5. 
Cubic centimeters displacement 
6. 
Date purchased 
7. 
Proof of ownership. Acceptable proof of ownership forms include: 
(a) 
Bill of sale that includes both the seller and buyer's printed names and 
signatures, the vessel/vehicle identification number (if any), the vessel/vehicle 
make, model and year (if known) and the date of the sale; 
(b) 
Previous registration certificate issued by a governmental entity that lists the 
applicant as registered owner; 
(c) 
Manufacturers Certificate of Origin (MCO)/Manufacturer Statement of Origin 
(MSO); 
(d) 
Certificate of Title; 
(e) 
Any court issued document proving ownership; 
(f) 
A collection of personal property by affidavit form pursuant to 15-12-1201, 
C.R.S.; or 
(g) 
A physical inspection form completed by a CPW agent. 
8. 
Name and address of applicant 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-4 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
2 
9. 
Date of birth 
10. 
How machine is used 
b. 
Additional information set forth on the registration certificate: 
1. 
Registration number 
2. 
Expiration date of registration 
3. 
Notice to owner of procedure to follow when owner changes address 
4. 
Notice to owner of procedure to follow when machine is transferred, destroyed, 
abandoned, or permanently removed from the state 
5. 
Notice to owner that the operator must carry the certificate of registration while operating 
the snowmobile 
c. 
Pending registration of a snowmobile, a temporary registration or a notarized and dated bill of 
sale, in the possession of the operator, permits the operator of the newly purchased snowmobile 
to operate the snowmobile in the State of Colorado for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days 
from date of purchase. 
# 401 - Display of Validation Decal 
a. 
The validation decals shall be permanently affixed on each side of the upper half of the cowling of 
the machine. 
b. 
Dealers and manufacturers may obtain up to 25 sets of validation decals and shall permanently 
affix them on each side of the upper half of the cowling of the machine. 
# 402 - Display of Snowmobile Permits 
a. 
When owners or operators of snowmobiles identified in C.R.S. 33-14-121 are required to obtain 
and display snowmobile permits, such permits shall be displayed as follows: 
1. 
The permit shall be affixed on the left upper half of the cowling of the machine. 
2. 
Printed non-sticker permits must be carried on the machine or on the operator’s person 
and shall, upon demand of any peace officer authorized to enforce this law, produce the 
snowmobile permit for inspection. 
# 403 - Safety Equipment 
a. 
Except as provided in section 33-14-114 C.R.S., no person shall operate a snowmobile in this 
state, unless: 
1. 
The snowmobile is equipped with a muffler that is properly maintained and in good 
working order. 
2. 
The muffler must conform to noise abatement standards set forth in 25-12-110, C.R.S., 
as amended.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 405-4 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
 
3 
b. 
No snowmobile shall be operated between the hours of sunset and sunrise unless it is equipped 
with at least one head lamp having a minimum candlepower of sufficient intensity to reveal 
persons and objects at a distance of at least 100 feet ahead under normal atmospheric 
conditions. Such head lamp shall be so aimed that glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of 
operators in oncoming vehicles. 
c. 
No snowmobile shall be operated between the hours of sunset and sunrise unless it is equipped 
with at least one red tail lamp, having a minimum candlepower of sufficient intensity to exhibit a 
red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear under normal atmospheric 
conditions. 
d. 
No snowmobile shall be operated unless it is equipped with brakes adequate to control the 
movement of, to stop, and to hold the snowmobile under any conditions of operations. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
Chapters of 2 CCR 405-1 have been recodified effective 05/01/2013. See list below. Versions prior to 
05/01/2013 can be found in 2 CCR 405-1. Prior versions can be accessed from the All Versions list on the 
rule’s current version page. 
Chapter 1 has been recodified as 2 CCR 405-1, CHAPTER P-1 - PARKS AND OUTDOOR 
RECREATION LANDS. 
Chapter 2 has been recodified as 2 CCR 405-2, CHAPTER P-2 - BOATING. 
Chapter 3 has been recodified as 2 CCR 405-3, CHAPTER P-3 - RIVER OUTFITTERS. 
Chapter 4 has been recodified as 2 CCR 405-4, CHAPTER P-4 - SNOWMOBILE REGULATIONS. 
Chapter 5 has been recodified as 2 CCR 405-5, CHAPTER P-5 - OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE 
REGULATIONS. 
Chapter 6 has been recodified as 2 CCR 405-6, CHAPTER P-6 - PROCEDURAL RULES [Repealed eff. 
11/01/2017]. 
Chapter 7 has been recodified as 2 CCR 405-7, CHAPTER P-7 - PASSES, PERMITS AND 
REGISTRATIONS. 
Chapter 8 has been recodified as 2 CCR 405-8, CHAPTER P-8 - AQUATIC NUISANCE SPECIES (ANS). 
History 
Rules #400.c, #402.a eff. 01/01/2015. 
Rule #400.a.7 eff. 05/01/2016. 
Rules #402-403 eff. 01/01/2025.
