---
id: "2_CCR_406-7"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "700 Definitions"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12520&fileName=2%20CCR%20406-7&type=pdf"
---

#### 2_CCR_406-7. 700 Definitions

1 
Department of Natural Resources 
Colorado Parks and Wildlife 
CHAPTER W-7 – HERPETOFAUNA 
2 CCR 406-7 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
ARTICLE I – General Provisions 
#700 Definitions 
As used in this Chapter: 
A. 
“Approved facility” means a licensed animal shelter or pet animal rescue as 
defined in section 35-80-102, C.R.S. 
B. 
“Herpetofauna” means reptile or amphibian. 
C. 
“Progeny” means offspring or descendant. 
D. 
“Propagate” means to cause the production of offspring in captivity. 
E. 
“Rehome” means to transfer herpetofauna to another person without monetary or 
other compensation, except that an approved facility may collect a reasonable 
rehoming fee. 
F. 
“Resident” has the meaning codified in section 33-1-102, C.R.S. 
G. 
“Tropical and subtropical region” means the region between 26.0 degrees north 
latitude and 26.0 degrees south latitude. 
#701 Prohibition 
A. 
Except as provided in this chapter, Chapter W-1 (governing fishing), Chapter W-3 
(governing small game), Chapter W-10 (governing nongame, threatened, and 
endangered wildlife), Chapter W-11 (governing wildlife parks), Chapter W-13 
(governing scientific collection), Chapter W-14 (governing wildlife rehabilitation), 
title 33, C.R.S. and federal law, it is unlawful for any person to take, possess, 
sell, offer for sale, purchase, import, export, transport, or release any live 
herpetofauna in Colorado. 
B. 
This prohibition does not apply to: 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 406-7 
Chapter W-7_Herpetofauna 
 
2 
1. 
the Cheyenne Mountain Zoological Society, Denver Zoological 
Foundation, Landry’s Downtown Aquarium, or Pueblo Zoological Society; 
or 
2. 
Division employees acting within the scope of their employment. 
ARTICLE II – Exceptions 
#702 Importation and Exportation 
A. 
A person may import a species listed in Appendix A or Appendix B as 
authorized by a valid importation license and provided a valid health certificate 
accompanies the shipment. The importation license and health certificate 
requirements may be satisfied by a valid Certificate of Veterinary Inspection with 
an entry permit number from the Colorado Department of Agriculture. 
B. 
A person may export a species listed in Appendix A, Appendix B, or #707 in 
accordance with federal, state, and foreign law. 
#703 Possession, Sale, Purchase, and Transportation 
A. 
A person may possess, propagate, sell, offer for sale, purchase, or transport a 
species listed in Appendix A without a license or documentation. 
B. 
A person may possess, propagate, sell, offer for sale, purchase, or transport a 
species listed in Appendix B only if the person has documentation in the form of 
a receipt or bill of sale, a donation certificate, a Certificate of Veterinary 
Inspection used for importation, or documentation that the animal was 
propagated from lawfully possessed parents, that reasonably identifies the 
animal possessed, sold, offered for sale, purchased, or transported. 
C. 
A person who possesses a species listed in Appendix B on May 1, 2026, may 
satisfy the documentation requirement in subsection B of this rule by completing 
a CPW Legacy Report on a form provided by the Division. 
#704 Take, Possession, and Transportation of Native Herpetofauna 
A. 
A natural person may take from the wild, possess, and transport within Colorado, 
but not propagate, a species listed in Appendix C only as authorized by a valid 
Resident Herpetofauna Collection and Possession License. 
B. 
Resident Herpetofauna Collection and Possession License 
1. 
The Division may issue a Resident Herpetofauna Collection and 
Possession License that authorizes a Colorado resident to capture from 
the wild in Colorado, possess, and transport within Colorado any species 
listed in Appendix C.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 406-7 
Chapter W-7_Herpetofauna 
 
3 
2. 
Application Requirements 
a. 
The applicant must be a Colorado resident. 
b. 
The applicant must complete a herpetofauna education course 
provided by the Division with a score of 75% or higher within the 
twelve months prior to submitting the application. 
c. 
The applicant must apply online on a form provided by the Division. 
d. 
The application must include payment in the amount listed in 
Chapter W-0 in Appendix F. Applicants under the age of 16 shall be 
fee-exempt. 
3. 
An application may be denied for the following reasons: 
a. 
the application requirements in regulation #704.B.2 of this rule are 
not satisfied; 
b. 
the application is incomplete; 
c. 
the applicant violated any provision of a prior Resident 
Herpetofauna Collection and Possession License; 
d. 
the applicant has been convicted of violating any provision of part 2 
of article 9 of title 18, C.R.S. (cruelty to animals); 
e. 
the Division finds denial necessary to avoid substantial danger to 
public health and safety; or 
f. 
the Division finds denial necessary to further the purposes of 
articles 1 to 6 of title 33, C.R.S. 
4. 
If an application is denied, the Division will notify the applicant in writing 
and state the reasons for denial. 
5. 
License Conditions 
a. 
A Resident Herpetofauna Collection and Possession License shall 
include the following conditions: 
i. 
the license is valid only when the license holder is a 
Colorado resident; 
ii. 
the license is valid for no more than three years and will 
expire on March 31 of the expiration year;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 406-7 
Chapter W-7_Herpetofauna 
 
4 
iii. 
the license holder may take a combined total of four 
individuals from all species listed in Appendix C in any 
license year; 
iv. 
the license holder may take species listed in Appendix C 
only by hand, dip net, handheld loop, snake hook, or snake 
tong; 
v. 
the license holder must satisfy the reporting and 
recordkeeping requirements in subsection 9 of this rule; 
vi. 
at any one time, the license holder may possess a combined 
maximum of 12 individuals from Appendix C or regulation 
#704.B.7 (governing legacy possession), including any 
progeny resulting from breeding that occurred in the wild 
prior to collection; 
vii. 
the license holder must follow generally accepted husbandry 
practices for any animal possessed under the license, 
including: 
(1) 
ensuring the animal receives appropriate veterinary 
care; 
(2) 
housing the animal in a safe, secure, and 
appropriately sized enclosure; 
(3) 
providing an appropriate temperature, thermal 
gradient, and humidity level for the animal; and 
(4) 
ensuring the animal receives adequate food and 
water; 
viii. 
and the license holder may dispose of a species listed in 
Appendix C only as provided in subsection 8 of this rule. 
b. 
A Resident Herpetofauna Collection and Possession License may 
include any additional condition the Division finds will further the 
purposes of articles 1 to 6 of title 33, C.R.S., or finds necessary to 
ensure the welfare of animals possessed under the license. 
6. 
License Suspension or Revocation 
a. 
The Division may suspend or revoke a Resident Herpetofauna 
Collection and Possession License for the following reasons: 
i. 
the license holder submitted an application with false 
information;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 406-7 
Chapter W-7_Herpetofauna 
 
5 
ii. 
the license holder violated any provision of the license; 
iii. 
the license holder was convicted of violating any provision of 
articles 1 to 6 of title 33, C.R.S., after the license was issued; 
iv. 
the license holder was convicted of violating any provision of 
part 2 of article 9 of title 18, C.R.S. (cruelty to animals), after 
the license was issued; 
v. 
the Division finds suspension or revocation reasonably 
necessary to avoid substantial danger to public health, 
safety, or welfare; 
vi. 
the Division finds suspension or revocation reasonably 
necessary to further the purposes of articles 1 to 6 of title 33, 
C.R.S.; or 
vii. 
the Division finds the license holder has been guilty of a 
deliberate and willful violation. 
b. 
If a Resident Herpetofauna Collection License is suspended or 
revoked, the Division will notify the applicant in writing and state the 
reasons for the suspension or revocation. 
7. 
Legacy Possession 
a. 
A person who lawfully possesses a species listed in Appendix C, 
hog-nosed snake, lesser earless lizard, ornate box turtle, painted 
turtle, or snapping turtle legally collected on or prior to May 1, 2026, 
may: 
i. 
continue to possess and transport the animal within the state 
for the life of the animal if, by July 30, 2026, the person 
completes a CPW Legacy Report online on a form provided 
by the Division; or 
ii. 
dispose of the animal as provided in subsection 8 of this rule 
by July 30, 2026. 
8. 
Disposition 
a. 
A person may lawfully dispose of a species listed in Appendix C 
only by rehoming the animal to a person with a valid Resident 
Herpetofauna Collection and Possession License or an approved 
facility. 
9. 
Reporting

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 406-7 
Chapter W-7_Herpetofauna 
 
6 
a. 
A Resident Herpetofauna Collection and Possession License 
holder must report any of the following events online using CPW’s 
Herpetofauna Reporting App within seven days: 
i. 
the license holder takes a species listed in Appendix C or 
otherwise acquires a species listed in Appendix C that was 
taken from the wild in Colorado; 
ii. 
the license holder rehomes or otherwise transfers a species 
listed in Appendix C; 
iii. 
a species listed in Appendix C in the license holder’s 
possession dies, escapes captivity, or is lost or stolen. 
b. 
The report required by subsection 9.a of this rule shall include the 
following information: 
i. 
the license holder’s Customer Identification Number (CID) 
and license number; 
ii. 
the date of the take or acquisition; 
iii. 
the species taken or acquired; 
iv. 
the location of any take; 
v. 
a photo of the animal taken or acquired; 
vi. 
any CPW Wildlife Identification Number; and 
vii. 
any other information the Division finds will further the 
purposes of articles 1 to 6 of title 33, C.R.S. 
c. 
A Resident Herpetofauna Collection and Possession License 
holder shall keep a copy of all reports required by subsection 9 of 
this section for as long as the animal described in the report 
remains in the license holder’s possession and five years 
thereafter. 
C. 
Notwithstanding subsections A and B of this rule, an approved facility may 
possess and transport within Colorado a species listed in Appendix C for the 
purpose of rehoming the species to the holder of a valid Resident Herpetofauna 
Collection and Possession License. 
#705 Herping 
A natural person may take and temporarily possess any wild herpetofauna not 
designated an endangered species or threatened species under the Endangered

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 406-7 
Chapter W-7_Herpetofauna 
 
7 
Species Act, 16 U.S.C. § 1531, et seq., or Nongame, Endangered, or Threatened 
Wildlife and Rare Plant Conservation Act, § 33-2-101, C.R.S., et seq., except prairie 
rattlesnakes (Crotalus viridis), midget faded rattlesnakes (Crotalus oreganus concolor), 
or desert massasaugas (Sistrurus tergeminus) for the limited purpose of identification or 
photography, provided the animal is not moved from the location it was taken and is 
released unharmed within 20 minutes. 
#706 Relocation 
A. 
A natural person may move any wild herpetofauna for the safety of the animal: 
1. 
from a road, trail, or railway to an unconfined, adjacent location without 
harming the animal; or 
2. 
from a house, building, or associated structure to an unconfined, adjacent 
location without harming the animal. 
B. 
A natural person or the person’s agent may take and immediately transport and 
release unharmed any wild herpetofauna not designated an endangered species 
or threatened species under the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. § 1531, et 
seq., or Nongame, Endangered, or Threatened Wildlife and Rare Plant 
Conservation Act, § 33-2-101, C.R.S., et seq., if: 
1. 
the animal has caused substantial property damage or poses a substantial 
threat to the life or health of any person or domestic animal; 
2. 
the animal is taken on land the person owns or leases; 
3. 
the animal is released no more than two miles from the location it was 
captured unless authorized by the Division; and 
4. 
the animal is released on land the person owns or leases or on land where 
the person has permission to release the animal. 
#707 Other legacy possession 
A person who lawfully possesses a Mexican beaded lizard (Heloderma horridum) or 
Gila monster (Heloderma suspectum) in Colorado on or before May 1, 2026, may: 
A. 
continue to possess and transport, but not propagate, the animal within Colorado 
for the remainder of the animal’s life if, by July 30, 2026, the person completes a 
CPW Legacy Report online on a form provided by the Division; 
B. 
rehome the animal to an authorized facility; or 
C. 
export the animal in accordance with the laws of the receiving country, province, 
or state.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 406-7 
Chapter W-7_Herpetofauna 
 
8 
#708 Invasive herpetofauna 
A. 
The following invasive herpetofauna are detrimental to Colorado wildlife and 
habitat: 
1. 
Red-eared slider (Trachemys scripta elegans) 
2. 
Bullfrogs (Lithobates catesbeianus) 
B. 
A natural person may take an unlimited number of invasive herpetofauna from 
the wild year-round using the following methods: 
1. 
Any invasive herpetofauna: artificial light and night vision equipment. 
2. 
Red-eared slider: hand or dip net. 
3. 
Bullfrog: hand, dip net, or gig. 
C. 
Except as provided in Chapter W-1 or regulation #708.C, any invasive 
herpetofauna taken from the wild must be immediately killed and may not be 
possessed, transported, or exported alive. 
1. 
A person may possess, transport, or export, but not propagate, a red-
eared slider taken from the wild in Colorado for the life of the animal. 
APPENDIX A – Species that may be possessed, propagated, sold, offered for sale, 
purchased, or transported without a license or documentation under #703.A. 
A. 
Any species of snake native only to the tropical and subtropical region from the 
following families: 
1. 
Acrochordidae (file and elephant trunk snakes) 
2. 
Aniliidae (pipe snakes) 
3. 
Boidae (giant snakes) 
4. 
Colubridae (modern snakes) except the genera Ahaetulla (vine/whip 
snakes), Boiga (cat snakes), Dispholidus (boomslangs), Rhabdophis 
(keelbacks), Thelotornis (twig snakes), or Hydrodynastes 
5. 
Pythonidae (giant snakes) 
6. 
Uropeltidae (shield-tailed snakes) 
7. 
Xenopeltidae (sunbeam snakes) 
B. 
Any species of lizard native only to the tropical and subtropical region from the 
following families:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 406-7 
Chapter W-7_Herpetofauna 
 
9 
1. 
Agamidae (chisel-teeth lizards) 
2. 
Anelytropsidae (snake lizards) 
3. 
Anguidae (glass and alligator lizards) 
4. 
Chamaeleonidae (chameleons) 
5. 
Cordylidae (girdle-tailed lizards) 
6. 
Corytophanidae (casquehead lizards) 
7. 
Crotaphytidae (collared and leopard lizards) 
8. 
Dactyloidae (anoles), except the Brown anole (Anolis sagrei) 
9. 
Dibamidae (blind lizards) 
10. 
Feyliniidae (African snake skinks) 
11. 
Iguanidae (iguanas) 
12. 
Lacertidae (wall lizards) 
13. 
Lanthanotidae (earless monitor) 
14. 
Phrynosomatidae (earless, spiny, and horned lizards) 
15. 
Pygopodidae (snake lizards) 
16. 
Scincidae (skinks) 
17. 
Teiidae (whiptail) 
18. 
Tropiduridae (neotropical ground lizards) 
19. 
Varanidae (monitor lizard) 
20. 
Xantusiidae (night lizard) 
21. 
Xenosauridae (knob-scaled lizards) 
C. 
Any species of turtle native only to the tropical and subtropical region from the 
following families: 
1. 
Carettochelyidae (New Guinea softshell turtles) 
2. 
Dermatemydidae (Central American river turtles) 
3. 
Kinosternidae (mud and musk turtles)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 406-7 
Chapter W-7_Herpetofauna 
 
10 
4. 
Testudinidae (tortoises) 
5. 
Trionychidae (soft-shelled turtles) 
D. 
Any species of frog or toad native only to the tropical and subtropical regions 
from the following families: 
1. 
Bufonidae (true toads), except the Rhinella marina (cane toad) 
2. 
Centrolenidae (glass frogs) 
3. 
Dendrobatidae (poison dart frogs) 
4. 
Hylidae (tree frogs) 
5. 
Leptodactylidae (tropical frogs) 
6. 
Microhylidae (narrow-mouthed toads) 
7. 
Pelobatidae (spadefoot toads) 
8. 
Pelodytidae (spadefoot toads) 
9. 
Phrynomeridae (snake-necked frogs) 
10. 
Pipidae (clawed frogs, Surinam toads) 
11. 
Pseudidae (Harlequin frogs) 
12. 
Ranidae (true frogs) 
13. 
Rhacophoridae (flying frogs) 
14. 
Rhinophrynidae (cone-nosed toads) 
E. 
Other Species: 
1. 
Oriental fire-bellied toad (Bombina orientalis) 
2. 
Any species from the order Gymnophiona (caecilians) 
3. 
Any species from the order Urodela (salamanders and newts) except tiger 
salamanders (Ambystoma tigrinum/mavortium) 
4. 
Any species from the suborder Amphisbaenia (worm lizards) 
5. 
Any species from the subfamily Caimaninae (caimans)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 406-7 
Chapter W-7_Herpetofauna 
 
11 
6. 
Any species from the families Diplodactylidae (eyelash geckos), 
Eublepharidae (eyelid geckos), or Gekkonidae (geckos) except 
Mediterranean house geckos (Hemidactylus turcicus) 
APPENDIX B – Species that may be possessed, sold, offered for sale, purchased, 
or transported with documentation under #703.B. 
A. 
Any captive-bred species from the genus Pantherophis (cornsnakes, ratsnakes, 
and foxsnakes) except the Great Plains ratsnake (Pantherophis emoryi) 
B. 
Any captive-bred species from the genus Lampropeltis (kingsnakes and 
milksnakes) except the Western milksnakes (Lampropeltis gentilis/Lampropeltis 
triangulum gentilis) and Speckled kingsnake (Lampropeltis 
holbrooki/Lampropeltis getula holbrooki) 
C. 
Any captive-bred species from the genus Heterodon except the Eastern hog-
nosed snake (Heterodon platirhinos), Lystrophis, or Leioheterodon (hognose 
snakes) 
APPENDIX C – Species that may be captured from the wild within Colorado, 
possessed, and transported within Colorado as provided by a valid Resident 
Herpetofauna Collection and Possession License under #704. 
A. 
Plains spadefoot (Spea bombifrons) 
B. 
Woodhouse’s toad (Anaxyrus woodhousii) 
C. 
Boreal chorus frog (Pseudacris maculata) 
D. 
Common sagebrush lizard (Sceloporus graciosus) 
E. 
Ornate tree lizard (Urosaurus ornatus) 
F. 
Common side-blotched lizard (Uta stansburiana) 
G. 
Prairie lizard (Sceloperus consobrinus) 
H. 
Plateau fence lizard (Sceloporus tristichus) 
I. 
Gophersnake/Bullsnake (Pituophis catenifer deserticola/sayi) 
J. 
Western tiger salamander (Ambystoma mavortium) 
K. 
Wandering gartersnake (Thamnophis elegans vagrans) 
L. 
Plains gartersnake (Thamnophis radix) 
M. 
Tiger whiptail (Aspidoscelis tigris)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 406-7 
Chapter W-7_Herpetofauna 
 
12 
N. 
North American racer (Coluber constrictor)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
1 CCR 406-7 
Chapter W-7_Herpetofauna 
 
13 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
# 901 A. 178. eff. 04/30/07. 
Entire Rule eff. 07/01/2007. 
#903-26 - #903-226, Appendix B-2 eff. 08/01/2007. 
#901.A.22, #901.A.111, #901.A.127, #901.A.166 eff. 08/30/2007. 
#901.A.128 eff. 10/30/2007. 
Emer. Rule Article III-#904 eff. 03/13/2008. 
#900-A, #900-B, #901-A eff. 05/01/2008. 
Emer. Rule Article IV #904 eff. 06/13/2008. 
Entire Rule eff. 7/31/2008. 
#901.A eff. 09/01/2008. 
#900 D; #902 eff. 03/02/2009. 
Chapter 9 recodified as 2 CCR 406-9 on 04/01/2009. 
New rule eff. 05/01/2026.
