---
id: "2_CCR_601-18"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1233, which is available from the Department’s regional offices or online. The"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=9244&fileName=2%20CCR%20601-18&type=pdf"
---

#### 2_CCR_601-18. 1233, which is available from the Department’s regional offices or online. The

1 
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION 
Transportation Commission 
STATE HIGHWAY UTILITY ACCOMMODATION CODE 
2 CCR 601-18 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
1.0 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
1.1 
Statement of Basis 
1.1.1 
The basis of the State Highway Utility Accommodation Code (Code) is the need to serve the 
public good through the safe, efficient and effective joint utilization of State Highway Right-of-Way 
(SH ROW) for both transportation and utility purposes. 
1.1.2 
The Code is necessary to establish a uniform and consistent statewide process for 
accommodating utilities within SH ROW by means of reasonable regulations to ensure that such 
accommodations do not adversely affect the highway or traffic safety, or otherwise impair the 
operation, aesthetic quality or maintenance of the transportation facility, or conflict with applicable 
law. 
1.1.3 
Utility facilities provide an essential service to the general public, but every accommodation must 
be compatible with and not adversely affect the existing and future needs of the transportation 
facility. 
1.1.4 
The Code is being implemented in an effort to conserve limited public resources, preserve future 
options, and minimize conflicts between highway and utility facilities. The reasonable regulations 
in the Code ensure such accommodations. 
1.1.5 
As part of the regulatory review process, the Colorado Department of Transportation 
(Department) has conducted a thorough review of these rules, and where possible has eliminated 
unnecessary language, and has updated the rules based on changes in law or practice. 
1.2 
Specific Statutory Authority 
1.2.1 
§ 43-1-225(1), C.R.S., gives the Transportation Commission (Commission) authority to make 
reasonable regulations for accommodation of certain utilities in, on, along, over, across, through, 
or under SH ROW. Also, the Department has responsibility and authority under §§ 43-1-110 and 
43-2-102, C.R.S., for the design, construction, improvement, maintenance and management of 
the State highway system and SH ROW. The Department also has authority to implement 
procedures for the performance of utility relocation work pursuant to § 43-1-1409(1)(b), C.R.S. § 
43-1-106(8)(k), C.R.S., further authorizes the Commission to make all necessary and reasonable 
regulations with respect to the responsibilities of the Department for the State highway system. 
Finally, the Commission has authority under the police power to regulate the accommodation of 
utility facilities within SH ROW to the extent that regulation is necessary to protect the public 
safety and welfare. 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
2 
1.2.2 
While utilities have certain statutory authority to place their facilities within SH ROW, §§ 32-1-
1006(1)(c), 32-4-406(1), 32-4-510(1), 38-5-101, and 38-5.5-103(1), C.R.S., that authority is 
subject to reasonable regulation by the Department to ensure that the facilities do not 
unreasonably impair transportation purposes. While local agencies have certain authority to allow 
utilities in streets that are also SH ROW pursuant to §§ 43-2-135(1), 31-15-702(1), and 38-5-108, 
C.R.S. and also Article XXV of the Colorado Constitution, that authority must be construed 
harmoniously with the primary authority of the Commission and the Department to regulate the 
accommodation of utility facilities in the SH ROW, as provided in the Code, in order to ensure 
statewide uniformity. 
1.3 
Purpose 
1.3.1 
The purpose of the Code is to implement, by permit, Commission and Department authority to 
regulate utility accommodations in SH ROW. 
1.3.2 
The Code must comply with applicable federal provisions. 
1.4 
Definitions and References 
1.4.1 
Abbreviations: As used in the Code these abbreviations shall have the following meaning: 
1.4.1.1 AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials 
1.4.1.2 CCR: Code of Colorado Regulations 
1.4.1.3 CDOT: Colorado Department of Transportation (Department) 
1.4.1.4 CDPHE: Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment 
1.4.1.5 C.F.R.: Code of Federal Regulations 
1.4.1.6 CDPS: Colorado Discharge Permit System 
1.4.1.7 C.R.S.: Colorado Revised Statutes 
1.4.1.8 FHWA: Federal Highway Administration 
1.4.1.9 MPH: Miles per Hour 
1.4.1.10 
MS4: Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System 
1.4.1.11 
MUTCD: The FHWA “Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices” and the 
Colorado supplement thereto as adopted by the Commission pursuant to § 42-4-104, 
C.R.S. 
1.4.1.12 
OSHA: Occupational Safety and Health Administration 
1.4.1.13 
PUC: Colorado Public Utilities Commission 
1.4.1.14 
ROW or SH ROW: Highway Right Of Way or State Highway ROW under CDOT 
jurisdiction 
1.4.1.15 
§: A Section of C.F.R. or C.R.S. 
1.4.1.16 
UNCC: Utility Notification Center of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
3 
1.4.1.17 
U.S.C.: United States Code 
1.4.1.18 
WQCD: Water Quality Control Division at the Colorado Department of Public 
Health and Environment 
1.4.2 
Definitions 
1.4.2.1 ABANDONED: The cessation of ownership, use, and operation of a utility facility. Also 
see “Retirement” in these definitions. 
1.4.2.2 ACCOMMODATION: The location, installation, construction, operation, maintenance, 
repair, renewal, relocation or presence of utility facilities. 
1.4.2.3 ADJUSTMENT: A modification of an existing utility facility. 
1.4.2.4 AESTHETIC QUALITY: Those desirable characteristics in the appearance of the highway 
and its environment, such as harmony between or blending of natural or manufactured 
objects in the environment, continuity of visual form without distracting interruptions, and 
simplicity of designs which are desirably functional in shape but without clutter. 
1.4.2.5 APPLICANT: The person or entity that prepares a utility permit application on behalf of 
the utility owner. 
1.4.2.6 AS-CONSTRUCTED PLAN: also known as “As-Built Plan” is a plan updated throughout 
construction that includes all changes and modifications that occur during the 
construction phase of a project. 
1.4.2.7 BACKFILL: Replacement of suitable material as specified around and over a pipe, 
conduit, casing or gallery. 
1.4.2.8 BEDDING: Organization of soil or other suitable material to support a pipe, conduit, 
casing or gallery. 
1.4.2.9 BORE: The excavation of an underground circular cavity for the insertion of a pipe or 
other type of conduit. Also see “Trenchless.” 
1.4.2.10 
BRIDGE: A structure, including supports, erected over a depression or 
obstruction, such as water, a highway, or railroad, and having a track or passageway for 
carrying traffic or other moving loads and having a length measured along the center of 
roadway of more than twenty (20) feet between undercopings of abutments or extreme 
ends of openings for multiple boxes. 
1.4.2.11 
BRIDGE ATTACHMENT: Clamps, connectors, hangers, or other devices, subject 
to approval by the Department, required for securing utilities to a bridge. 
1.4.2.12 
CALENDAR DAY: Each and every day shown on the calendar, beginning and 
ending at midnight. When “day” is used, it shall mean calendar day unless otherwise 
specified. 
1.4.2.13 
CAP: Rigid structural element surmounting a pipe, conduit, casing, or gallery. 
1.4.2.14 
CARRIER: Pipe directly enclosing a transmitted fluid in a liquid or gaseous state. 
1.4.2.15 
CASING: A larger pipe enclosing a carrier. The cell of a box girder does not 
qualify as a casing. Tunnels or galleries may function as casing pipes.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
4 
1.4.2.16 
CATHODIC PROTECTION: A method of controlling corrosion through the use of 
an induced electrical current and sacrificial anodes. 
1.4.2.17 
CLEAR ZONE: The unobstructed, traversable area provided beyond the edge of 
the traveled way for the recovery of errant vehicles. The clear zone includes shoulders, 
bike lanes, and auxiliary lanes, except those auxiliary lanes that function like through 
lanes. 
1.4.2.18 
COATING: Material applied to or wrapped around a pipe. 
1.4.2.19 
CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electric current. 
1.4.2.20 
CONDUIT or DUCT: An enclosed tubular runway for protecting wires or cables. 
1.4.2.21 
COVER or COVER DEPTH or DEPTH OF COVER: The depth to the top of pipe, 
conduit, casing or gallery below grade of roadway or ditch. 
1.4.2.22 
CRADLE: Rigid structural element below and supporting a pipe. 
1.4.2.23 
CROSSING: The utility crossing of the SH ROW plus isolated segments of utility 
lines which may parallel the highway for not more than five hundred (500) feet. 
1.4.2.24 
DAY: Means a calendar day, unless specifically stated otherwise in the 
applicable text of the Code. 
1.4.2.25 
DEPARTMENT: The Colorado Department of Transportation. 
1.4.2.26 
DESIGN-BUILD CONTRACT: The procurement of both the design and 
construction of a transportation project in a single contract with a single design-build firm 
or a combination of such firms capable of providing the necessary design and 
construction services. 
1.4.2.27 
DESIGNATED REPRESENTATIVE: An authorized, appointed representative of 
the Department, local agency, utility owner or permittee. 
1.4.2.28 
DIVIDED HIGHWAY: A highway with separated roadways usually for traffic 
moving in opposite directions, such separation being indicated by depressed dividing 
strips, raised curbings, traffic islands, or other physical barriers so constructed as to 
impede vehicular traffic or otherwise indicated by standard pavement markings or other 
official traffic control devices as prescribed in the state traffic control manual. 
1.4.2.29 
DRAIN: Appurtenance designed to discharge liquid. 
1.4.2.30 
EASEMENT: An interest in real property that conveys a right to use a portion of 
an owner’s property or a portion of an owner’s rights in the property. 
1.4.2.31 
EMERGENCY: Where circumstances imperatively require immediate action to 
comply with a State or federal law or federal regulation or for the preservation of the 
public health, safety or welfare. 
1.4.2.32 
ENCASEMENT: A structural element surrounding a pipe, which may include 
boxing or jacketing in trenched installations, or grouting in trenchless installations. 
1.4.2.33 
EXPRESSWAY: A divided highway with partial control of access.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
5 
1.4.2.34 
FEDERAL AID HIGHWAY: A public highway eligible for assistance under 
Chapter 1 of Title 23 of the United States Code other than a highway functionally 
classified as a local road or rural minor collector. 
1.4.2.35 
FEDERAL AID HIGHWAY PROJECTS: Active or completed highway projects 
administered by or through a State highway agency which involve or have involved the 
use of federal aid highway funds for the development, ROW acquisition, construction, or 
improvement of highway or related facilities, including highway beautification projects. 
1.4.2.36 
FLOWABLE BACKFILL: A low-cement-content aggregate mixture developed as 
an alternative to conventional trench backfilling methods, to facilitate the backfilling 
operation and expedite the restoration of a pavement surface. 
1.4.2.37 
FORCE MAJEURE: is a “superior force,” such as natural and unavoidable 
catastrophes that interrupt the expected course of events and restrict participants from 
fulfilling obligations. It is a common clause in contracts to free both parties from liability or 
obligation when an extraordinary event or circumstance beyond the control of the parties, 
such as a war, strike, riot, crime, or an event described by the term “act of God” (e.g., 
flooding, earthquake, volcano), prevents one or both parties from fulfilling their obligations 
under the contract. It does not excuse negligence or other malfeasance of a party, as 
where non-performance is caused by the usual and natural consequences of external 
forces, or where the intervening circumstances are specifically contemplated. 
1.4.2.38 
FREEWAY: A divided highway with full control of access. 
1.4.2.39 
FRONTAGE ROAD: A local street or road auxiliary to and located on the side of 
a highway for service to abutting property and adjacent areas for control of access. 
1.4.2.40 
FULL CONTROL OF ACCESS: The access control which provides for a 
preference to through traffic by providing access connections only with selected public 
roads and by prohibiting at-grade crossings and direct private driveway connections. 
1.4.2.41 
GALLERY: An underpass for two or more utility lines. 
1.4.2.42 
GRADE SEPARATION: A crossing of two roadways, or a roadway and railroad, 
at different levels. 
1.4.2.43 
GRAVITY-FED SYSTEM: any underground facility that is not pressurized and 
that utilizes gravity as the only means to transport its contents. These systems include 
sanitary lines, storm sewer lines, irrigation lines, and open-air irrigation ditches. 
1.4.2.44 
GROUT: A cement mortar or a slurry of fine sand or clay. 
1.4.2.45 
HEAVY WALL THICKNESS PIPE: Pipe meeting the industry standard for this 
specific designation. 
1.4.2.46 
HIGHWAY: The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly 
maintained when any part thereof is open to use of the public for purposes of vehicular 
travel or the entire width of every way declared to be a public highway by any law of this 
State. 
1.4.2.47 
HIGHWAY AGENCY: That department, agency, commission, board, or official of 
any state or political subdivision thereof, charged by its law with the responsibility for 
highway administration.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
6 
1.4.2.48 
HIGHWAY PURPOSE: Pertaining to the planning, design, construction, 
operation, maintenance, or improvement of any portion of the highway facility or function 
thereof, or to any lawful duty or act of a highway agency. 
1.4.2.49 
HIGHWAY PROPERTY: SH ROW, Port of Entry, and all improvements 
constructed thereon for highway purposes, including but not limited to such elements as: 
roadway template, pavement, subgrade, roadside areas, curbing, traffic barriers, highway 
structures, landscaping, irrigation and drainage systems, lighting, traffic signal systems, 
delineation, pavement markings and survey monumentation. 
1.4.2.50 
HIGHWAY STRUCTURE: Any structure constructed for the purpose of carrying 
vehicular, rail, or pedestrian traffic over a depression, stream, obstacle, roadway, 
walkway, or railroad. 
1.4.2.51 
HOLIDAY: Holidays recognized by the State of Colorado are: New Year’s Day, 
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Birthday (observed), President’s Day, Memorial Day, 
Independence Day, Labor Day, Frances Xavier Cabrini Day, Veteran’s Day, 
Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day. When a holiday falls on Sunday, the following Monday 
shall be considered a holiday, and when a holiday falls on a Saturday, the preceding 
Friday shall be considered a holiday. Cesar Chavez Day (March 31) may be considered a 
holiday, and, will be noted on the completed permit if applicable. Additional legal 
holidays, when designated by the Governor or the President of the United States, may 
also be recognized by the State. When a local agency has issuing authority for a permit, 
such other day(s) as the local agency may designate shall also be considered holiday(s) 
for the purpose of the permit. 
1.4.2.52 
INSPECTOR: A designated representative of the Department who is assigned to 
make detailed inspections of utility permit activities in order to verify compliance with the 
Code and with the terms and conditions of an approved permit. 
1.4.2.53 
INSTALLATION: A utility facility or portion thereof, which is placed within SH 
ROW or property owned by non-private entities, or the act of making same. 
1.4.2.54 
INTERCHANGE: A facility that grade separates intersecting roadways and 
provides directional ramps for access movements between the roadways. The structure 
and the ramps are part of the interchange. 
1.4.2.55 
INTERSTATE: A highway that is included as part of the national system of 
interstate and defense highways. 
1.4.2.56 
ISSUING AUTHORITY: The authority vested in the appropriate government 
agency to issue a permit in accordance with the Code to accommodate a utility in SH 
ROW. 
1.4.2.57 
JACKET or BOX: Encasement by concrete poured around a pipe or utility when 
proper depth cannot be obtained. 
1.4.2.58 
JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means, 
with or without boring. 
1.4.2.59 
JETTING: Pushing a pipe through a roadway embankment using water under 
pressure to create a cavity ahead of the pipe. Jetting is different from Wet Boring, which 
is defined herein.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
7 
1.4.2.60 
JOINT USE: The use of pole line, trenches, duct systems, or other facilities by 
two or more utilities in order to conserve SH ROW. 
1.4.2.61 
LEAK-PROOF CONSTRUCTION: Methods to ensure against leakage in 
pipelines, including welded or mechanical leak-proof joints, and/or quality assurance 
measures such as radiographic or hydrostatic testing and certification of welds and joints. 
1.4.2.62 
LOCAL AGENCY: The city, city and county, or incorporated town within whose 
jurisdiction the utility will be accommodated in the ROW of a street that is also a State 
highway. 
1.4.2.63 
LOCAL STREET: A street that is a part of a system of streets established in each 
city, city and county, and incorporated town, known as the city street system. It shall not 
include any street established by law as a part of the state highway system. 
1.4.2.64 
LONGITUDINAL: Parallel or nearly parallel to the approximate alignment of the 
highway for more than five hundred (500) feet. 
1.4.2.65 
MAINTENANCE: The servicing and repair of an existing facility as necessary to 
keep the facility in safe and acceptable operating condition. 
1.4.2.66 
MAJOR CHANGE: An alteration in the scope, location, nature, or cost of the 
work and includes but is not limited to: 
1.4.2.66.1 
changing a facility from aerial to underground; or 
1.4.2.66.2 
changing the location of a highway crossing; or 
1.4.2.66.3 
a shift from one side of the highway to another; or 
1.4.2.66.4 
any increase in plant capacity; and 
1.4.2.66.5 
changing from boring to open cut installation. 
1.4.2.67 
MANHOLE: An opening in an underground system which workmen, or others 
may enter for the purpose of making installations, repairs, connections or tests. 
1.4.2.68 
MARKER: A pole or other object placed over or near a buried facility to denote 
the facility’s alignment. 
1.4.2.69 
MEDIAN: That portion of the highway separating the opposing traffic flows. 
1.4.2.70 
METHOD OF HANDLING TRAFFIC (MHT): A site-specific traffic control plan that 
describes the traffic control measures that may or will be taken in a particular phase of a 
permit operation or in a particular situation that may be encountered. 
1.4.2.71 
MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). A conveyance or 
system of conveyances (including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch 
basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, man-made channels, or storm drains):

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
8 
1.4.2.71.1 
Owned or operated by a state, city, town, borough, county, parish, 
district, association, or other public body (created by or pursuant to state law) 
having jurisdiction over disposal of sewage, industrial wastes, stormwater, or 
other wastes. This includes special districts under state law such as a sewer 
district, flood control district or drainage district, or similar entity, or an Indian tribe 
or an authorized Indian tribal organization, or a designated and approved 
management agency under the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1251, et seq., that 
discharges to waters of the United States; 
1.4.2.71.2 
Designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater; and 
1.4.2.71.3 
Which is not a combined sewer; and 
1.4.2.71.4 
Which is not part of a Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW). See 5 
CCR 1002-61.2(62). 
1.4.2.72 
NIGHT: The period between one hour before sunset and one hour after sunrise, 
or as specified in the Utility Permit. 
1.4.2.73 
PARTIAL CONTROL OF ACCESS: The authority to control access is exercised 
to give preference to through traffic to a degree that, in addition to access connections 
with selected public roads, there may be some crossings at-grade and some private 
driveway connections. 
1.4.2.74 
PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for the purpose of 
placing or maintaining a utility facility. 
1.4.2.75 
PAVEMENT STRUCTURE: The combination of subbase, base course, and 
surface course placed on a subgrade to support and distribute the traffic load to the 
roadbed. 
1.4.2.76 
PERMIT: The written document by which the Department regulates and/or gives 
approval of the use and occupancy of the SH ROW by utility facilities or private lines, and 
which sets forth the approved terms and conditions under which a utility or utility facility 
may be accommodated within SH ROW. A permit is permissive authority that does not 
convey any compensable property interest to the permittee. Permits shall be issued only 
to the actual facility owner. 
1.4.2.77 
PERMITTEE: The entity that owns and operates and maintains the utility facility, 
and that is responsible for fulfilling all the terms and conditions of the permit; or, as 
accepted by the Department, the utility owner’s designated representative, authorized by 
the owner, to carry out any or all permitted activities. 
1.4.2.78 
PIPE: A tubular product made as a production item and for sale as such. 
Cylinders formed from plate in the course of fabrication of auxiliary equipment are not 
pipe as defined herein. 
1.4.2.79 
PLOWING: Direct burial of utility lines by means of a “plow” type mechanism 
which breaks the ground, places the utility line and closes the break in the ground in a 
single operation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
9 
1.4.2.80 
PORT OF ENTRY: Fixed or mobile weight stations operated by Port of Entry 
officers authorized by statute to engage in commercial vehicle size, weight and safety 
enforcement and to facilitate the enforcement and collection of applicable fees, licenses, 
or taxes imposed upon motor carriers and the owners and operators of motor vehicles 
using the public highways of the state of Colorado. 
1.4.2.81 
PRESSURE: Relative internal pressure in pounds per square inch (PSI) gauge. 
1.4.2.82 
PRIVATE LINE: Privately owned facilities, which convey or transmit commodities 
outlined in the definition herein for “utility facility,” but devoted exclusively for private use. 
1.4.2.83 
RECORD SET is a final set of design plans and specifications issued for 
construction which is sealed by a licensed professional engineer. The Applicant is 
responsible for determining if the design requires the oversight of a licensed professional 
engineer subject to the concurrence and approval by the Department. 
1.4.2.84 
REGION: A geographical subdivision of the state of Colorado established by the 
Department for administrative purposes. 
1.4.2.85 
RELOCATION: The adjustment of utility facilities required by the highway project 
or other highway purpose. It includes removing and reinstalling the facility, including 
necessary temporary facilities, acquiring necessary right of way on the new location, 
moving, rearranging or changing the type of existing facilities and taking any necessary 
safety and protective measures. It shall also mean constructing a replacement facility that 
is both functionally equivalent to the existing facility and necessary for the continuous 
operation of the utility service, the project economy, or sequence of highway construction. 
1.4.2.86 
REST AREA: A roadside area with parking facilities separated from the roadway 
provided for motorists to stop and rest for short periods. It may include drinking water, 
toilets, tables and benches, telephones, information and other facilities for travelers. 
1.4.2.87 
RETIREMENT: The cessation of use and operation of a utility facility that 
remains under the utility’s ownership. 
1.4.2.88 
RIGHT-OF-WAY (ROW): Department-controlled property, or interests therein, 
acquired, dedicated or reserved for the construction, operation, and maintenance of the 
State highway system. 
1.4.2.89 
ROADSIDE: A general term denoting the area adjoining the outer edge of the 
roadway. Extensive areas between the roadways of a divided highway may also be 
considered roadside. 
1.4.2.90 
ROADWAY: That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for 
vehicular travel exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway includes two or 
more separate roadways, “roadway” refers to any such roadway separately but not to all 
such roadways collectively. 
1.4.2.91 
ROADWAY TEMPLATE: The area of the constructed or proposed road 
embankment from road centerline across the traveled lane(s) and shoulder, then down to 
a drainage ditch, then up to an intercept with natural ground in a cut section, or from the 
shoulder down to an intercept with natural ground in a fill section. 
1.4.2.92 
RURAL AREA: Any segment of the State highway system not considered to be in 
an urban area.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
10 
1.4.2.93 
SHOULDER: A portion of the roadway template immediately adjacent to the 
traveled lane. 
1.4.2.94 
SPECIAL PROVISIONS: Terms and conditions of a permit, imposed by the 
Department, which are consistent with but not otherwise set forth in the Code and which 
address unique or variable circumstances particular to a given installation. 
1.4.2.95 
STANDARD PROVISIONS: Standardized terms and conditions of a permit that 
reflect specific Code requirements and which apply in most situations. 
1.4.2.96 
STATE HIGHWAY (SH): A highway on the State highway system. 
1.4.2.97 
STATE HIGHWAY SYSTEM: All highways under Department jurisdiction and 
control and declared as such by the Commission pursuant to § 43-2-101, C.R.S. 
1.4.2.98 
STRUCTURE ATTACHMENT: A utility attached to or installed within a highway 
structure. 
1.4.2.99 
SURVEY PLAN: Includes all documents, plats, and reports resulting from the 
practice of land surveying that shall be identified with and bear the seal, the signature, 
and date of signature of the land surveyor in responsible charge. A professional land 
surveyor shall use a seal and signature when the work to which the seal is applied was 
prepared under the professional land surveyor's responsible charge pursuant to the 
Architects, Professional Engineers, and Professional Land Surveyors Rules and 
Regulations, 4 CCR 730-1. 
1.4.2.100 
TRAFFIC CONTROL PLAN (TCP): The planned utilization of MHT and of traffic 
control devices, as necessary, to ensure the safe and expeditious movement of traffic 
around and through the utility work site and the safety of the utility work force. 
1.4.2.101 
TRAFFIC CONTROL SUPERVISOR (TCS): The on-site person in direct 
responsible charge for implementing the TCP and shall be certified as a worksite traffic 
supervisor by either the American Traffic Safety Services Association or the Colorado 
Contractors Association, and shall have a current CDOT flagger certification card. 
1.4.2.102 
TRAVELED WAY: The portion of the roadway for the movement of vehicles, 
exclusive of shoulders and auxiliary lanes. 
1.4.2.103 
TRENCHED: Installed in a narrow open excavation. 
1.4.2.104 
TRENCHLESS: Installed using a method where no trench is excavated, such as 
microtunneling, jacking or horizontal directional drilling. 
1.4.2.105 
UNDERGROUNDING: The act of burying a line, cable, or conduit, and in context 
may refer in particular to the act of replacing an existing aerial facility with a buried 
facility. 
1.4.2.106 
URBAN AREA: An area where residences or businesses are clustered, not 
necessarily within municipal boundaries, where frequent approaches, utility lines, and 
drainage facilities are likely to be encountered, and where potential exists for future 
widening of the road to accommodate anticipated traffic growth.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
11 
1.4.2.107 
UTILITY or UTILITY FACILITY: Any privately, publicly or cooperatively owned 
line, facility, or system for producing, transmitting, or distributing communications, cable 
television, power, electricity, light, heat, gas, oil, crude products, water, steam, waste, 
storm water not connected with highway drainage, or any other similar commodity, 
including any fire or police signal system or street lighting system, which directly or 
indirectly serves the public. The term utility shall also mean the utility company inclusive 
of any substantially owned or controlled subsidiary. For the purposes of the Code, the 
term includes those utility-type facilities which are owned or leased by a government 
agency for its own use, or otherwise dedicated solely to governmental use. The term 
utility includes those facilities used solely by the utility which are part of its operating 
plant. As the context provides, the term utility may also relate to an action or requirement 
of a “permittee.” 
1.4.2.108 
VARIANCE: A deviation from a specific requirement of the Code, requested by a 
utility owner or permittee, that if approved, is deemed consistent with the purpose and 
intent of the Code, and is reasonably necessary for the convenience, safety, and welfare 
of the public. 
1.4.2.109 
VENT: Apparatus to discharge all gaseous contaminants from a casing. 
1.4.2.110 
WET BORING/HORIZONTAL DIRECTIONAL DRILLING (HDD): To bore using 
water or slurry mix under pressure at the cutting auger to soften the earth and to sluice 
out the excavated material. 
1.4.2.111 
WORKING DAY: Any day that the permittee can perform a normal day of work, 
exclusive of delays which result from inclement weather, labor disputes, material 
shortages and other factors beyond the permittee’s control. It does not include any 
weekends or legal holidays. 
1.5 
Applicability and General Provisions 
1.5.1 
The Code shall apply only to utility accommodations on SH ROW. 
1.5.2 
The Department will issue a permit only if the utility accommodation complies with the Code, and 
is not otherwise detrimental to the highway facility or to the health, welfare and safety of the 
public. 
1.5.3 
The Department may include permit terms and conditions deemed reasonably necessary to give 
effect to the purpose, scope or requirements of the Code. 
1.5.4 
Where language of the Code requires particular action to be taken or omitted, but does not 
specifically identify the responsible party, such requirements shall apply to and be the sole 
responsibility of the utility owner, as the context provides. 
1.5.5 
Where the language of the Code does not impose a particular obligation, but expressly indicates 
that a requirement or condition “will be specified,” or “otherwise approved,” or “may be required,” 
or “may be necessary,” or that the “Department may require a utility to take further action,” the 
Code anticipates that such requirement or condition or action, if any, will be described by the 
Department in the permit. Such a requirement, condition or action will be applicable to the utility 
owner only if specifically described in the issued permit.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
12 
1.5.6 
The Code does not invalidate utility permits or agreements issued or entered into prior to the 
effective date of the Code. However, to the extent the Code requires a utility to take reasonably 
necessary action in order to protect the public health, welfare and safety, or to prevent 
unreasonable interference with a State highway, existing utilities shall be subject to such 
requirements. The utility must take such actions upon written notice. 
1.6 
Material Incorporated by Reference 
The following regulations and standards are incorporated by reference pursuant to § 24-4-103(12.5), 
C.R.S.; such incorporation does not include later amendments or editions of any incorporated material. 
As part of the Code and by this reference, such material is incorporated but only to the extent such 
material is consistent with the express provisions of the Code: 
1.6.1 
Federal Laws, Regulations, and Standards 
1.6.1.1 23 C.F.R. § 1.23, “Rights of Way,” October 28, 2019 
1.6.1.2 23 C.F.R. Subpart 645A, “Utility Relocations, Adjustments, and Reimbursement,” October 
28, 2019 
1.6.1.3 23 C.F.R. Subpart 645 B, “Accommodation of Utilities,” October 28, 2019 
1.6.1.4 49 C.F.R. Part 192, “Transportation of Natural and Other Gas by Pipeline; Minimum 
Safety Standards” August 06,2020 
1.6.1.5 49 C.F.R. Part 195, “Transportation of Liquids by Pipeline; Minimum Safety Standards”) 
August 06, 2020 
1.6.2 
National and Industry Standards 
1.6.2.1 “A Guide for Accommodating Utilities Within Highway Right-of-Way,” AASHTO, 4th 
edition, October 2005 
1.6.2.2 “A Policy on the Accommodation of Utilities Within Freeway Right-of-Way,” AASHTO, 5th 
edition, October 2005 
1.6.2.3 “Roadside Design Guide”, AASHTO, 4th edition, 2011, reprinted February 2012 
1.6.2.4 “Recommended Practice for Liquid Petroleum Pipelines Crossing Railroads and 
Highways,” American Petroleum Institute, Division of Transportation, API Recommended 
Practice 1102, 7th edition, December 2007 with March 2014 errata 
1.6.2.5 “Manual for Assessing Safety Hardware (MASH),” AASHTO, 2nd edition, 2016 Year 
Published 
1.6.2.6 “Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD),” FHWA, 2009 edition with 
Revision Numbers 1 and 2 Incorporated, dated May 2012. 
1.6.3 
Copies of Incorporated Material 
Copies of the national and industry standards are maintained by the CDOT State Utilities 
Engineer and are available for public inspection during regular business hours at the Colorado 
Department of Transportation, 2829 W. Howard Pl., Denver, CO 80204.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
13 
1.6.3.1 Copies of the referenced United States Code may be obtained from the following 
address: 
Office of the Law Revision Counsel 
U.S. House of Representatives 
H2-308 Ford House Office Building 
Washington, DC 20515 
(202) 226-2411 
https://uscode.house.gov/ 
1.6.3.2 Copies of the referenced Code of Federal Regulations may be obtained from the 
following address: 
U.S. Government Publishing Office 
732 North Capitol Street, N.W. 
Washington, DC 20401  
(202) 512-1800 
https://www.govinfo.gov/ 
1.6.3.3 Copies of the MUTCD may be obtained from the following address: 
Office of Transportation Operations 
Federal Highway Administration, Mail Stop: E84-402 
1200 New Jersey Avenue, S.E. 
Washington, DC 20590 
https://mutcd.fhwa.dot.gov/ 
1.6.3.4 Copies of AASHTO publications may be obtained from the following address: 
AASHTO Publications Order Department 
P.O. Box 933538 
Atlanta, GA 31193 
(800) 231-3475 
https://store.transportation.org/. 
1.6.3.5 Copies of publications from the American Petroleum Institute may be obtained from the 
following address: 
API 
1220 L Street, NW 
Washington, DC 20005 
(202) 682-8000 
https://www.api.org/products-and-services/standards/purchase#tab-catalog 
1.6.4 
Conflict in Laws 
These Rules are written to comply with and implement the Colorado Revised Statutes and the 
federal regulations referenced herein. If any provision of these Rules or their application is held 
illegal, invalid, or unenforceable, no other provisions or applications of the Rules shall be affected 
and to this end the provisions of these Rules are severable. If these Rules conflict with relevant 
federal or state law, the federal or state law shall govern.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
14 
2.0 
PROCEDURES 
2.1 
General 
2.1.1 
Local Agency Authority to Issue Permits in the SH ROW 
2.1.1.1 The Department has the authority and primary responsibility to issue permits for utility 
accommodations on all SH ROW, including State highways that may also be local streets 
within the local agency jurisdiction. Any work outside of the roadway may require a 
separate permit from the local agency. 
2.1.1.2 If an application requests utility accommodation on a State highway that is also a local 
street within the local agency jurisdiction, the Department shall, if requested by the local 
agency, consult with the local agency before the Department acts on the application 
and/or the terms and conditions of the permit. 
2.1.1.3 The Department may, upon written request by a local agency and prior approval thereof 
by the Department, delegate the authority described in the above Section 2.1.1.2 to a 
local agency for State highways within its jurisdiction, subject to the following conditions: 
2.1.1.3.1 
The local agency’s written request must be executed by the person 
authorized to obligate the local agency on utility matters. 
2.1.1.3.2 
Under any delegation, the Department shall remain the sole issuing 
authority for utility permits on all State highways designated as freeways or 
expressways. 
2.1.1.3.3 
Any permit issued by the local agency shall include all terms and 
conditions necessary to ensure compliance with the Code. 
2.1.1.3.4 
Upon written request from the local agency, the Department will assist 
with permit applications received by the local agency, including but not limited to 
reviewing an application, recommending permit action, and/or preparing a permit 
for local agency issuance. 
2.1.1.3.5 
If requested by the Department, the local agency shall promptly furnish 
the Department with copies of all permits issued, and of applications denied 
together with reasons for denial. 
2.1.1.3.6 
The local agency shall be responsible to ensure minimum Code 
compliance with all terms and conditions of any permit issued, and to hear and 
decide any appeals of its permitting decisions. 
2.1.1.3.7 
The permit shall expressly provide that the Department may, at any time, 
inspect the site of work authorized by the permit. 
2.1.1.3.8 
Any locally adopted utility accommodation standards that are imposed 
through a permit shall meet the minimum applicable requirements of the Code. 
2.1.1.3.9 
The permit shall expressly provide that the Department shall retain 
authority to take immediate remedial action concerning permitted work to attain 
compliance with the Code or with permit conditions, or as otherwise required for 
the public health, welfare and/or safety.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
15 
2.1.1.3.10 
The local agency may relinquish the delegated authority upon written 
notice to the Department, and the Department may withdraw its delegation of 
authority upon written notice to the local agency. 
2.1.1.3.11 
The Department reserves the right to issue utility relocation permits. 
2.1.2 
Responsibility for Utility Accommodation Costs and Damages on Department Projects 
2.1.2.1 The utility owner shall be responsible for all costs relating to the accommodation of its 
facilities within the SH ROW, or their relocation from the SH ROW and the Department 
shall have no responsibility for any costs of any utility accommodation, except as 
expressly provided otherwise in this Section or in a permit or written agreement. 
2.1.2.2 The Department shall give written notice to the utility when the utility fails to fulfill any 
requirement of the Code or the provisions of its permit. The Department shall allow the 
utility the opportunity to remedy within the time set by the Department in its written 
notification. Extensions may be granted upon written request showing good cause. If a 
utility does not remedy the failure to comply with any requirement or provision, the 
Department, may elect in its discretion to perform the work by any other suitable means. 
In that event, the utility shall be liable to the Department for all costs reasonably and 
actually incurred by the Department for that performance. All costs shall be itemized to 
the extent practicable. The utility shall pay that amount plus interest at the statutory rate 
to the Department not later than 30 days after receipt of the Department’s bill. Any such 
amounts not paid may be used to offset future fiscal Department obligations to the utility. 
2.1.2.3 The utility company shall pay for damages caused by the company's delay in the 
performance of utility relocation work or interference with the performance of 
transportation project work done by others. Such damages may include, but are not 
limited to, payments made by the Department to any third party based on a claim that 
performance of the transportation project work was delayed or interfered with as a direct 
result of the utility company's failure to timely perform the utility relocation work. Project 
delay damages shall be tied to the project’s critical path schedule so as to demonstrate a 
timeline of events leading up to the utility’s failure to perform the work and subsequent 
delay to the project. This information will be provided to the utility in advance and is 
subject to the following additional provisions: 
2.1.2.3.1 
Damages resulting from delays in the performance of the utility 
company’s relocation work or interference with the transportation project work 
caused by Force Majeure or events beyond the utility company’s ability to 
reasonably foresee or control shall not be charged to the utility company. 
2.1.2.3.2 
If damages are charged against the utility, the Department may withhold 
issuance of a permit until such damage charges are paid, or deduct damage 
charges from any outstanding accounts for relocation reimbursement 
agreements with that utility company. 
2.1.2.3.3 
For utility relocations arranged through Design-Build Contracts, damage 
charges and the potential withholding of permits are subject to Part 14 of Title 43, 
C.R.S. 
2.1.2.4 The Department will reimburse a utility for the costs of relocating its facility only where 
any of the following conditions exist:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
16 
2.1.2.4.1 
the Utility has the right of occupancy in its existing location because it 
holds the fee, an easement, or other real property interest, the damaging or 
taking of which is compensable in eminent domain; or 
2.1.2.4.2 
the facilities are owned by a governmental subdivision of the State of 
Colorado or an abutting landowner, as provided in § 43-1-225, C.R.S.; or 
2.1.2.4.3 
the provisions of § 43-1-1411, C.R.S. apply with respect to certain 
relocation costs associated with a Design-Build Contract; or 
2.1.2.4.4 
the facilities exist to serve a highway purpose. 
2.1.2.5 Except as otherwise provided in § 43-1-1411(5), C.R.S., when in the acquisition of new 
SH ROW, the Department overtakes a utility’s real property interest, the Department 
may: 
2.1.2.5.1 
acquire a replacement property interest for the utility or reimburse the 
utility for the reasonable cost of acquiring its own replacement interest, the 
reasonableness of which will be determined by the Department after consultation 
with the utility; or 
2.1.2.5.2 
where it is not necessary, by virtue of the nature of the transportation 
project to relocate utility facilities, the Department may enter into a common use 
agreement or other type of agreement with the utility that allows a property 
interest to exist within SH ROW; or 
2.1.2.5.3 
if the utility must relocate within the SH ROW and if a replacement 
interest is not acquired, the utility may be justly compensated to the extent 
allowable in accordance with Colorado eminent domain law and precedent for 
the value of its real property interest; or 
2.1.2.5.4 
if the relocation of a utility’s facility is necessitated by a transportation 
project and the utility elects to relocate its facilities within the SH ROW, the 
Department may enter into a common use agreement or a utility permit with the 
utility that allows reimbursement for future relocations of the utility’s facilities 
provided that the utility vacates all property interest that exists within the SH 
ROW. 
2.2 
Utility Permits and Utility Relocation Permits to the State Highway 
2.2.1 
Requirement to Obtain a Permit 
2.2.1.1 Utility owners must obtain a permit from the Department prior to performing any utility 
accommodation work, including the initial installation, relocation, system upgrades, 
maintenance activities not covered under existing permit, or facilities removal. 
2.2.1.2 The utility must obtain a new or revised permit for any work which is not expressly 
described in the language of the scope of work of an existing permit. The Department 
may issue an annual maintenance permit, depending upon the utility type, for planned or 
emergency maintenance activities, traffic and roadway characteristics. 
2.2.1.3 Applications for utility permits and utility relocation permits, shall be on Department-
prescribed forms, unless issuing authority for permits has been delegated to a local 
agency.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
17 
2.2.1.4 The utility shall comply with all applicable requirements of the Code, and if a permit is 
issued, with all terms and conditions of that permit. 
2.2.1.5 A utility shall not perform any utility accommodation work without first obtaining a permit 
issued by the Department or delegated issuing authority. 
2.2.2 
Application for a Utility Permit 
2.2.2.1 An applicant must submit an application for a permit to the appropriate Region Utility 
Permit Office where the accommodation is requested. CDOT region offices are located in 
Denver, Durango, Grand Junction, Greeley, and Pueblo. For permitting purposes the 
Durango region is further subdivided into Durango and Alamosa offices. Contact names, 
addresses, phone/fax numbers and e-mail addresses are available online from the CDOT 
Utility Code website (https://www.codot.gov/business/permits/utilitiesspecialuse/permit-
process.html). 
2.2.2.2 The application must be submitted through the Department’s prescribed CDOT Form 
#1233, which is available from the Department’s regional offices or online. The 
application must include a complete description of the purpose, nature and specific 
location of planned work, and the anticipated start and completion dates for that work. 
The application must include a scope of the proposed activities to be covered by a 
permit, including type and size of utility facility, proposed utility plans, traffic control plans, 
insurance certificate, methods used to perform the work. The application must describe 
that information in sufficient detail to enable the Department to determine exactly what 
work is proposed. 
2.2.2.3 Permits are only issued in the name of the utility owner. If the applicant is other than the 
utility owner, the application must include written evidence granting the applicant’s 
authority to act as an agent for the utility owner. Such evidence will be on official utility 
owner letterhead, signed by the utility owner granting such authority. Such written 
evidence shall acknowledge that the utility owner understands that the permit will only be 
issued to the owner. 
2.2.2.4 The applicant shall submit reasonably necessary additional items of information, if any, 
as requested by the Department in conjunction with a permit application, including but not 
limited to: highway and utility plan and profile information, utility facility design, existing 
and/or proposed locations of other facilities within the affected area, evidence of 
adequate, and current liability insurance coverage of the proposed work, and any 
available Global Positioning System (GPS) coordinates for all proposed work. 
2.2.3 
Action on the Application; Issuance of Permit 
2.2.3.1 The Department may refuse to accept or consider any incomplete application that lacks 
necessary information or detail. Such permit is not denied but the Department may defer 
the administration, review, and processing until it is deemed complete. 
2.2.3.2 When a completed application is received, the Department shall promptly evaluate and 
act on the application in accordance with the Code and any applicable federal and state 
laws. For any applications involving extraordinary circumstances, the Department shall 
negotiate additional reasonable time, as necessary, to completely review and act on an 
application.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
18 
2.2.3.3 If the Department denies the permit requested by the application per Section 2.2.6.1, a 
copy of the permit application marked “Denied,” together with a written explanation of the 
grounds for the denial shall immediately be provided. Retracted applications are not 
permit denials. 
2.2.3.4 If the Department preliminarily approves the permit requested by the application, it will 
prepare and transmit to the applicant for signature a written permit containing standard 
provisions and applicable special provisions and other terms and conditions. The permit 
will be prepared using the Department’s prescribed form. The permittee must sign and 
return the permit to the Department in a timely manner. 
2.2.3.5 The Department may issue a “conditional” permit that is subject to further resolution of 
such matters as work schedule, construction methods or other permit requirements, 
before the affected work may proceed. 
2.2.3.6 The effective date of the permit shall be the date the Department signs the permit. A 
permit shall not be effective or valid until it is signed by the permittee and the 
Department, with the date of issuance properly affixed thereto. 
2.2.3.7 If the permittee does not sign the permit, or does not agree to all the terms and conditions 
of the permit, or does not return the signed permit within that 60-day period, then the 
Department shall have no obligation to sign the permit or to take further action on the 
permit. 
2.2.3.8 The Department will submit the Utility Relocation Permit to the Utility Owner for signature 
when a utility relocation is required for a transportation project. 
2.2.4 
Utility Permits Requiring Third Party Approval 
2.2.4.1 The applicant must obtain the approval of a third party, and agree to terms and all 
conditions imposed by that third party, before the Department will issue a permit in 
certain circumstances, which may include but not be limited to: 
2.2.4.1.1 
applications wherein the proposed accommodation is on federal lands 
and the SH ROW grant is for highway purposes only. In such cases, the 
applicant must first obtain permission from, and comply with the requirements of, 
the federal agency having jurisdiction over the underlying land; or 
2.2.4.1.2 
proposed utility accommodation wherein others hold an overlapping 
easement or other real property interest in a portion of SH ROW. In such cases, 
the application must include written evidence that the overlapping easement or 
other real property interest owner concurs with the application; or 
2.2.4.1.3 
required FHWA concurrence when the proposed accommodation is on 
the ROW of a federal aid highway and either: 
2.2.4.1.3.1 
does not conform with applicable federal regulations; or 
2.2.3.1.3.2 
does not comply with the Code; or 
2.2.4.1.3.3 
involves longitudinal use of the SH ROW by a private line as 
described in Section 3.2.2.5; or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
19 
2.2.4.1.4 
the proposed accommodation involves the joint use of another utility 
owner facility or facilities, or involves the co-location of two or more utility facilities 
in a common trench or conduit. 
2.2.4.2  
Any necessary FHWA approval under Section 2.2.4.1 above will be requested by 
the Department during the permit application review process. The applicant shall be 
solely responsible to request and obtain all other approvals required under Section 
2.2.4.1 above. 
2.2.4.3 The applicant must identify and address the need for any such third party approval in the 
application. The Department will advise the applicant of such needs that it is aware of, 
and will make the permit expressly subject to prior written approval of such third parties, 
or may require reasonable evidence of such approvals. 
2.2.4.4 If a permit is issued, it will contain, or incorporate by reference, all terms and conditions 
required by such third parties. 
2.2.4.5 Environmental clearances must be obtained as described in Section 3.1.7. 
2.2.5 
Variance Procedures 
2.2.5.1 The applicant must submit a written request, as part of the permit application, if seeking a 
variance from any requirement of the Code. The request shall describe the proposed 
variance, and the specific reasons for the variance. 
2.2.5.2 In determining whether to grant a variance the Department will consider all relevant 
factors, including whether: 
2.2.5.2.1 
a variance is reasonably necessary for the convenience, safety and/or 
welfare of the public; or 
2.2.5.2.2 
there is exceptional or undue financial burden or other hardship on the 
applicant, or a physical impracticability; or 
2.2.5.2.3 
a variance will not impair the highway, highway operations, maintenance, 
safety or otherwise conflict with the purposes of the Code; or 
2.2.5.2.4 
a variance would not be detrimental to the public health, welfare and/or 
safety. 
2.2.6 
Denial, Suspension, Modification or Revocation of Permit 
2.2.6.1 The Department may deny a permit pursuant to § 24-4-104, C.R.S. if the requested utility 
accommodation does not comply with the Code or applicable law, or otherwise 
endangers the public health, safety and/or welfare. 
2.2.6.2 The Department may suspend, limit, modify, revoke or refuse to renew or revise a 
previously issued permit pursuant to § 24-4-104(5), C.R.S. if: 
2.2.6.2.1 
The application contains any material misrepresentations, false 
information, or its approval was otherwise obtained fraudulently and/or in bad 
faith; or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
20 
2.2.6.2.2 
The permitted work is performed in violation of the terms and/or 
conditions of the permit, the requirements of the Code or any other applicable 
law; or 
2.2.6.2.3 
The Permittee fails to satisfactorily perform, in a timely manner, any 
obligation imposed by the permit or the Code; or 
2.2.6.2.4 
Such action is necessary to protect the highway facility, or otherwise 
protect the public health, safety and/or welfare; or 
2.2.6.2.5 
The Permittee is currently in default on the conditions of a previously 
issued permit or is currently in arrears on payment of damages to the 
Department, as specified under Section 2.1.2.3. 
2.2.6.3 The utility permit manager shall give the Permittee notice in writing pursuant to § 24-4-
104(3)(a), C.R.S., and afford the Permittee opportunity to submit a response and give the 
Permittee a reasonable opportunity to comply with all lawful requirements, except in 
cases of deliberate and willful violation or a substantial danger to public health and safety 
2.2.6.4 Immediate Suspension of Permit. Pursuant to § 24-4-104(4)(a), C.R.S., where the utility 
permit manager has objective and reasonable grounds to believe and finds, upon a full 
investigation, that the Permittee has been guilty of deliberate and willful violation or that 
the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency action and 
incorporates the findings in its order, the utility permit manager may summarily suspend 
the permit pending proceedings for suspension or revocation which shall be promptly 
instituted and determined. For purposes of immediately suspending a permit, full 
investigation means a reasonable ascertainment of the underlying facts on which the 
agency action is based. 
2.2.6.5 Proceedings for Denial, Suspension, Modification or Revocation of Permit 
2.2.6.5.1 
Pursuant to § 24-4-104(3)(a), C.R.S., the utility permit manager shall 
give the applicant or Permittee: 
2.2.6.5.1.1 
Notice in writing that specifies in what respect the Applicant or 
Permittee has failed to comply with state and or federal law or these 
Rules; 
2.2.6.5.1.2 
If requested by the applicant or Permittee, a reasonable 
opportunity to comply with all lawful requirements; and 
2.2.6.5.1.3 
Notice of the right to request a hearing. 
2.2.6.5.2 
Pursuant to § 24-4-104(10), C.R.S., written notice of the denial, 
revocation, suspension, limitation, or modification of a permit and the grounds for 
the action shall be served promptly on the Permittee personally or by mailing by 
first-class mail to the last address furnished to the Department by the applicant or 
Permittee. The notice must also be sent on the same day via email to the 
applicant or Permittee's last known email address. 
2.2.7 
Hearings 
2.2.7.1 The utility owner may request a hearing regarding the CDOT utility permit manager's 
decision respecting the renewal, denial, revocation, suspension, limitation or modification 
of a permit, pursuant to the provisions of § 24-4-104, C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
21 
2.2.7.2 A request for hearing shall comply with the following provisions: 
2.2.7.2.1 
The request for an administrative hearing shall be submitted to the Chief 
Engineer within 60 days of receipt of personal service or first-class mail and 
email of written notice of denial or transmittal of the permit for signature. A 
request for a hearing shall be submitted to the Chief Engineer at the Colorado 
Department of Transportation. 
2.2.7.2.2 
Upon proper request by the utility owner, a hearing shall be held within 
ninety (90) days of the receipt of the request unless otherwise agreed upon. 
2.2.7.3 Pursuant to § 24-4-105(2)(a), C.R.S., the Department shall give a Notice of Hearing to 
the utility owner of the time, place, and nature of the hearing, the legal authority and 
jurisdiction under which it is to be held, and the matters of fact and law asserted, at least 
60 days prior to the hearing. The Notice of Hearing shall be served personally or by 
mailing by first-class mail to the last address provided to the Department. 
2.2.7.4 The Chief Engineer shall appoint a Hearing Board consisting of three or more persons to 
preside over the hearing, at least one of which will have experience with utility issues 
within the SH ROW. Hearing Board members may serve on a Hearing Board more than 
once. The Chief Engineer shall select, from among the Hearing Board members, a 
chairperson who shall direct the proceedings, and shall assign a Department employee 
as a non-voting Hearing Board secretary, who will accomplish the Hearing Board’s 
administrative duties. 
2.2.7.4.1 
The Hearing Board shall have authority and the hearing shall be 
conducted pursuant to § 24-4-105, C.R.S. Each side shall have 30 minutes in 
which to present their case, beginning with the utility owner, and the utility owner 
shall have 15 minutes in which to rebut the Department’s presentation. The 
Hearing Board may opt to hear opening and closing statements, and may ask 
questions of either party. If requested, the Hearing Board may, but is not required 
to, extend the allotted times. Each party may have an attorney present their case, 
solely at their own expense. Any attorney who is a witness may not act as 
counsel for the party calling the attorney as a witness. 
2.2.7.4.2 
The Hearing Board shall electronically record the proceedings but must 
hold the hearing before a certified court reporter. 
2.2.7.4.3 
The utility shall have the burden of proof, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, relating to the Department’s decision regarding the utility permit. 
2.2.7.4.4 
Within 10 days of the hearing, the Hearing Board shall make a 
recommendation to the Chief Engineer regarding the validity of the Department’s 
action on the utility permit. The recommendation shall be in writing and contain a 
Statement of Findings and Conclusions upon all the material issues of fact, law 
or discretion presented by the record and shall enter an appropriate order 
sanctioning or denying relief. The recommendation shall not be binding on the 
Chief Engineer. 
2.2.7.4.5 
The Chief Engineer shall take the recommendation of the Hearing Board 
under advisement and shall make a final decision on the utility permit within 30 
days of receipt of the recommendation. The decision of the Chief Engineer shall 
be in writing and sent to all parties via email and first class mail. The decision of 
the Chief Engineer shall be the final agency action of the Department pursuant to 
§§ 24-4-105 and 24-4-106, C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
22 
2.2.7.4.6 
Petitions for Declaratory Orders pursuant to § 24-4-105(11), C.R.S., may 
be considered by the Chief Engineer on any issues within the jurisdiction of the 
Commission and the Department. 
2.3 
Installation, Operation and Maintenance 
2.3.1 
Construction and Inspection 
2.3.1.1 The permittee shall keep a copy of the completed utility permit, including accepted plans, 
accepted TCP, insurance and other required attachments at the accommodation work 
site at all times. All such documents and all the utility accommodation work shall be 
subject to Department review at all reasonable times. 
2.3.1.2 Permittee shall not proceed with any work covered by a conditional permit pursuant to 
Section 2.2.3.5 without express written Department permission. 
2.3.1.3 An approved permit will specify the completion date for all the accommodation work, 
which work shall include final cleanup. The permittee shall not perform any work after that 
date without the prior written Department approval. A permit shall expire automatically if 
the construction work approved therein has not commenced within the timeframe 
established in the permit or approved time extensions(s). 
2.3.1.4 The permittee shall provide notice to the Department at the following times: 
2.3.1.4.1 
at least two working days prior to commencing work, or resuming 
operations which have been suspended for five or more consecutive working 
days; and 
2.3.1.4.2 
promptly upon completion of the work; or 
2.3.1.4.3 
when otherwise specified in the permit or as ordered by the Department. 
2.3.1.5 The Department may designate an inspector during permit operations, to assist with 
coordinating the work and inspect the work during progress and upon completion. 
2.3.1.6 The Department shall determine the extent of necessary inspection services. 
2.3.1.7 Remediation of any unacceptable work under the approved permit shall be as ordered by 
the Department and completed in a timely manner prior to any further work, as 
determined by the Department. 
2.3.1.8 The permittee shall attend a final site inspection, as directed by the Department. 
2.3.1.9 The permittee shall comply with all requirements related to the performance of planned or 
ongoing highway construction work in the same area of the SH ROW, in order to 
coordinate the performance of any such work and minimize public inconvenience and 
cost. 
2.3.1.10 
When utility operations encounter areas of previously unknown historical or 
ecological significance, the permittee shall immediately avoid any further disturbance 
thereof, and shall promptly notify and follow any subsequent Department and/or other 
applicable Federal, State or local agency rules and regulations.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
23 
2.3.1.11 
If utility operations cause or observe hazardous materials spills or unauthorized 
discharges, the permittee shall immediately notify the Department and any other 
interested Federal, State and local agencies. If the utility construction causes an 
unauthorized discharge that may potentially enter into the Department’s Municipal 
Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4), operations must cease until the discharge has 
been properly contained and the appropriate corrective measures have been 
implemented. An unauthorized discharge is any discharge to a municipal separate storm 
sewer that is not composed entirely of stormwater, CDPS permitted discharges and 
allowable non-stormwater discharges. 
2.3.1.12 
If utility operations are not being carried out in compliance with the terms 
and conditions of the permit, the Department shall order the utility to perform 
whatever corrective measures are necessary to attain compliance. If there is an 
imminent danger to the public’s health, safety or welfare, the Department shall 
order the utility to cease all operations, and if necessary, to remove all equipment 
and facilities from the SH ROW. 
2.3.1.13 
If no permit has been issued for utility work in the SH ROW, the 
Department shall order the utility to immediately cease all operations until such 
time as a permit is obtained. If deemed by the Department to be necessary for 
the public’s health, safety or welfare, the Department shall order the utility to 
remove all equipment and/or facilities from the SH ROW. The permit issued for 
the work may include whatever terms and conditions necessary to correct any 
improperly performed work and attain Code compliance. 
2.3.2 
Plan Revisions or Altered Work 
2.3.2.1 The permittee shall not revise the plans or methods of performing the work covered in the 
permit without prior written Department permission. 
2.3.2.2 The permittee shall promptly notify the Department of any desired changes, or if site 
conditions are encountered which may require changes. 
2.3.2.3 The Department may accept and/or order minor changes in the plans and/or methods 
that are within the scope of the existing permit. 
2.3.2.4 The permittee must apply for, and receive a new or revised permit before performing any 
major change(s) in the work. Permittee will be required to provide the Department with 
“As-Constructed” plans when alterations are made as per Section 3.3.4.6 herein. 
2.3.3 
Operation and Maintenance 
2.3.3.1 The permittee shall operate and maintain all utility facilities in SH ROW in accordance 
with the permit, either the initial permit or any subsequent individual or annual 
maintenance permit, and in a manner that does not impair traffic safety or unreasonably 
interfere with the operation and maintenance of the State highway or SH ROW. 
2.3.3.2 A permit will describe the scope of work and conditions thereto, and of maintenance 
activities that may be performed without prior notice to and/or Department approval. The 
permittee shall provide written notice to, and if necessary obtain a new permit from, the 
Department before performing any maintenance not expressly covered in the permit. 
2.3.3.3 The Department shall be given proper advance notice, as specified in the permit, 
whenever maintenance work will affect the movement and/or safety of traffic.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
24 
2.3.3.4 To determine if the permittee must obtain a new permit for maintenance activities, the 
Department shall consider all relevant factors, including: extent and duration of the work, 
traffic control requirements and required construction or excavation within SH ROW. 
2.3.3.5 The permittee shall provide reasonable advance written notice before performing 
maintenance work which is confined to areas beyond the traveled way and contiguous 
shoulders, which does not require new excavation or construction, and which does not 
require the active control or rerouting of traffic, and temporary lane closures where utility 
facilities must be serviced from within the traveled way, provided that the traffic control 
plan in the original permit addresses such closures. Forty-eight (48) hours of notice is 
required for all non-emergency work requiring temporary lane closure(s). 
2.3.3.6 Emergency repairs not affecting the movement or safety of traffic may be performed with 
reasonable notice to the Department as provided herein. The permittee shall notify the 
Department soon after the repairs are completed, and shall comply with the terms of the 
initial permit for the facility, as well as any subsequent permit issued to cover site 
restoration activities. If emergency repairs will affect the movement or safety of traffic, the 
permittee shall, before commencing such repairs, notify the Department and the 
appropriate law enforcement agency to coordinate traffic safety measures. The permittee 
shall notify the Department soon after the repairs are completed, and shall comply with 
the terms of the initial permit for the facility, as well as any subsequent permit issued to 
cover site restoration activities. 
2.3.3.7 If the utility facility unreasonably interferes with or impairs any necessary highway 
function, the permittee shall, upon reasonable notice from the Department, shut off utility 
lines, remove combustible or hazardous materials from SH ROW, provide necessary 
temporary safeguards and take other appropriate actions as directed by the Department. 
2.3.3.8 The permittee shall provide written notice to the Department and obtain written 
permission prior to any change in the carrying capacity of the utility’s facility before 
implementing such change. 
2.3.3.9 The permittee shall contact the Department immediately if, during any operation and 
maintenance procedure, an illicit discharge or improper connection is observed. 
2.3.4 
Safety Corrective Measures 
2.3.4.1 The permittee shall promptly perform any corrective safety measures that the 
Department, after consultation with the utility owner and others, deems necessary to 
protect the public health, safety or welfare and has notified the permittee in writing 
thereof. 
2.3.4.2 The permittee’s performance of the safety corrective measures shall conform with the 
Code. 
2.3.4.3 When the public health, safety or welfare require that any corrective measures be 
performed immediately, and if the permittee is unable or unwilling to take such action, the 
Department may perform those corrective measures, pending a determination of 
responsibility and an allocation of cost for that performance.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
25 
2.3.5 
Utility Relocations Initiated by the Department 
2.3.5.1 The utility shall relocate its existing facilities when the Department provides reasonable 
notice to the utility in writing that the relocation is necessary due to a transportation 
project or other transportation purpose. The notice shall include all available and relevant 
information including the Department’s planned timeframe within which the utility 
relocation work must be completed. If the relocation of the company’s facilities is 
necessitated by a transportation project, the Department shall provide written notice to 
the utility. 
2.3.5.2 When the utility owner is required to relocate existing utility facilities, the utility owner 
shall assist the Department to develop schedules and alternatives concerning the new 
location of the facilities. The Department will consider the impact of new transportation 
projects on existing utilities during project development. 
2.3.5.3 The utility shall relocate its facilities in compliance with all terms of the permit. The permit 
shall be prepared using the Department’s prescribed forms. 
2.3.5.4 The utility shall perform the relocation at or within a time convenient to, and in proper 
coordination with, the project or transportation-related activity, to minimize public 
inconvenience and cost, as directed by the Department. 
2.3.5.5 Every permit shall be contingent upon and subject to the right of the Department to 
require the utility, upon reasonable written notice, to relocate facilities as necessary for 
any transportation purpose. 
2.3.5.6 Relocations associated with Design-Build Contracts shall conform to the provisions of 
Part 14 of Article 1, Title 43, C.R.S. 
2.3.5.7 Utility relocation cost responsibilities are described in Section 2.1.2. 
2.3.6 
Illegal or Nonconforming Installations or Activities 
2.3.6.1 The utility owner shall, after receiving written notice from the Department: promptly 
remove any utility facility which was constructed, installed, revised or relocated without a 
utility permit or in violation of the terms of a permit after the effective date of the Code, 
immediately cease all unauthorized utility activities, promptly perform remedial actions to 
attain compliance with the terms and conditions of a permit that was issued after the 
effective date of the Code, and immediately suspend the permitted 
operation/maintenance of the facility when it is determined that the permittee has 
committed a deliberate and willful violation of the Code or permit and the public safety, 
health or welfare require emergency action. 
2.3.6.2 Remedial actions, concerning utility accommodations that existed prior to the effective 
date of the Code, are subject to the provisions of Section 1.3.10. 
2.3.7 
Abandonment, Retirement, Change in Ownership 
2.3.7.1 The utility shall notify the Department in writing of the planned inactivation of a facility or 
any portion thereof, including plans for removing the facility, or submit a request to retire 
or abandon the facility in-place.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
26 
2.3.7.2 The Department may allow a retired facility to remain in place. The retired facility shall 
remain the utility’s sole responsibility, and is subject to all provisions of the Code and all 
terms and conditions of the permit issued for that facility, including maintenance and 
relocation requirements. The Department shall notify the utility in writing when the 
facilities may be retired in place, along with any applicable special conditions. 
2.3.7.3 The utility shall promptly remove all abandoned facilities from the SH ROW and promptly 
restore the SH ROW to pre-existing or other conditions prescribed by the Department 
unless the Department in writing expressly allows the facility to remain in place. Written 
notice from the Department, allowing an abandoned facility to remain in place, may 
include special conditions. 
2.3.7.4 In determining whether to allow abandoned or retired facilities to remain in place, the 
Department may consider such factors as: present or potential congestion of utility 
installations, highway construction and/or maintenance requirements, cost and/or 
difficulty of removal, presence of hazardous materials such as asbestos, the potential for 
the facilities removal by the Department at some future date, and traffic and/or safety 
requirements. 
2.3.7.5 The Department will notify the utility in writing of the determination if and/or when the 
facilities must be removed. 
2.3.7.6 If utility facilities are retired or abandoned in place, the Department may require the utility 
to: cap, plug or fill lines, furnish suitable location records for any such buried facilities, 
maintain records of such facilities and respond to locate notices and requests from the 
UNCC or others. In providing such services, the utility shall indicate to the requesting 
entity whether or not the subject facilities are retired or abandoned, perform any other 
actions as deemed necessary by the Department to protect the transportation facility or 
the traveling public. 
2.3.7.7 When transferring ownership of utility facilities, both the original permittee and the new 
owner shall notify the Department in writing prior to the change, and such notice shall 
indicate the planned date of change. The notice from the new owner shall include a 
written statement accepting all terms and conditions of the existing permit, effective upon 
the planned date of ownership change. 
2.3.7.8 Utility facilities containing asbestos shall not be retired in-place without the express 
written permission of the Department with the utility owner retaining full legal 
responsibility for the facilities. 
3.0 
ACCOMMODATION STANDARDS 
3.1 
General 
3.1.1 
Use of Highways for Non-Highway Purposes - Utilities may only be accommodated within SH 
ROW when such accommodations do not adversely affect highway or traffic safety, or otherwise 
impair the highway or its aesthetic quality, and do not conflict with the provisions of Federal, 
State, or local laws or regulations. 
3.1.2 
Utilities Which Serve a Highway Purpose 
3.1.2.1 The applicability of the Code’s location standards will be addressed in the service 
agreement. 
3.1.2.2 The Department reserves the right to amend or waive Code requirements.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
27 
3.1.3 
Joint Use Utility Facilities 
3.1.3.1 Utilities shall implement joint use design alternatives where the Department determines it 
is necessary or prudent for the safe and efficient use of the SH ROW, especially in 
developing areas subject to a proliferation of individual utility installations. When so 
directed by the Department, the permittee is responsible for proper coordination with 
other affected utilities. Joint use facilities shall comply with all applicable industry 
guidelines and standards. 
3.1.4 
Utility Permit Standard and Special Provisions - Effect 
3.1.4.1 Utility owner shall comply with all permit terms and conditions, including but not limited to, 
permit standard provisions, and any designated as special provisions. 
3.1.5 
Liability Insurance and Indemnification 
3.1.5.1 The utility owner shall ensure that all permitted operations, whether performed by the 
utility owner or by subcontractors, are adequately and continuously covered by liability 
insurance. The types and minimum amounts of insurance acceptable to the Department 
will be specified in the permit application, and in the permit terms and conditions. It shall 
be the utility owner’s responsibility to ensure full compliance with this requirement and 
failure to do so shall constitute a violation of the permit conditions and expose the utility 
owner to damage claims resulting from the subcontractor’s operations within the SH 
ROW. 
3.1.5.2 Policies shall name the Department, and the state of Colorado as an additional insured 
party, and provide for advance notification to both in the event of cancellation of 
coverage. This requirement is not applicable to other government entities. 
3.1.5.3 Before commencing any work on any SH ROW, the utility owner shall furnish or cause to 
be furnished certificates of insurance in a form satisfactory to the Department certifying 
that the policies are in full force and effect. Insurance documentation shall be available on 
site at all times during the work. 
3.1.5.4 Utilities that frequently operate within highway ROW may, with the Department’s 
concurrence, annually or semi-annually file appropriate insurance documentation which 
demonstrates adequate and continual coverage of all permit operations. 
3.1.5.5 To the extent authorized by the law, the utility shall hold harmless the Department, its 
employees and agents, against any action for personal injury or property damage caused 
by or growing out of any act or omission regarding the use or occupancy of SH ROW by 
the utility owner or by the utility’s facilities. 
3.1.6 
Right of Way Considerations 
3.1.6.1 In the location and design of its facilities, utility owners shall consider the need to 
conserve space for the future accommodation of other utility facilities, anticipate future 
expansion requirements and, when feasible, install additional carrying capacity to meet 
such needs. Utility owners shall enter into joint use arrangements with other utilities 
whenever feasible, and shall design facilities so as to minimize interference with the 
operation or maintenance of other pre-existing utility facilities. 
3.1.6.2 The Department may deny a proposed utility use or occupancy of the SH ROW, based 
on highway user needs, safety or other criteria as set forth in 23 C.F.R. 645 B.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
28 
3.1.6.3 When the highway is adjacent to agricultural lands, the Department may deny a proposed 
utility use or occupancy of the SH ROW, but only when such denial is consistent with the 
provisions of 23 C.F.R. 645.211(c). 
3.1.7 
Environmental Compliance 
3.1.7.1 The utility owner shall comply with the “Colorado Air Quality Control Act,” Title 25, Article 
7, C.R.S., and regulations promulgated thereunder. 
3.1.7.2 Utility operations shall comply with the maximum permissible noise levels and related 
requirements, prescribed in § 25-12-103, C.R.S. 
3.1.7.3 The utility owner shall minimize the generation of hazardous wastes as defined in § 25-
15-101(9), C.R.S. resulting from permitted operations, shall promptly remove any such 
wastes from SH ROW, and shall arrange for the proper treatment, storage, reuse, and/or 
disposal of such wastes in accordance with the provisions of Title 25, Article 15, C.R.S., 
and regulations promulgated thereunder. 
3.1.7.4 As directed, the utility shall perform an appropriate environmental site assessment to 
determine whether a proposed buried installation would facilitate the underground 
migration of hazardous wastes from a known site and, if so, shall employ construction 
methods, as directed or accepted by the Department, to prevent such migration. 
3.1.7.5 The utility shall comply with the “Colorado Water Quality Control Act,” Title 25, Article 8, 
C.R.S.; the “Protection of Fishing Streams,” Title 33, Article 5, C.R.S.; the “Clean Water 
Act,” with promulgated regulations and certifications issued. Temporary erosion and 
sediment control shall be provided in accordance with Sections 3.4.7 and 3.4.8. 
3.1.7.6 The utility shall comply with all requirements of an applicable permit and all special 
conditions thereto, issued by the US Army Corps of Engineers, when placing dredged or 
fill materials in waters of the US for utility line crossings, intake or outfall structures. 
3.1.7.7 When directed by the Department, the utility shall perform advance natural resources 
investigations in the vicinity of all proposed buried or above-ground installation, as 
necessary, to comply with the Endangered Species Act the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, 
and the Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act. Additionally, the utility shall coordinate 
with the Department and the Colorado Division of Parks and Wildlife a minimum of 90 
days in advance of construction within or adjacent to active stream channels in order to 
ensure compliance with § 33-5-101, C.R.S. The Permittee and the Department will share 
information whenever possible to assist in the compliance with this rule. 
3.1.7.8 The utility shall avoid construction or other activity in wetlands unless there is no 
practicable alternative to such construction or activity and provided that all practicable 
measures are taken to minimize harm to wetlands which may result from such use. The 
utility shall perform any permitted work in wetlands in accordance with the Code, Federal, 
State or local rules and regulations, and as directed by the Department. 
3.1.7.9 When directed by the Department, the utility shall perform advance cultural resources 
investigations, as necessary for the Department to comply with the “Colorado Historical, 
Prehistorical, and Archaeological Resources Act,” § 24-80-401, C.R.S., and the 
“Colorado Register of Historical Places Act,” § 24-80.1-101, C.R.S., which are 
incorporated by reference herein.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
29 
3.1.7.10 
Any cultural resources investigation required by Section 3.1.7.9 above shall be 
performed by a historian qualified through the Secretary of the Interior or an 
archaeologist possessing a valid permit from the Colorado Office of Archaeology and 
Historic Preservation, as required. Such investigations, and proposed mitigation if any, 
shall be subject to review and concurrence by the Colorado State Historic Preservation 
Officer. Any permit issued shall include all mitigation measures prescribed as a result of 
such investigations. 
3.1.7.11 
When directed by the Department, the utility shall perform advance 
paleontological resources investigations in the vicinity of a proposed buried installation, 
as necessary for the Department to comply with the Colorado Historical, Prehistorical, 
and Archaeological Resources Act, Title 24, Article 80, C.R.S. Any paleontological 
resources investigation required shall be performed by a paleontologist permitted by the 
Colorado Office of Archaeology and Historic Preservation. Such investigations, and 
proposed mitigation if any, shall be subject to review and concurrence by the 
Department. Any permits shall include all mitigations prescribed as a result of such 
investigations. 
3.1.7.12 
For utilities that lie within any MS4 permit boundaries, the owner of such utility 
shall contact the state or local entities that have been issued an MS4 permit regarding 
stormwater-related compliance requirements under the entity’s MS4 permit. 
3.1.7.13 
The utility shall comply with all applicable CDPHE water quality rules and 
regulations. The utility shall contact the CDPHE to obtain a CDPS permit, if required, for 
any type of discharge, including but not limited to the following: construction site 
stormwater runoff, stormwater from industrial sites, drainage from utility line casings, 
construction dewatering, hydrostatic testing water, equipment wash water or rinse 
operations water, effluent from industrial treatment plants, and effluent from municipal 
wastewater treatment facilities. 
3.1.7.14 
Prohibited non-storm water discharges that enter into the storm sewer system 
must be reported to the CDOT Water Quality Program Manager immediately upon 
discovery and repaired as soon as possible. Any spills which do not enter the storm 
sewer system shall be, at a minimum, referred to the Department. 
3.1.7.15 
The utility shall notify the Department of breaks or damage to any pipes owned 
by either the utility or by other entities, arising from the utility’s permitted operations. The 
utility shall notify CDPHE if the break may lead to contaminated material or pollutants 
entering the Department’s right of way and which may have the potential to reach State 
Waters. The utility shall be responsible for the prompt reconstruction and repair of 
damaged pipe, environmental cleanup, restoration and damages as required by the 
Department and CDPHE-WQCD, and any other regulatory agencies. 
3.1.7.16 
The utility shall perform concrete washout in accordance with approved 
Department guidelines, as explained in the Environmental Clearances Information 
Summary of the Permit. 
3.1.7.17 
Prohibited non-stormwater discharges include, but are not limited to, substances 
such as paint, automotive fluids, hydraulic fluids, solvents, oils or soaps. 
3.1.7.18 
The utility owner will comply with regulations established by the CDPHE, and/or 
policies established by the Department, pertaining to the handling and disposal of 
asbestos and asbestos-containing-materials, including applicable air quality permitting 
requirements, as explained in the Environmental Clearances Information Summary of the 
Permit.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
30 
3.1.7.19 
If the utility owner is aware of the presence of mine tailings within the project site 
of a proposed facility installation, they shall so indicate on their permit application. If 
unexpected mine tailings are encountered during work, the utility shall immediately 
contact the Department. The utility owner shall comply with any special provisions 
pertaining to the handling, disposal, containment or monitoring of mine tailings as 
specified in their permit, or as directed by CDPHE or the Department. 
3.1.7.20 
It is the responsibility of utility owners to contact appropriate environmental 
regulatory agencies and obtain all environmental clearances and/or permits required for 
their activities. All required clearances or permits must be obtained prior to commencing 
work within the SH ROW. To the extent that the Department is made aware of any 
specific required environmental clearance or permit during the utility permit application 
review process, by either the permittee or the implementing environmental regulatory 
agency, the Department will include a special permit provision requiring that those 
specific clearances/permits be obtained prior to commencing work. 
3.1.8 
Aesthetic Considerations 
3.1.8.1 Utility facility designs shall consider measures to preserve or enhance landscaping, 
vegetation, scenic and/or other aesthetic features of the highway and contiguous 
surroundings. 
3.1.8.2 A utility installation shall not unreasonably detract from the scenic or aesthetic qualities 
inherent to the highway, and shall not block scenic views in any manner. 
3.1.8.3 The utility shall utilize architectural considerations and colors that fit into the topography 
and blend with nature, as directed or approved by the Department. 
3.1.8.4 New utility installations in scenic areas are subject to the criteria of Section 3.2.3 of the 
Code. 
3.1.9 
Closure Requirements 
3.1.9.1 The submission of the As-Constructed plan shall meet all of the requirements set forth in 
Section 3.3.4.6.2 absent express approval to be excluded from the requirement to submit 
plans in the specified electronic file format. 
3.1.9.2 The submission of the As-Constructed plan shall be accompanied by an email notification 
from the Utility requesting that the Permit be closed. 
3.1.9.3 The Department shall accept or not accept the work under the Permit upon inspection. 
3.1.9.4 When accepted, the Department shall issue a final acceptance of the work by letter. 
3.1.9.5 Permittee shall be responsible for continued maintenance responsibilities pursuant to 
Section 3.4.8.8 for the elements of the highway facility impacted under the Permit until 
such time that the Department issues its final acceptance of the work pursuant to Section 
3.1.9. 
3.1.9.6 Final acceptance of the work shall begin the two-year warranty period and maintenance 
responsibilities pursuant to Section 3.4.8.8. 
3.1.9.7 Failure to provide the Department with an “As-Constructed” plan when required as well 
as the Closure request will result in a delay of the final acceptance of the work.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
31 
3.1.9.8 Failure to provide the Department with an “As-Constructed” plan and the Closure request 
will: 
3.1.9.8.1 
Result in the delay other permit requests, see Section 2.1.2.3.2; and 
3.1.9.8.2 
Constitute a failure to perform an obligation imposed by the Permit or 
Code pursuant to Section 2.2.6.2.4. 
3.2 
Restricted Uses 
3.2.1 
New Above Ground Installations 
3.2.1.1 New above ground utility installations on SH ROW shall be located as far as possible 
from the traveled way, preferably along the ROW line. 
3.2.1.2 New above ground installations shall not be permitted within the clear zone, as 
determined in accordance with Section 3.3.3, unless the Department determines that 
undergrounding is unfeasible or unreasonably costly, and that no feasible alternatives 
exist. If permitted, the utility shall employ appropriate countermeasures to reduce 
hazards, as determined in accordance with Section 3.3.3.4. 
3.2.1.3 Ground-mounted radio or telecommunication facilities including relay and repeater 
stations which must be housed in a building structure shall not be permitted on SH ROW 
unless the Department determines that feasible alternative locations are unavailable. The 
Department reserves the right to allow smaller, pole-mounted repeaters and 
telecommunications boosters within the highway right-of-way, subject to the same clear 
zone requirements applicable to other above-ground installations. 
3.2.2 
Accommodations on Expressway, Freeway and Interstate ROW 
3.2.2.1 Utility accommodations within expressway, freeway and Interstate ROW shall be subject 
to additional requirements not generally applicable on other highways. 
3.2.2.2 Utilities may be accommodated within frontage road areas of such ROW without 
complying with the requirements of this Section, if the frontage road areas can be 
accessed, for constructing and servicing the utility, from beyond the fully access 
controlled portion of that ROW. “Frontage road areas” will be delineated by a fence, 
access, or barrier line established between the frontage road and the expressway, 
freeway or Interstate mainline or ramps. 
3.2.2.3 Except as provided in Section 3.2.2.6 below, utility accommodations within CDOT ROW 
shall comply with all applicable federal and state laws, local rules or regulations, and the 
requirements set forth in this Utility Code. 
3.2.2.4 Utilities crossing freeway ROW, and all installations within or traversing interchange 
areas, shall conform with the requirements set forth by the FHWA, and with the following 
requirements: 
3.2.2.4.1 
Trenchless construction methods for buried line crossings shall be 
utilized for the full width between access lines, except that the Department may 
permit trenches within medians or beyond the outer roadway shoulders if it finds 
that other installation methods are impractical, and if adequate safeguards for 
workers and highway users are provided.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
32 
3.2.2.4.2 
Pavement cuts shall not be permitted on freeways, expressways, or 
interstates, unless approved by the Department. 
3.2.2.5 Except as provided in Section 3.2.2.6 below, new utilities shall not be permitted to be 
installed longitudinally within the access control lines of expressway, freeway, and 
Interstate ROW, unless special extenuating circumstances exist, as determined by the 
Department, and only under all of the following conditions: 
3.2.2.5.1 
The utility can be installed underground with minimal effort and 
disturbance, and will not require frequent maintenance. 
3.2.2.5.2 
The utility shall be installed along the outer edge of the ROW in a utility 
strip established by the Department. 
3.2.2.5.3 
Longitudinal utility installations shall not be permitted within the median. 
3.2.2.6 Notwithstanding other provisions of this Section, and subject to the provisions of §§ 43-1-
1201, C.R.S., et. seq., the “Public Private Initiatives Program,” the Department's 
accommodation plan and the express approval of the Commission, and if it is on the 
interstate, also with the express approval of the FHWA, the Department may solicit and 
/or enter into agreement(s) with telecommunication provider(s) for the longitudinal 
installation of wireline and/or wireless telecommunication facilities within expressway, 
freeway or Interstate ROW. 
3.2.2.7 Service connections to adjacent properties shall not be permitted from longitudinal utility 
installations located within the access control lines of an expressway, freeway, and 
interstate ROW. Service connections across the full width between access control lines 
may be permitted in areas where utility services are not available within reasonable 
distance along the side of the freeway where the service is needed. 
3.2.2.8 Access for constructing and servicing utilities shall conform with permit conditions and the 
following Code requirements: 
3.2.2.8.1 
If access to or from the through roadways or connecting ramps is 
permitted, the permit must include provisions for vehicles to safely enter or leave 
the traveled way without impairing the flow of traffic. At interchange areas, such 
access shall be only from along lower-speed ramp sections. 
3.2.2.8.2 
Temporary lane closures may be permitted only when no other feasible 
alternative exists, and only as allowed by Region lane closure policy. 
3.2.2.8.3 
A locked gate along the freeway, expressway, and interstate fence may 
be permitted to meet periodic service access needs if the Department determines 
that other access alternatives are impractical and that the gate does not interfere 
with freeway, expressway, and interstate operations. If permitted, such gate shall 
be secure from unauthorized use and shall under no circumstance be utilized for 
direct access to or from the freeway, expressway, and interstate mainline or 
ramps. If a gate is to be located along the freeway, expressway, and interstate 
ROW line, the utility must also obtain and comply with the terms of a temporary 
access crossing license issued by the Department pursuant to § 43-2-147, 
C.R.S. 
3.2.2.9 The utility shall not access any area within freeway, expressway, and interstate ROW 
without prior notification and written approval of the Department.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
33 
3.2.3 
New Installations Within or Adjacent to Scenic and Historic Areas and Byways 
3.2.3.1 A new utility installation on a highway, or on land acquired or improved with highway 
funds, which is located within or adjacent to areas of scenic enhancement or natural 
beauty, may be permitted. Such installation shall not require extensive removal or 
alteration of trees or other natural features visible to the highway user or impair the visual 
quality of lands being traversed. For a proposed new aerial installation, the Department 
must find that other locations are not available or are unusually difficult and costly, are 
less desirable from the standpoint of aesthetic quality, that undergrounding is not feasible 
or is unreasonably costly, and that the proposed installations will be made at a location 
and employ suitable designs and materials which give the greatest weight to the 
aesthetic qualities of the area to be covered. 
3.2.3.2 Areas of scenic enhancement or natural beauty may include but are not limited to scenic 
strips, overlooks, rest areas, landscaped areas, public park and recreation lands, wildlife 
and waterfowl refuges, native roadside trees, and historic districts and sites. 
3.2.4 
Private Lines 
3.2.4.1 Private line crossings of SH ROW may be permitted, subject to the same location and 
design requirements of the Code applicable to utility line crossings. 
3.2.4.2 Longitudinal installations of private lines shall be subject to a determination by the 
Department and the FHWA that the proposed accommodation is in the public interest and 
will not impair the highway or interfere with the free and safe flow of traffic thereon. 
3.2.4.3 For private crossings, shut-offs may be required adjacent to the ROW in case of 
emergency. Private line owners shall have markers on the shut-offs with an emergency 
contact number. 
3.2.4.4 For maintenance work on line crossings or longitudinal installations of private lines, the 
private line owner shall obtain a permit from the Department. 
3.3 
Location and Design Requirements 
3.3.1 
General Location Requirements 
3.3.1.1 The utility shall locate all facilities in accordance with the horizontal and vertical clearance 
requirements set forth in the Code. 
3.3.1.2 The utility shall locate longitudinal installations on a reasonably uniform alignment as 
near as practical to the SH ROW line. Except as otherwise provided in Sections 3.3.1.3 
and 3.3.1.4 below, the utility shall not locate longitudinal installations within median 
areas, traveled ways, shoulders, or under curbs or sidewalks. 
3.3.1.3 Except as provided in Section 3.3.1.4 below, the utility shall locate a buried longitudinal 
installation not less than 15 feet beyond the edge of pavement or back of curb to avoid 
potential conflict with highway signs, guardrail, or other appurtenances. If there is no 
feasible alternative to longitudinal placement outside of this 15 foot zone, the Department 
may, as a condition of approval, specify from among the following safeguards: increased 
cover depth to 60 inches in lieu of additional mechanical protection, require a concrete 
cap, Class B or better, with a minimum 4 inches thickness, the full width of the installation 
trench, require concrete encasement, Class B or better, minimum 2 inches on all sides, 
or require encasement in 0.25 inch wall thickness steel conduit, or other acceptable 
material.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
34 
3.3.1.4 The Department may allow longitudinal placement of buried utility lines beneath present 
and planned median areas, traveled ways, shoulders, or under curbs or sidewalks, when 
the State highway is also part of a local street system, subject to municipal regulations, 
and/or when the State highway is within an urban area as defined by the Code. 
3.3.1.5 Where utility facilities are permitted to cross the highway, the utility shall install the 
facilities on a line perpendicular to the highway alignment. 
3.3.1.6 The utility owner shall not install underground facilities in the following locations: in deep 
cuts, ditch flow lines, near footings of bridges and retaining walls, across intersections at 
grade or ramp terminals, at cross drains where flow of water, drift or stream bed may be 
obstructed, or within basins drained by a pump in wet or rocky terrain and difficult to 
attain minimum cover. 
3.3.2 
General Design Requirements 
3.3.2.1 The utility owner shall be responsible for the design of all utility facilities to be installed 
within SH ROW, subject to the provisions of the Code. 
3.3.2.2 The utility shall design its facilities to avoid unreasonable conflict with planned or 
programmed changes to existing highway facilities, as directed by the Department, so as 
to avoid such conflict. 
3.3.2.3 The utility facility shall be of durable materials in conformity with accepted practice or 
industry standards, designed for long service life and relatively free from routine servicing 
or maintenance. 
3.3.2.4 The utility shall design all utility installations to, at a minimum, meet the following 
requirements as applicable: electric power or communication facilities shall conform with 
all applicable Federal, State, and local jurisdiction codes, pipelines shall conform with the 
applicable provisions of industry standards and Federal and State rules and regulations, 
liquid petroleum pipelines shall conform with the recommended practice of the American 
Petroleum Institute for pipelines crossing under highways and railroads, pipelines 
carrying natural or other gas shall conform to the rules and regulations of the US 
Department of Transportation, Title 49, C.F.R., Part 192 which is incorporated herein by 
reference, and any pipeline carrying hazardous liquids shall conform to the rules and 
regulations of the US Department of Transportation governing the transportation of such 
materials, Title 49, C.F.R., Part 195, which is incorporated herein by reference. 
3.3.2.5 The utility owner shall design and construct all buried facilities, including pipelines, 
conduits and casings to withstand the full range of expected internal and external 
pressures and loads, including internal pressures ranging from maximum expected 
pressure to zero pressure, and external loads from the highway and superimposed 
vehicle loads. Pipelines shall also be designed and constructed to resist internal and 
external corrosion. 
3.3.2.6 All new utility facilities shall be free of asbestos and asbestos containing materials. 
3.3.2.7 The utility shall design and construct all utility facilities in conformance with the applicable 
provisions of all Federal and State laws. The utility also has the responsibility to 
determine whether any local jurisdiction codes apply.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
35 
3.3.3 
Clear Zone Requirements 
3.3.3.1 The utility shall maintain a clear zone in accordance with the AASHTO Roadside Design 
Guidelines unless otherwise permitted by the Department. 
3.3.3.2 The utility shall not keep, store, stockpile or allow to remain, either in the traveled way or 
in the clear zone of SH ROW, any utility accommodation work equipment, material or 
excavation or any other nontraversable hazard or fixed object. 
3.3.3.3 The clear zone shall be as follows: 
3.3.3.3.1 
In urban areas with barrier or vertical curbs and design speeds of 40 
MPH or less, a clear zone of fifteen (15) feet shall be provided wherever feasible. 
Where fifteen (15) feet cannot be provided, the clear zone shall extend beyond 
any adjacent sidewalks. In variance situations, the clear zone shall be not less 
than 2 feet beyond the front face of the curb for frangible objects and not less 
than 4’ beyond the front face of curb for rigid objects. Placement of utility related 
appurtenances shall likewise take into consideration the ADA lateral offset 
requirements for handicap accessibility which requires a minimum unobstructed 
sidewalk width of 48”. 
3.3.3.3.2 
In all areas without curbs, or with mountable curbs, and with design 
speeds of 40 MPH or less, a minimum clear zone of fifteen (15) feet shall be 
provided, unless otherwise permitted by the Department. 
3.3.3.3.3 
In all areas with design speeds of 45 MPH or greater, the AASHTO 
“Roadside Design Guide” shall be used to determine clear zone width. 
3.3.3.4 If the Department determines, in accordance with Section 3.2.1.2, that a new above 
ground installation may be permitted within the clear zone, the utility shall provide 
countermeasures as directed by the Department in the permit. Countermeasures may 
include: installation in locations which minimize exposure to out-of-control vehicles, use 
of breakaway features, use of impact attenuation devices, and use of delineation and/or 
shielding. High crash and/or high risk spot locations of fixed utility appurtenances within 
the clear zone shall not be permitted, such as along ditch flow lines and turning radii of 
intersecting roads or along the outside edge of horizontal curves. 
3.3.3.5 The location and design of traffic barriers and countermeasures shall comply with the 
AASHTO “Roadside Design Guide” as well as the Manual for Assessing Safety Hardware 
(MASH). 
3.3.3.6 All excavations shall be closed at the end of daily operations, and no unattended open 
excavation will be allowed within the clear zone after dark, unless otherwise permitted by 
the Department. 
3.3.4 
Utility Plans 
3.3.4.1 Along with a completed utility permit application and other associated documents, the 
utility shall submit detailed plans or detailed work sketch showing the location, character, 
dimensions and details of proposed construction. See 3.3.4.6 below. 
3.3.4.2 Any permit shall be subject to utility owner’s compliance with the plans accepted by the 
Department.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
36 
3.3.4.3 A Boring permit application shall include plan and profile information at the request of the 
Department, which may include vertical and horizontal offsets to all existing utilities, ROW 
line, and face of curb. 
3.3.4.4 The Department may issue a conditional permit if certain details of the plans must be 
completed after permit work starts, but the utility shall not start any work related to such 
details until accepted by the Department. 
3.3.4.5 After a permit is issued, all plan revisions shall conform with Section 2.3.2.3.3.4.6 
Required Documentation. 
3.3.4.6.1 
Record Set. When the engineering design requires the oversight of a 
licensed professional engineer, a sealed Record Set is required to be submitted 
to CDOT prior to the start of construction. The Architects, Professional 
Engineers, and Professional Land Surveyors Rules and Regulations, 4 CCR 730-
1, govern the sealing requirements of engineering documents. 
3.3.4.6.2 
As-Constructed Plan. The Department shall require the utility to submit 
“As-Constructed” plans within forty-five (45) days of completion of the work, 
which shows actual final surface and subsurface utilities, including location, 
alignment, profile, and depth. Such plans shall be of an electronic format 
compatible with Department software. The plans shall be in electronic PDF file 
format, 300 dpi, page aligned, searchable, compressed, and compliant with ISO 
PDF/A-1b or 1a. Additionally, geodetic datum of each structure shall be provided 
and include the depth of underground utilities, as specified in the Special 
Provisions of each Permit. Exceptions to this electronic submission requirement 
must be agreed upon by the Department in writing. 
3.3.4.6.3 
Survey Utility Plan Set. CDOT may require Survey Plans (as that term is 
defined above) for utility work. 
3.3.5 
Aerial and Ground-Mounted Electric and Communications Facilities 
3.3.5.1 The utility shall locate, where feasible, poles, guys, anchors, and related ground-mounted 
appurtenances near the ROW line and beyond embankment slopes. The utility shall not 
locate guy wires and stub poles between a pole and the traveled way where either guy 
wires or stub poles encroach upon the clear zone. 
3.3.5.2 Aerial longitudinal installations in SH ROW shall be limited to single pole construction. 
The Department shall not permit duplication of pole line construction on the same side of 
the highway. The utility must arrange for the joint use of single pole construction for aerial 
longitudinal locations where two or more utilities must utilize aerial facilities on the same 
side of the highway. 
3.3.5.3 The Department shall review and accept utility plans with respect to location, the manner 
in which the utility facility is to be installed, measures taken to preserve safe and free flow 
of traffic, structural integrity of the roadway, highway structure or appurtenance, aesthetic 
quality of the highway, ease of maintenance, future roadway expansion, and integrity of 
the utility facility. 
3.3.5.4 The vertical clearance for overhead power and communication lines above the highway, 
structure or ROW surface, and the lateral and vertical clearance from bridges shall 
conform with the clearances as shown below in Table 1.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
37 
3.3.5.5 The utility shall install overhead wires, conductors, and cables above the ROW surface in 
compliance with industry standards and Federal and State requirements referenced 
herein. The utility must also determine whether any local jurisdiction codes may apply at 
the time of design or installation. 
3.3.5.6 The minimum overhead clearance shall apply to conductors at maximum final sag 
conditions with specified thickness of ice at 32°F (no wind displacement), at 120°F (no 
wind displacement), or maximum conductor temperature for which the line was designed 
to operate, whichever produces the largest final sag. Additionally, the minimum overhead 
clearance must be maintained at the point where the conductor is nearest the roadway or 
ground surface, taking both sag of the line and variations in ground surface elevation into 
account. The minimum vertical clearances between the conductor and the structure, 
bridge, roadway or ground surface within the ROW shall be as listed in Table 1. 
TABLE 1 
Minimum Vertical Clearance Within Right-of-Way 
Type of Conductor, Cable & Voltage 
Over 
Roadway 
Template 
Outside 
Roadway 
Template 
Insulated communication conductors & cables; messengers; grounded 
or effectively insulated guys; effectively grounded neutral conductors; 
230C1 supply cables. 
24 ft. 
20 ft. 
Noninsulated communication conductors; supply cables 0-750 Volts 
(multiplex wire) 
24 ft. 
20.5 ft. 
Open Supply Conductors 0 - 750 Volts 
24 ft. 
21 ft. 
Open Supply Conductors >750 Volts to 22 kVolts 
25 ft. 
23 ft. 
Voltages exceeding 22 kVolts to 50 kVolts 
25 ft.* 
23 ft.* 
Voltages exceeding 50 kVolts 
25.5 ft.** 
23 ft.** 
* plus 0.4 inch per 1,000 Volts in excess of 22 kVolts 
** plus [0.4 inch per 1,000 Volts in excess of 22 kVolts] X [1.0 + (.03 per 1,000 feet above 3,300 feet above sea level)] or alternate 
method for voltages exceeding 98 kVolts 
Voltages are phase to ground for effectively grounded circuits and those other circuits where all ground faults are cleared by 
promptly de-energizing the faulted section, both initially and following subsequent breaker operations 
3.3.5.7 The utility may locate ground-mounted components of aerial facilities crossing the 
highway in highway median areas beyond the clear zone for both directions of travel with 
Department approval. 
3.3.6 
Underground Electric and Communications Facilities 
3.3.6.1 The utility shall place buried facilities in conduit at a cover depth of a minimum of 48 
inches or as otherwise directed by the Department.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
38 
3.3.6.2 Where the Department reasonably anticipates the utility will need to expand its future line 
capacity along the same alignment as the permitted facilities, the utility shall place spare 
conduit or duct, when directed in the permit, to accommodate such future needs and to 
avoid possible future disturbance to the highway or to traffic. 
3.3.6.3 The utility shall locate pedestals, or other ground mounted appurtenances to a buried 
facility as near as practicable to the ROW line or any applicable clear zone requirements. 
3.3.6.4 If the Department approves a variance for less than the minimum cover depth specified in 
Section 3.3.6.1 above, the utility shall provide sufficient protective measures to include 
encasement, capping, or sleeving of the facilities as provided in 3.3.11. 
3.3.7 
Water, Sanitary Sewer, Natural Gas, and Hydrocarbon Pipeline Facilities 
3.3.7.1 The utility shall install pipeline facilities at not less than the following minimum depths of 
cover: 
3.3.7.1.1 
water and sanitary sewer pipelines—4 feet 6 inches or the local frost 
penetration depth, whichever is greater, or as directed by the Department in the 
permit; and 
3.3.7.1.2 
natural gas transmission lines, mains, and service lines, and liquid 
hydrocarbon pipelines—48 inches, or as directed by the Department in the 
permit. 
3.3.7.2 The utility shall reroute, or protect the pipeline, as determined by the Department in 
accordance with Section 3.3.11, where less than the minimum cover described above is 
available for any reason, including conflict with other utilities, water table, or local codes. 
3.3.7.3 Joints in all pipelines operating under pressure shall be of mechanical or welded, or other 
leak-proof type of construction. The utility shall not use mortar, grout, or other Portland 
cement materials as pipeline joint sealants. 
3.3.7.4 The utility shall construct sanitary sewers of materials and install them in a manner that 
will minimize the potential for any leakage. Such sewer lines shall be located below and 
at a minimum of ten (10) feet horizontal separation between pipes from all water lines 
and storm sewer lines. Where sanitary sewers are located such that any leakage that 
might occur could reach surface waters, the utility shall establish a schedule for routine 
inspection of the sewer line. Any observed leaks from sanitary sewers within the SH 
ROW shall be reported to the CDOT Water Quality Manager and the Department 
immediately upon discovery and repaired as soon as possible. 
3.3.7.5 Sanitary sewers larger than 24 inches, lift stations, and other certain wastewater 
treatment facilities are subject to the design criteria, design review and approval of the 
CDPHE-WQCD. Other Federal, State and local jurisdiction codes may also apply. 
3.3.7.6 Potable water treatment facilities and certain related distribution system facilities are 
subject to the design criteria, design review and approval of the WQCD. Other Federal, 
State and local jurisdiction codes may also apply. 
3.3.7.7 Thrust blocks or mechanical joint restraints shall be required on all vertical and horizontal 
bends in pressure pipes. 
3.3.8 
Irrigation and Drainage Pipes, Ditches, Canals, Gravity-Fed Systems, and Stormwater Drainage 
Facilities

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
39 
3.3.8.1 Irrigation and drainage pipelines shall meet the applicable requirements of Section 3.3.7. 
The utility shall locate Gravity-Fed Systems, open ditches, and canals in conformance 
with the requirements of Sections 3.2.1 and 3.3.3 for above ground utility 
accommodations. 
3.3.8.2 Irrigation facilities shall be constructed as directed by the Department. 
3.3.8.3 Drainage pipelines carrying any type of wastewater effluent must be approved and 
receive a CDPS permit from the CDPHE-WQCD. 
3.3.8.4 Stormwater Drainage Facilities: The Code’s definition of “utility” includes “storm water not 
connected with highway drainage.” Stormwater facilities constructed within the SH ROW 
which carry stormwater originating outside of the SH ROW and pass through the SH 
ROW without any connection to highway drainage are subject to the provisions of the 
Code, including all permitting requirements. 
3.3.8.5 When a Department utility permit must be obtained to install or perform maintenance on 
storm drainage facilities, the design and construction of such facilities shall conform to 
Department standards and specifications. All plans must be accepted by the Department. 
Detailed design or construction requirements may be specified in the utility permit. 
3.3.8.6 Stormwater originating outside of the SH ROW which flows into the SH ROW and mixes 
with highway drainage is not a utility under the Code. 
3.3.8.7 Connections of other stormwater drainage systems to the Department highway drainage 
system shall be approved by the Department. A utility special use permit shall be 
required for the construction or maintenance of such facilities. 
3.3.9 
Highway Lighting Facilities 
3.3.9.1 Highway lighting facilities shall be designed in accordance with current standards, as 
directed by the Department. 
3.3.9.2 When operation and/or maintenance responsibilities for proposed SH ROW lighting will 
rest with a utility or local agency pursuant to law or agreement, the lighting facility shall be 
compatible with that entity’s system and inventories. 
3.3.10 Highway Structure Attachments 
3.3.10.1 
Utility facilities shall not be attached to highway structures, including but not 
limited to bridges, culverts, lighting supports, traffic signal poles, sign supports, or sign 
bridges without Department approval. Gas lines, sewer lines, or waterline connections, 
such as valves, shall not be allowed inside of box girders, tub girders, or within the 
concrete for concrete box culverts. 
3.3.10.2 
The utility shall design the proposed structure attachment individually for a 
specific highway structure. The Department’s Staff Bridge permission shall be required 
for all attachments to all bridges and structures in the SH ROW. Any attachment or 
modification shall not diminish the structural capacity or integrity of the structure. 
Attachments shall not inhibit the ability to inspect the bridge or its components.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
40 
3.3.10.3 
The utility shall locate the entire utility installation on a highway bridge or 
structure so as to not reduce the vertical or horizontal clearance otherwise available 
between the bridge or structure and any stream, pavement or rails. On water crossings 
by means of a bridge attachment, the utility line shall be no lower than the bottom of a 
stringer, and shall be located on the downstream side. 
3.3.10.4 
The utility shall insulate, ground, and carry communication and electric power line 
attachments in protective conduit or pipe from below the point of ground exit to below the 
point of ground re-entry. Carrier pipe and casing pipe shall be insulated from electric 
power lines. 
3.3.10.5 
Structure attachments shall conform with applicable protection requirements of 
Section 3.3.11. 
3.3.11 Encasement and Related Protection of Utility Lines 
3.3.11.1 
The utility shall protect buried utility lines and structure attachments, as follows: 
3.3.11.1.1 
Buried facilities which are subject to damage from construction or 
maintenance operations, as determined by the Department, may require 
additional protective measures, such as: a concrete cap, Class B or better, 
minimum 4 inches thickness, the full width of the installation trench; concrete 
encasement, Class B or better, minimum 2 inches on all sides; sleeving in 0.25 
inch wall thickness steel conduit, or other acceptable material; and/or a tunnel or 
gallery. 
3.3.11.1.2 
Where metal pipelines are installed in a corrosive environment and 
encasement is not employed, the utility shall demonstrate that the welded steel 
carrier pipe will provide sufficient strength to withstand the internal design 
pressure and the dead and live loads of the pavement structure and traffic. 
Additional protective measures shall include: heavier wall thickness, higher factor 
of safety in design, or both, adequate coating and wrapping in accordance with 
industry standards, cathodic protection, and the use of Barlow’s formula 
regarding maximum allowable operating pressure and wall thickness as specified 
in 49 C.F.R. Part 192.105. Corrosion protection shall be required for all steel 
carrier pipes. Cathodic protection shall be mandatory for natural gas and 
hazardous material pipelines in accordance with 49 C.F.R. Parts 192 and 195. 
3.3.11.1.3 
At locations subject to settlement or displacement, including but not 
limited to: areas of unstable ground, near highway structure footings, where the 
method of installation or use of flexible pipe may result in subsidence or reduced 
pavement support, a cradle or wall, casing pipe, concrete encasement, extra 
strength or heavy wall thickness pipe, or leak-proof construction shall be 
required. 
3.3.11.1.4 
Where water, high-pressure gas, or hazardous material pipelines are 
either in or suspended from a highway structure, a casing pipe may be required. 
3.3.11.2 
The utility shall utilize casing pipe when necessary to facilitate bored or jacked 
installations, to protect coated carrier pipes from damage during insertion, as a means of 
conveying leaking fluids or gases to points safely beyond the traveled way, when 
necessary to provide for the future adjustment, removal or replacement of the carrier line, 
or unless otherwise directed by the Department.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
41 
3.3.11.3 
Where a casing is required and the use of a metal casing could defeat the 
cathodic protection circuit applied to a carrier pipe, the utility shall take the protective 
measures determined by the Department to be appropriate in the circumstances, 
including: use of non-metallic casings, or use of carrier/ casing insulation systems, or 
cathodically protecting casing and carrier pipes as a unit. 
3.3.11.4 
The utility shall use tunnels or galleries when determined by the Department to 
be appropriate, such as where several utility lines must share a crossing location, as a 
provision for future increase in line size or additional lines, or as a means of inspecting 
carrier lines in the crossing. 
3.3.11.5 
On highway crossing installations, the utility shall extend any required protection 
at a minimum: beyond slope and ditch lines on uncurbed sections, or beyond the outer 
curbs on curbed sections or the full width between access control lines on expressways, 
freeways and Interstates. For installations other than crossings, the utility shall extend the 
protection as specified by the Department. 
3.3.12 Vents, Drains, Manholes, Valves and Appurtenances 
3.3.12.1 
The utility shall locate vents at the high end of casings that are less than one 
hundred and fifty (150) feet long. The utility shall locate vents at both ends of casings that 
are longer than one hundred and fifty (150) feet. The utility shall locate vent standpipes at 
a fence line or ROW line. 
3.3.12.2 
The utility shall provide drains for casings, tunnels, or galleries which enclose 
carriers of liquid, liquefied gas, or heavy gas. Drains for allowable non-stormwater 
discharges may outfall into roadside ditches or natural watercourses at locations 
approved by the Department, and as allowed by the CDPHE-WQCD. At outfalls for 
unallowable non-stormwater drains, the utility shall take all additional measures that are 
determined by the Department and the CDPHE-WQCD to be suitable to protect against 
possible soil and/or water contamination, such as construction of dikes or liner 
installation. Outfalls shall not be used as a wasteway for purging the carrier. 
3.3.12.3 
The utility shall not locate manholes in the present or planned traveled way or 
shoulder areas, except: 
3.3.12.3.1 
in municipal streets, provided that manholes shall not be located at street 
intersections nor in the wheel paths of traffic lanes; and 
3.3.12.3.2 
where manholes are essential parts of existing lines. 
3.3.12.4 
The utility shall install shutoff valves on pressurized or hazardous materials 
pipelines at the following locations: 
3.3.12.4.1 
near the ends of highway structures to which such lines are attached, 
unless the pipeline is equipped with nearby shutoff valves or operates under 
effective control by automatic devices; and 
3.3.12.4.2 
near unusual hazards, such as unstable ground, structure footings, or 
locations subject to disturbance by construction and/or maintenance operations, 
unless the affected line segment can be isolated by other sectionalizing devices 
within a reasonable distance.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
42 
3.3.12.5 
The utility shall install permitted structural elements, such as manholes, vaults or 
anchor blocks, so that the high point of the element is at or below the grade of the 
traveled way or shoulder surface. Manhole covers located in the traveled way or shoulder 
shall be not less than one-quarter inch, or more than one-half inch, below the finished 
pavement grade. 
3.3.12.6 
Meters shall not be placed on SH ROW except within local jurisdiction where any 
local jurisdiction codes may require such use. 
3.4 
Construction Requirements 
3.4.1 
Access for Constructing or Servicing Utility Facilities 
3.4.1.1 The utility shall access the work site only at locations and by means acceptable to the 
Department. 
3.4.1.2 The utility shall not work at night or on Saturdays, Sundays, or holidays, except as 
approved by the Department. The Department may specify and/or restrict the utility’s 
access to construct or service utility facilities in accordance with each region’s lane 
closure policy, during peak traffic flow or due to adverse weather, insufficient visibility, or 
other conditions not conducive to safe and efficient traffic operations. 
3.4.1.3 To gain access to the SH ROW from abutting properties at other than established, 
approved locations, the utility must obtain and comply with the terms of an access permit 
issued pursuant to § 43-2-147, C.R.S. 
3.4.2 
Traffic Control and Work Zone Safety Requirements 
3.4.2.1 The utility shall develop and submit a TCP to the Department for any work that will affect 
traffic movement or safety. The utility shall implement the TCP and utilize traffic control 
devices to ensure the safe and expeditious movement of traffic around and through the 
work zone and the safety of the utility work force. 
3.4.2.2 The utility shall develop the TCP, and MHT in conformance with Department standards. 
The TCP shall include provisions for the passage of emergency vehicles through the 
work zone, and shall conform to all Federal, State and local agency rules and regulations. 
The TCP and MHT shall contain sufficient detail to demonstrate conformity with all 
applicable requirements. 
3.4.2.3 At CDOT’s direction, the utility shall have a TCS at the work site at all times in direct 
responsible charge of implementing the TCP. If the scope of the utility project 
necessitates a flagger, the utility shall have the appropriate number of certified flaggers at 
the work site in accordance with the TCP. 
3.4.2.4 The utility shall not start the permitted work before the Department accepts the TCP. 
3.4.2.5 The Department may review and order changes to the TCP and MHT during performance 
of the work, as required. 
3.4.2.6 The utility shall comply with the TCP at all times during performance of the work. 
3.4.2.7 The utility shall maintain the TCP at the work site at all times during performance of the 
work, and make available to the Department upon request.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
43 
3.4.2.8 The TCP shall ensure that closure of intersecting streets, road approaches and other 
access points is minimized. On heavily traveled highways, the Department shall not 
permit utility operations that interfere with traffic during periods of peak traffic flow. 
3.4.2.9 When utility operations coincide with highway construction or maintenance operations or 
other permitted activities, the utility shall develop and implement the TCP in cooperation 
and coordination with the highway agency and/or its contractors, and as otherwise 
directed by the Department in the permit. 
3.4.2.10 
All flaggers shall have a current CDOT flagger certification card, and shall be 
capable of effectively communicating with the traveling public and others at the work site. 
3.4.2.11 
All utility employees working within the SH ROW shall comply with any applicable 
OSHA regulations. 
3.4.2.12 
Personal protective equipment (e.g. head protection, footwear, high visibility 
apparel, safety glasses, hearing protection, respirators, gloves, etc.) shall be worn as 
appropriate for the work being performed, and as specified in all applicable Federal, State 
and local rules and regulations. 
3.4.3 
Utility Owner Notification 
3.4.3.1 The utility will comply with the applicable requirements of Article 1.5 of Title 9, C.R.S., 
including any requirement to participate in the State’s Notification Association pursuant to 
§ 9-1.5-105, C.R.S. All owners of underground utilities within the SH ROW must become 
members of the UNCC. 
3.4.3.2 Pursuant to § 9-1.5-103, C.R.S., and except as provided for emergency or other special 
circumstances in that statute, the permittee shall not make or begin excavation without 
first notifying the UNCC. The Department shall be notified of planned excavation as 
specified in the permit. If known by the utility permittee to exist, underground utility 
owners who have not yet become members of the UNCC shall be contacted directly. 
Notice of commencement, extent, and duration of the excavation work shall be given at 
least two business days prior thereto, not including the day of actual notice. 
3.4.4 
Pavement Cuts and Repairs 
3.4.4.1 The utility shall install buried facilities crossing the highway only by trenchless methods, 
except as provided by this Section. 
3.4.4.2 The utility may install buried facilities by open cut of the pavement structure only if it 
demonstrates to the Department that: trenchless methods are not feasible due to soil 
conditions, or space limitations or other considerations preclude trenchless construction, 
and/or removal and replacement of the pavement structure will be concurrent with or 
closely precede a project to construct or reconstruct the affected roadway.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
44 
3.4.4.3 When the Department permits pavement cuts, the utility shall comply with the following 
conditions: no more than half the width of the roadbed may be opened at any time, the 
utility must replace any removed pavement to a design equal to or greater than the 
surrounding, undisturbed pavement structure, and the utility must saw or wheel-cut to a 
neat line, or as otherwise specified in the permit, any pavement removed. On trenched 
installations, unless otherwise specified by the Department, the utility shall implement 
additional cutback of base and surfacing to a minimum of 2 feet beyond normal trench 
limits, replace excavated portions of the base and subgrade with flowable backfill, trim all 
overbreaks or incidental damage of existing pavement back to a neat line before 
patching, repair all surface gouges or other minor damage, and restore all pre-existing 
pavement markings in and adjacent to resurfaced areas. 
3.4.5 
Trenched Construction and Backfill 
3.4.5.1 The utility shall construct vertical-sided trenches, of uniform width, and no wider than the 
line diameter plus three feet, unless the utility demonstrates to the Department’s 
satisfaction that such construction is impracticable. 
3.4.5.2 Shoring or bulkheading shall conform with all applicable Federal, State and local 
jurisdiction construction and safety standards. 
3.4.5.3 The utility shall provide drainage from excavation areas. 
3.4.5.4 The utility shall not perform construction or compaction by means of jetting, puddling, or 
water flooding within SH ROW; however, a limited amount of puddling may be allowed up 
to the springline of the pipe when free-flowing granular backfill materials are used, when 
necessary to obtain proper compaction of pipeline bedding. 
3.4.5.5 Unless otherwise directed or approved by the Department, the utility shall replace 
excavated material with flowable backfill as specified by the Department within toes of 
slopes or place backfill in 6 inch layers, each consolidated by mechanical tamping and 
controlled addition of moisture to a density equal to or greater than that of the 
surrounding undisturbed soil outside toes of slopes. 
3.4.6 
Trenchless Installations 
3.4.6.1 Portal limits of trenchless crossings shall be established safely beyond the highway 
surface and clear zone, and in no case shall the lateral distance from the surfaced area 
of the highway to the boring or jacking pit be less than the vertical difference in elevation 
between such surface and the bottom of the pit. 
3.4.6.2 Shoring or bulkheading shall conform with applicable Federal, State and local jurisdiction 
construction and safety standards. 
3.4.6.3 The utility shall not use water jetting or tunneling, but water-assisted or wet boring may 
be permitted if determined by the Department to not result in excessive erosion or 
unacceptable moisture conditions in the roadway subgrade.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
45 
3.4.6.4 The boring hole shall be oversized to the minimum amount required to allow pull-through 
of the conduit being installed, based upon equipment and product manufacturer’s 
specifications. If the oversize excavation is not already filled by the drilling slurry after 
product pull through, the void shall be grouted to the satisfaction of the Department. 
Grout or other approved backfill material shall be used for pipe of 12 inches or more in 
diameter, and for overbreaks, unused holes or abandoned pipe. The composition of the 
grout shall be a cement mortar, a slurry of fine sand or fine granular materials, subject to 
Department approval. 
3.4.6.5 The utility shall follow any applicable manufacturer’s guidelines and industry standards 
for equipment set-up and operation. The utility shall assess soil conditions to determine 
the most appropriate installation technique. Underground borepaths or tunnels shall be 
tracked and recorded by the utility. Failed bores shall be appropriately abandoned by the 
utility. 
3.4.6.6 Drilling fluids shall be prepared and used according to fluid and drilling equipment 
manufacturer guidelines. The utility shall use fluid containment pits at both bore entry and 
exit points, and shall use appropriate operational controls in order to avoid heaving or 
loss of drilling fluids from the bore. 
3.4.6.6.1 
Antifreeze additives shall be non-toxic and biodegradable products. 
3.4.6.6.2 
Depending upon chemical composition or the specific method of 
disposal, improperly disposed drilling fluids may be classified as solid wastes or 
unauthorized discharges per Section 3.1.7, and in general, shall be pumped or 
vacuumed from the construction area, removed from the SH ROW and disposed 
of at permitted facilities that specifically accept such wastes. 
3.4.6.6.3 
Disposal of drilling fluids into storm drains, storm sewers, roadside 
ditches or any other type of man-made or natural waterway is expressly 
prohibited. 
3.4.6.6.4 
Small quantities of drilling fluid solids (less than 1 cubic yard of solids) 
may be left on-site after either being separated from fluids or after infiltration of 
the water, provided: 
3.4.6.6.4.1 
the drilling fluid consists of only water and bentonite clay; or 
3.4.6.6.4.2 
if required for proper drilling properties, small quantities of 
polymer additives that are approved for use in drinking water well drilling; 
and 
3.4.6.6.4.3 
the solids are fully contained in a pit, and are not likely to pose a 
nuisance to future work in the area; and 
3.4.6.6.4.4 
the solids covered and the area restored as required by permit 
requirements. 
3.4.7 
Utility Installations Near Drainage Ways and Watercourses 
3.4.7.1 The utility shall not install any facility along or across the ROW of an irrigation ditch or 
canal company without first obtaining the written approval of such company.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
46 
3.4.7.2 The utility shall install facilities that cross a stream or other drainage only at a point 
beneath the bed of that watercourse and only at a depth that adequately allows for scour 
or ditch maintenance requirements. The utility shall also take the added measures to 
protect such lines that the Department deems necessary in areas subject to erosion or 
other disturbance. 
3.4.7.3 In establishing the depth of cover below an unpaved channel, the Department will 
consider potential scour, ditch maintenance operations and/or future needs to increase 
the channel capacity. The utility line shall be installed a minimum of three feet below the 
lowest expected level of scour or degradation. 
3.4.7.4 Utility construction operations within or near live streams, ditches, wetlands or other 
bodies of water shall include adequate provision to protect or maintain surface and/or 
ground water quality, and may require appropriate clearances as described in Section 
3.1.7. 
3.4.7.5 The utility shall not install utility lines within culverts where the primary purpose of that 
culvert is to carry drainage. For culverts or culvert-like structures where the primary 
purpose of the culvert is something other than drainage, such as providing passage for 
stock, wildlife, pedestrians or vehicles, utility installations shall be addressed through 
Section 3.3.10. 
3.4.7.6 In order to avoid any interference with the operations or maintenance of either utility lines 
or of drainage structures, the utility shall not install utility lines inside any such drainage 
structure or inside the trench that surrounds any drainage structure, and shall maintain a 
horizontal and vertical clearance from any such drainage structure or surrounding trench 
if further directed to do so by the Department in the utility permit. 
3.4.8 
Protection, Construction and Restoration of Highway Property 
3.4.8.1 The utility shall avoid disturbing or damaging all highway property, and shall be 
responsible for the prompt reconstruction, alteration, repair or maintenance of highway 
property, to repair any damage caused by the utility work, and to restore the SH ROW to 
pre-existing or better conditions as may be specified in the permit. 
3.4.8.2 Cleated or tracked equipment shall not work on or move over paved surfaces without 
mats or pads on tracks. 
3.4.8.3 The utility shall not spray, cut or trim trees, or other landscaping elements, or remove any 
landscaping material, unless such work is specifically described in the permit application 
and approved in the permit. 
3.4.8.4 The utility shall employ erosion and sediment control measures, to protect storm water 
quality, in conformance with current Federal, State and local jurisdiction codes and 
Department standards. At a minimum, the utility shall employ the following measures, as 
applicable: 
3.4.8.4.1 
minimize the length of open trench; and 
3.4.8.4.2 
minimize the area of disturbance to ground cover and vegetation; and 
3.4.8.4.3 
manage necessary stockpiles in accordance with the permit 
requirements and appropriate CDOT Specification; and 
3.4.8.4.4 
protect all inlets accepting flow from the impacted area; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
47 
3.4.8.4.5 
seed and permanently stabilize the disturbed area to prevent erosion. 
3.4.8.5 The utility may be required to obtain a storm water permit from the CDPHE per Section 
3.1.7.13 and 3.1.7.20. 
3.4.8.6 The utility shall perform any required construction or restoration of highway property in 
conformance with the Code, permit requirements, and with Department standard 
specifications and standard plans adopted by the Commission pursuant to § 43-2-107(1), 
C.R.S., as directed and provided to the utility by the Department. Material removed from 
any portion of the roadway template must be replaced in like kind with better or equal 
compaction. Segregation of material is not permitted. 
3.4.8.7 All utility construction or restoration work shall be subject to Department approval, and 
the utility shall promptly replace all unsatisfactory work as determined by the Department. 
3.4.8.8 The utility shall maintain any such finished work for a period of twenty-four (24) months 
following completion and acceptance, and must post a bond to assure the adequacy of 
construction or maintenance. 
3.4.8.9 The utility shall remove all debris, refuse, waste, salvage, and surplus materials resulting 
from utility accommodation work from SH ROW in a safe and expedient manner, daily 
during installation and upon completion of such work. 
3.4.8.10 
The utility shall restore ditch flow lines and shall reseed or re-sod, as conditions 
dictate, all areas which are denuded of vegetation during utility operations. The seed 
species, origin and application rates required for each location shall be as approved by 
the Department. Seed mixtures and mulch must be certified free of noxious weed seeds. 
The utility shall clean equipment before transporting it into or out of the State in order to 
prevent the migration of noxious weeds. 
3.4.9 
Markers, Location Aids and Location Assistance 
3.4.9.1 All new underground facilities must be electronically locatable when installed, including 
laterals up to the structure or the building being served. 
3.4.9.2 All plowed or trenched installations must include appropriate color-coded warning tape 
placed not less than 12 inches vertically above the top of the line. The warning tape shall 
be surface-detectable if needed to facilitate detection of the line. 
3.4.9.3 The utility shall place readily identifiable markers at the ROW line where it is crossed by 
pipelines carrying transmittants which are flammable, corrosive, expansive, energized, or 
unstable, except where a vent will serve as a marker. 
3.4.9.4 The utility shall place markers for longitudinal underground facilities vertically above the 
facilities or at a known horizontal offset, unless otherwise approved in writing by the 
Department. Each marker shall provide a foresight and backsight to succeeding and 
preceding markers. Markers shall be installed at suitable intervals along tangent sections, 
at angle points or points of curvature, and at reasonable intervals along curves. 
3.4.9.5 The utility shall maintain any markers required by the Code for the life of the installation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
2 CCR 601-18 
Transportation Commission 
 
48 
3.4.9.6 In addition to complying with Section 3.4.3 of the Code and the provisions of Article 1.5 of 
Title 9 C.R.S. in response to the Department’s notification of planned excavations, utility 
owners shall surface-mark their buried utility facilities that are located within the SH ROW 
in order to facilitate Department engineering and design activities, upon reasonable 
request from the Department, and at no cost to the Department. The permittee shall 
respond to such request within a reasonable timeframe acceptable to the Department, 
but no longer than 14 days from the date of request, and the accuracy of the surface 
marking shall be within 18 inch of either side of the actual location of the buried facility. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 10/30/2009. 
Entire rule eff. 01/14/2021.
