---
id: "3_CCR_702-4"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "3 CCR 702-4"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=11434&fileName=3%20CCR%20702-4%20Series%204-10&type=pdf"
---

#### 3_CCR_702-4. 3 CCR 702-4

1 
DEPARTMENT OF REGULATORY AGENCIES 
Division of Insurance 
LIFE, ACCIDENT AND HEALTH, Series 4-10 
3 CCR 702-4 Series 4-10 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Regulation 4-10-01 
HEALTH CARE SHARING PLAN OR ARRANGEMENT REPORTING 
REQUIREMENTS 
Section 1 
Authority 
Section 2 
Scope and Purpose 
Section 3 
Applicability 
Section 4 
Definitions 
Section 5 
Rules 
Section 6 
Severability 
Section 7 
Enforcement 
Section 8 
Effective Date 
Section 9 
History 
Appendix A 
Health Care Sharing Plan or Arrangement Reporting Attestation 
Section 1 
Authority 
This regulation is being promulgated and adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance under the authority 
of §§ 10-1-108(7) 10-1-109, 10-16-109, and 10-16-107.4(4), C.R.S. 
Section 2 
Scope and Purpose 
The purpose of this regulation is to establish the data reporting requirements applicable to all health care 
sharing plans or arrangements (HCSPAs) offering or that intend to offer products to facilitate payment or 
reimbursement of health-care costs or services for residents of this state. 
Section 3 
Applicability 
This regulation shall apply to all HCSPAs offering or marketing products to facilitate payment or 
reimbursement of health-care costs or services for residents of this state. 
Section 4 
Definitions 
A. 
“Administrative expenses” shall mean costs incurred to operate and support the functioning of the 
health care sharing plan or arrangement. This includes but is not limited to bank fees, staff 
salaries, data processing, sales, management of health care expense submissions, marketing, 
outreach, and enrollment efforts. This includes fees, commissions, and remuneration paid to 
contractors or third parties that acted on behalf of the HCSPA to facilitate administrative 
operations. 
B. 
“CORA” shall mean the Colorado Open Records Act (§ 24-72-201, et seq, C.R.S.). 
C. 
“Filing date” shall mean, for the purposes of this regulation, the day after the Health Care Sharing 
Report “HCSR” is received at the Division of Insurance (Division). 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-4 Series 4-10 
Division of Insurance 
 
2 
D. 
“Health care costs” or “health care expenses” shall mean any amount billed by a health care 
provider for health care services or related products or any amount billed by a pharmacy. 
E. 
“Health care provider” shall have the same meaning as found at § 10-16-102(56), C.R.S. “Health 
care provider” includes telehealth and direct primary care providers for the purposes of this 
regulation. 
F. 
“Health care services” means any services included in or incidental to the furnishing of medical, 
behavioral, mental health, or substance use disorder care; dental care; optometric care; 
hospitalization; or nursing home care to an individual, as well as the furnishing to any person of 
any other services for the purpose of preventing, alleviating, curing, or healing human physical 
illness or injury, or behavioral, mental health, or substance use disorders. “Health-care services” 
includes the rendering of the services through the use of telehealth, as defined in § 10-16-123 
(4)(e), C.R.S. 
G. 
“Health care sharing plan” or “health care sharing arrangement” or “plan” or “arrangement” or 
“HCSPA” shall mean any organization that offers or markets products to facilitate payment or 
reimbursement of health-care costs or services for one (1) or more residents of Colorado. This 
does not include direct primary care agreements as defined in § 6-23-101, C.R.S.; consumer 
payment plans offered directly between a provider and patient (or patient’s responsible party); 
businesses used to facilitate the plan’s operations such as reimbursement handling, cost 
containment vendors, data processing; and crowdfunded sources that do not require ongoing 
membership fees, share requirements, or dues for the purposes of payment for and/or 
reimbursement of health care services. 
H. 
“Health Care Sharing Report” or “HCSR” shall mean the report required to be filed with the 
Commissioner pursuant to § 10-16-107.4(1), C.R.S. 
I. 
“Health Care Sharing Plan or Arrangement Reporting template” or “template” shall mean the data 
reporting template created and distributed by the Division for the purposes of collecting data per § 
10-16-107.4, C.R.S. 
J. 
“Insurance producer” or “producer” shall have the same meaning as found at § 10-2-103(6), 
C.R.S., with the exception that for the purposes of this regulation it does not include § 10-2-
103(6)(b), C.R.S. 
K. 
 “Product(s)” shall mean, for the purposes of this regulation, the services covered as a package 
under a membership plan, tier, or level. 
L. 
“Program expenses” shall mean any service by the HCSPA or its contractors that, while not direct 
medical care, contributes to the care and overall experiences of HCSPA’s participants. This 
includes but is not limited to coaching and wellness programs, care navigation, care coordination, 
medical review, quality improvement efforts, cost containment, reimbursement handling, and bill 
negotiations. This includes fees, commissions, and remuneration paid to contractors that acted 
on behalf of the HCSPA to facilitate program expenses. 
M. 
“Third party” shall mean contractors that are associated with or assist the plan or arrangement in 
offering or enrolling Colorado residents as participants in the plan or arrangement. 
Section 5 
Rules 
A. 
All health care sharing plans or arrangements shall: 
1. 
Complete the required HCSR by emailing the Division:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-4 Series 4-10 
Division of Insurance 
 
3 
a. 
A completed copy of the Health Care Sharing Plan or Arrangement Reporting 
template, which is provided on the Division’s website and contains the data 
reporting required by § 10-16-107.4(1)(a), C.R.S., including program expenses; 
b. 
The Health Care Sharing Plan or Arrangement Reporting Attestation in Appendix 
A; 
c. 
Copies of consumer facing and marketing materials used in Colorado to promote 
the plan or arrangement associated with the calendar year the plan or 
arrangement is reporting on. This includes but is not limited to a link to the 
HCSPA’s website(s) used for marketing, plan or arrangement benefit or product 
descriptions, plan or arrangement member guidelines, application form, and 
other materials that explain the plan or arrangement; 
d. 
An organizational chart of the HCSPA with a list of officers, directors, and their 
roles; 
e. 
Copies of all training materials provided to a producer; and 
f. 
Copies of all training materials provided to a third party. 
2. 
Complete the required HCSR by March 1 of each year with data for the prior calendar 
year. 
3. 
Provide accurate contact information for the individual responsible for completing the 
data reporting form. 
B. 
Confidentiality 
1. 
All data filings submitted shall be considered public and shall be open to public 
inspection, unless the information may be considered confidential pursuant to § 24-72-
204, C.R.S. 
2. 
The entire filing cannot be held as confidential. 
3. 
A “Confidentiality Index” shall be completed if the health care sharing plan or 
arrangement desires confidential treatment of any information submitted. Information 
identified as confidential shall be marked as such and shall be submitted separately from 
non-confidential material. If a CORA request is received requesting the information 
identified as confidential, the Division will notify the health care sharing plan or 
arrangement prior to sharing any information that the plan or arrangement may have 
identified as confidential in the confidentiality index. 
C. 
Where the Division finds the health care sharing plan or arrangement's HCSR to be deficient or 
incomplete, the Division shall notify the contact person identified in § 10-16-107.4(1)(a)(XVIII), 
C.R.S. The Division shall allow the HCSPA thirty (30) days from the date of notice to remedy the 
deficiency. Failure to remedy the deficiency may result in the levy of a fine not to exceed $5,000 
per day. If the HCSPA does not remedy the deficiency or deficiencies within thirty days after the 
initial fine is levied, the commissioner may issue a cease-and-desist order in accordance with 
section § 10-3-904.5 C.R.S. 
Section 6 
Severability 
If any provision of this regulation or the application of it to any person or circumstance is for any reason 
held to be invalid, the remainder of this regulation shall not be affected.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-4 Series 4-10 
Division of Insurance 
 
4 
Section 7 
Enforcement 
Noncompliance with this regulation may result in the imposition of any of the sanctions made available in 
the Colorado statutes pertaining to the business of insurance, or other laws, which include the imposition 
of civil penalties, issuance of cease-and-desist orders, subject to the requirements of due process. 
Section 8 
Effective Date 
This regulation shall become effective on April 30, 2024. 
Section 9 
History 
New regulation effective April 30, 2024.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-4 Series 4-10 
Division of Insurance 
 
5 
Appendix A 
Health Care Sharing Plan or Arrangement Reporting Attestation 
 
Health Care Sharing Plan or Arrangement Reporting Attestation 
____________________________________________________________________________________ 
__________________________________________________________________________________ 
Timeline to respond to incomplete submissions 
If the Organization subject to the requirements of § 10-16-107.4, C.R.S fails to submit the information or 
certification required by § 10-16-107.4, C.R.S, the submission is incomplete. The Commissioner of 
Insurance shall make a determination of completeness no later than forty-five (45) days after the filing 
date of the submission. If the commissioner has not informed the Organization of any deficiencies in the 
submission within forty-five (45) days after receiving the submission, the submission is considered 
complete. 
If the Commissioner determines that a person fails to comply with the requirements of § 10-16-107.4, 
C.R.S, the Commissioner shall: (a) notify the Organization that the submission is incomplete and 
enumerate in the notification each deficiency found in the person's submission; and (b) allow the 
Organization thirty (30) days after notice of the incomplete submission to remedy the deficiency found in 
the submission. If the Organization does not remedy the deficiency within the thirty-day period, the 
Commissioner may levy a fine not to exceed five thousand dollars ($5,000) per day. If the Organization 
does not remedy the deficiency or deficiencies within thirty (30) days after the initial fine is levied, the 
Commissioner may issue a cease-and-desist order in accordance with section § 10-3-904.5, C.R.S. 
__________________________________________________________________________________ 
☐ 
By clicking here, you attest that you read the above statement and are aware of the timeline to 
respond to the Commissioner and the Division if this submission is deemed incomplete. 
☐ 
By clicking here, you attest that all data required to be submitted, per § 10-16-107.4, C.R.S, have 
been submitted to the Division. Including submitting of: (1) supplemental, training, and marketing 
materials; (2) organizational chart of the HCSA with a list of officers, directors, and their roles; (3) copies 
of any training materials provided to a producer; (4) training materials provided to a third party; and (5) the 
Reporting Template. 
☐ 
By clicking here, you, an officer of the Organization, attest that the information provided in this 
reporting template, to the best of your good-faith knowledge and belief, is accurate and satisfies the 
requirements of § 10-16-107.4, C.R.S. 
__________________________________ 
 
_______________________________ 
Digital Signature 
 
 
 
 
Date 
 
__________________________________ 
 
_______________________________ 
Print name and role within organization  
 
Email address

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-4 Series 4-10 
Division of Insurance 
 
6 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
3 CCR 702-4 has been divided into smaller sections for ease of use. Versions prior to 09/01/2011 and 
rule history are located in the first section, 3 CCR 702-4. Prior versions can be accessed from the All 
Versions list on the rule’s current version page. To view versions effective after 09/01/2011, select the 
desired part of the rule, for example 3 CCR 702-4 Series 4-1, or 3 CCR 702-4 Series 4-6. 
History 
[For history of this section, see Editor’s Notes in the first section, 3 CCR 702-4]
