---
id: "3_CCR_710-1"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "3 CCR 710-1"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12467&fileName=3%20CCR%20710-1&type=pdf"
---

#### 3_CCR_710-1. 3 CCR 710-1

1 
DEPARTMENT OF REGULATORY AGENCIES 
State Electrical Board 
STATE ELECTRICAL BOARD RULES AND REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
1.1 
AUTHORITY 
These regulations are adopted pursuant to the authority in sections 12-20-204 and 12-
115-107(2)(a), C.R.S., and intended to be consistent with the requirements of the State 
Administrative Procedures Act, section 24-4-101, et seq. (the “APA”), C.R.S., and the 
Electricians Practice Act, sections 12-115-101, et seq. (the “Practice Act”), C.R.S. 
1.2 
SCOPE AND PURPOSE 
These regulations shall govern and are binding on every person and legal entity 
authorized to practice, offer to practice, or perform electrical or electrical contracting in 
Colorado. All licensees and registrants under Title 12, Article 115 of the Colorado 
Revised Statutes are charged with having knowledge of the existence of these Rules 
and shall be deemed to be familiar with their provisions and to understand the rules. 
1.3 
APPLICABILITY 
The provisions of this section shall apply to electrical practice, performance of electrical 
services, and electrical contracting in Colorado. These Rules are severable. If one rule 
or portion of a rule is found to be invalid, all other rules or portions of rules that can be 
enforced without the invalid rules shall be enforced and shall remain valid. 
1.4 
DEFINITIONS 
This Rule is promulgated pursuant to sections 12-20-204 and 12-115-107(2)(a), C.R.S. 
A. 
“Licensee” means any person holding a master electrician license, journeyman 
electrician license, or residential wireman license and as defined by section 12-
20-102(10), C.R.S. 
B. 
“Registrant” means any person registered as an electrical apprentice and any 
person or legal entity registered with the Board as an electrical contractor or 
photovoltaic installer and as defined by section 12-20-102(12), C.R.S. 
C. 
“Agent” means any person authorized to act on behalf of a photovoltaic installer. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
2 
1. 
Is a full-time employee, owner, or principal of the photovoltaic installer; 
and, 
2. 
Is authorized to act on the behalf of the photovoltaic installer for all matters 
related to the registration with the Board. 
1.5 
INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE 
This Rule is promulgated pursuant to sections 12-20-204, 12-115-107(2)(a), and 24-4-
103(12.5), C.R.S. 
A. 
The Board hereby incorporates by reference the National Fire Protection 
Association standard number 70, hereafter known as the National Electrical 
Code, 2023 Edition. These standards are incorporated by reference as the 
minimum standards governing the planning, laying out, and installing or the 
making of additions, alterations, and repairs in the installation of wiring apparatus 
and equipment for electric light, heat, and power in this state. This Rule does not 
include later amendments to or editions of the National Electrical Code, 2023 
Edition. The effective date shall be August 1, 2023. 
B. 
A copy of the provisions of the National Electrical Code, 2023 Edition is available 
for public inspection during regular business hours at the Board office at the 
Division of Professions and Occupations, Department of Regulatory Agencies, 
1560 Broadway, Suite 110, Denver, Colorado, 80202, and at any state 
publications depository library. For further information regarding how this material 
can be obtained or examined, contact the Program Director for the Board 
(“Program Director”) at 1560 Broadway, Suite 110, Denver, Colorado, 80202, 
(303) 894-2300. The National Electric Code, 2023 Edition, is available directly 
from the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), 1 Batterymarch Park, 
Quincy MA 02169-7471, phone 1-800-344-3555. Copies are also available from 
the NFPA website at NFPA.org, as well as most online and retail book vendors. 
C. 
Pursuant to section 12-115-107(3), C.R.S., a permit applicant for electric vehicle 
(EV) power transfer infrastructure must comply with the requirements of section 
12-115-107(3), C.R.S., and the Colorado Energy Office’s EV power transfer 
infrastructure requirements for multifamily buildings found in the Model Electric 
Ready and Solar Ready Code. This Rule incorporates these Code requirements 
as they existed on June 1, 2023 and does not incorporate any later amendments 
or editions of these Code requirements

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
3 
The Model Electric Ready and Solar Ready Code can be accessed through the 
Colorado Energy Office within the Energy Policy sections at 
https://energyoffice.colorado.gov/. For further information regarding how this 
material can be obtained or examined, contact the Program Director for the 
Board (“Program Director”) at 1560 Broadway, Suite 110, Denver, Colorado, 
80202, (303) 894-2300. A copy of Model Electric Ready and Solar Ready Code 
is available for public inspection during regular business hours at the Board office 
at the Division of Professions and Occupations, Department of Regulatory 
Agencies, 1560 Broadway, Suite 110, Denver, Colorado, 80202, at the Colorado 
Energy Office, 1600 Broadway, Suite 1960, Denver, CO 80202 and at any state 
publications depository library. 
1.6 
REGISTRATION AND RECORDKEEPING 
This Rule is promulgated pursuant to sections 12-20-204, 12-115-107(2)(a), and 12-
115-115, C.R.S. 
A. 
Apprentice Registration 
1. 
The Board may require the employer of an electrical apprentice to provide 
information verifying the apprentice’s record of employment and practical 
experience, including but not limited to a written attestation from the 
responsible master electrician verifying that the apprentice has been 
performing electrical work during any period the apprentice was not 
registered. Employers of apprentices shall cooperate with any request 
from the Board pursuant to this Rule and furnish such information or 
assistance as the Board may request. 
2. 
An individual that holds an active residential electrician’s license and is 
working on a commercial job site must be registered as an apprentice. 
3. 
An employer who fails to timely register an apprentice within 30 days or 
less of employment as required by section 12-115-115(3)(a), C.R.S., and 
this Rule shall be subject to disciplinary action pursuant to section 12-115-
122, C.R.S. 
4. 
An employer who fails to remove an apprentice from their company’s 
registration within 30 days of termination of employment shall be subject 
to the same disciplinary action as Board Rule 1.6(A)(3) above. 
B. 
Apprentice Recordkeeping. Electrical Contractors shall maintain employment 
records or work reports for apprentices under their supervision in order to provide 
experience verification. Such records or reports should accurately document the 
type of work by the number of hours and months the apprentice performed 
electrical work as defined by section 12-115-103, C.R.S., and should specifically 
reflect:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
4 
1. 
Exact dates of employment; 
2. 
Number of hours and months of residential electrical experience; and, 
3. 
Number of hours and months of commercial, industrial, or substantially 
similar electrical experience. 
C. 
Electrical Contractors shall provide employees with an experience verification 
form, as prepared and furnished by the Board, and which is based on the records 
indicated in Board Rule 1.6(B), within 30 days of their termination or resignation, 
and upon request. 
D. 
Exemption for Apprentice Required to Exam. Apprentices seeking exemption to 
the requirements of section 12-115-115(4), C.R.S., must meet the following 
criteria established in accordance with section 12-115-115(4)(a)(II), C.R.S., 
which requires circumstances that justify the exemption. 
1. 
An apprentice deployed to serve in the United States Military in 
accordance with military orders may be granted exemption to the 
examination requirements of section 12-115-115(4), C.R.S. 
a. 
Apprentice must meet the examination attempt requirements within 
the statute. 
b. 
A request, including supporting evidence and documentation for 
Board consideration, must be submitted at least 15 days prior to 
deployment. 
(1) 
Acceptable evidence of deployment include but may not be 
limited to the following documentation that must clearly state 
the date and length of deployment, and be issued by the 
United States Military. 
(a) 
Copy of Deployment Orders; 
(b) 
Report or letter from a senior officer; and/or 
(c) 
Other military evidence of deployment. 
(2) 
Special consideration of timely submission may be given 
with evidence of short notice deployment. 
2. 
Exemption will be applied: 
a. 
When calculating the years of apprentice registration that requires 
an examination per the statute;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
5 
b. 
For the actual time the apprentice is deployed and actively 
registered as an apprentice with the Board; and 
c. 
So that times of deployment that may disadvantage the apprentice 
may not be counted. 
E. 
Photovoltaic Recordkeeping. Photovoltaic Installers shall maintain employment 
records or work reports for employees under their supervision in order to provide 
experience verification. Such records or reports should accurately document the 
type of work by the number of hours and months the employee performed 
photovoltaic electrical work as defined by section 12-115-103, C.R.S., and should 
specifically reflect: 
1. 
Exact dates of employment; 
2. 
Total number of hours and months of photovoltaic electrical experience. 
F. 
Photovoltaic Installers shall provide employees with an experience verification 
form, as prepared and furnished by the Board, and which is based on the records 
indicated in Board Rule 1.6(B), within 30 days of their termination or resignation 
and upon request. 
1.7 
APPLICATION FOR LICENSURE 
This Rule is promulgated pursuant to sections 12-20-204, 12-115-107(2)(a), 12-115-
110, and 12-115-114, C.R.S. 
A. 
All applications shall be submitted to the Division of Professions and Occupations 
in a form and manner approved by the Board. 
B. 
Experience. 
1. 
Applicants cannot verify their own experience. 
2. 
General Documentation Requirements. Applicants shall provide 
documented written evidence of all in state and out of state experience on 
experience verification forms prepared and furnished by the Board which 
shall include all of the following: 
a. 
Exact dates of employment. 
b. 
Breakdown of electrical work performed in: 
(1) 
Commercial, residential, industrial and/or 
maintenance/service; and, 
(2) 
Increments of hours and months.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
6 
c. 
Signature of the master electrician for, or a signatory authority of, 
the electrical contractor or employer. 
d. 
“Supervising” as used in section 12-115-110(1)(a)(III), C.R.S., 
means the supervision of registered apprentices by a licensed 
journeyman. 
3. 
Maintenance Experience. Maintenance experience shall be submitted for 
evaluation on experience verification forms prepared and furnished by the 
Board. 
a. 
A maximum of two years of experience credit may be granted for 
work performed under the supervision, and verified by, a Colorado 
(or equivalent) licensed electrician. 
b. 
A maximum of one year of experience credit may be granted for 
work not required to be performed under the supervision of a 
licensed electrician, and verified by the employer. 
4. 
Foreign Experience 
a. 
Applicants shall have one year of in-country electrical construction 
experience and familiarity with the National Electrical Code. 
b. 
A maximum of three years of out-of-country experience may be 
applied towards credit for a journeyman license. 
c. 
A maximum of four years out-of-country experience may be applied 
towards credit for a master license. 
d. 
Applicants who have electrical experience from a foreign country 
for which they wish to receive experience credit are required to 
submit the documentation accompanied by an English language 
translation and a certification signed by the translator that must be 
printed legibly or typed. Such certification must include a statement 
that the translator is competent to translate the document, and that 
the translation is true and accurate to the best of the translator's 
abilities. 
(1) 
This evaluation will be performed at the applicant's expense 
and the applicant will be responsible for submitting all the 
necessary information to the evaluating institution. 
5. 
Calculating Years of Experience. This Rule is intended to clarify the term 
“years” of experience earned as referenced in the statutes and does not 
negate any other requirement set forth in the Board’s Rules or statutes for 
requirements for licensure.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
7 
a. 
When evaluating experience earned by an applicant pursuant to 
section 12-115-110, C.R.S., the minimum practice experience 
required for examination is calculated in “years” as follows: 
(1) 
Residential Wireman – 4,000 hours earned in no less than 
two years. 
(2) 
Journeyman Electrician – 8,000 hours earned in no less than 
four years. 
(3) 
Master Electrician – 10,000 hours earned in no less than five 
years. 
6. 
Photovoltaic Experience. Photovoltaic experience shall be submitted for 
evaluation on experience verification forms prepared and furnished by the 
Board. 
a. 
Photovoltaic electrical experience includes electrical design and 
electrical work for installations less than 300 kw to include: 
(1) 
Interconnection of the modules and ground and bonding of 
the modules. 
(2) 
Balance of D/C system wiring, wiring PV modules, wiring 
methods and materials. 
(3) 
Connecting to the inverter. 
(4) 
Installation of disconnects, installation of DC PV system 
conductors, installation of all conduit and raceways on D/C 
side of system, installation of all PV source circuit 
conductors, the installation of inverters, optimizers, charge 
controllers, batteries or any required electrical equipment on 
the D/C or PV side of the system. 
(5) 
System monitoring and control. 
(6) 
Battery conductors with grounding/bonding of the same. 
(7) 
Engineering and commissioning of PV systems. 
b. 
Photovoltaic electrical experience does not include electrical work 
that must be performed with a registered electrical contractor, 
including: 
(1) 
Connecting to the electrical panel. 
(2) 
All A/C work to include:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
8 
(a) 
Conductors. 
(b) 
Conduits. 
(c) 
Raceways. 
(d) 
Junction boxes. 
(e) 
Terminations. 
(f) 
Bonding and grounding. 
c. 
For every two hours of photovoltaic electrical work the applicant 
earns one hour towards their electrical experience hours up to two 
thousand hours. 
d. 
General Documentation Requirements: Pursuant to 12-115-
110(6)(a)(III) Applicants shall provide documented written evidence 
of all in state and out-of-state experience on photovoltaic 
experience verification forms prepared and furnished by the Board 
which shall include all of the following: 
(1) 
Exact dates of work. 
(2) 
Breakdown of photovoltaic electrical work performed in: 
(a) 
Commercial, residential, industrial, and/or 
maintenance/service. 
(b) 
Increments in total hours, qualifying hours and 
months. 
(3) 
Photovoltaic installer. Signature of the agent for, or a 
signatory authority of, the photovoltaic installer or employer. 
C. 
Education 
1. 
Community College Degree. Applicants that are graduates from an 
accredited community college shall hold a degree in the electrical field to 
receive credit pursuant to section 12-115-110, C.R.S. 
2. 
Trade School 
a. 
Apprenticeship training programs are not equivalent to trade 
schools. 
b. 
A trade school shall meet the following criteria:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
9 
(1) 
Provide training in the following areas as it relates to the 
electrical trade: 
(a) 
Maintenance and new construction wiring in 
residential and commercial buildings; 
(b) 
Basic math related to the electrical industry; 
(c) 
Basic use of hand tools and materials; 
(d) 
Basic electrical resistive theory, wire sizing, circuit 
construction, and troubleshooting; 
(e) 
Basic to advanced study in motor control, motor 
theory and maintenance, installation and maintenance 
of equipment, designing electrical systems, blueprint 
reading, estimating, and electrical codes; 
(f) 
Electrical theory and practical application; and, 
(g) 
OSHA curriculum based safety training. 
(2) 
Provide official transcripts noting credit hours. 
(a) 
Graduate must obtain no less than 165 credit hours. 
(b) 
Each credit hour shall represent no less than nineteen 
classroom hours. 
3. 
Transcripts. Applicants providing documentation of education must submit 
an official transcript from the school with the application. The transcript 
must be provided with the application in an official envelope sealed by the 
granting institution. 
4. 
Foreign Education 
a. 
Applicants who have an electrical engineering degree or electrical 
engineering courses from foreign colleges, universities, or their 
equivalents for which they wish to receive educational credit are 
required to have the transcripts evaluated by an electrical 
engineering department in an accredited university to determine if 
the curriculum is substantially equivalent. 
b. 
This evaluation will be performed at the applicant's expense and 
the applicant will be responsible for submitting all the necessary 
information to the evaluating institution.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
10 
c. 
Applicants providing documentation of education must submit the 
evaluation from the evaluating institution with the application. 
5. 
Other Education Credit. Applicants for licensure with electrical 
apprenticeship training, other electrical training, non-accredited electrical 
education, or other electrical education not addressed in statute or Board 
Rules may be granted a maximum of one year of experience credit 
provided the applicant meets and provides the following documentation: 
a. 
Course curriculum with the number of classroom hours completed; 
and, 
b. 
Certification of completed hours. 
c. 
Credit may be awarded as follows: 
(1) 
Credit for the successful completion of non-accredited 
electrical courses or program shall be credited one month of 
experience for two months of schooling up to a maximum of 
one year. 
(2) 
Education without a certificate of completion may replace 
actual field experience under a licensed master at the rate of 
one month credit for every six months training or experience 
up to maximum of one year. 
6. 
Accredited Training. Applicants that are graduates from an accredited 
training program shall hold a degree or certificate in the electrical field to 
receive credit pursuant to section 12-115-110 (3), C.R.S. 
D. 
Training 
1. 
Apprenticeship Training Requirements. Pursuant to section 12-115-
110(2)(a)(III), C.R.S., .an applicant for a journeyman electrician’s license 
shall provide documented written evidence of at least 288 hours of 
electrical training completed during the last eight years of apprenticeship 
and conducted in compliance with rules adopted by the Board. 
a. 
One hour of approved training shall consist of not less than fifty 
minutes of instruction, presentation, or activity spent in structured 
education. 
b. 
The 288 hours of approved training is in addition to any stipulated 
on-the-job training requirement and shall include technical and 
professional subjects related to the practice of electrical work which 
the Board deems necessary to safeguard the public. Such subjects 
include:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
11 
(1) 
Grounding/bonding; 
(2) 
National Electrical Code changes; 
(3) 
Wiring methods; 
(4) 
Theory/calculations; and, 
(5) 
A minimum of ten and a maximum of forty hours of OSHA 
curriculum based safety training. 
c. 
288 Hours Training Criteria. To qualify for credit, training activities 
must be structured educational efforts meeting all of the following 
criteria: 
(1) 
Include technical and practical applications which impact 
criteria listed in Board Rule 1.7(D)(1)(b); 
(2) 
Be current and presented by qualified and technically 
competent instructors; and, 
(3) 
Provide certificates of completion or other documentation for 
the apprentice electrician and maintain records of 
attendance. 
d. 
No Pre-Approval of 288 Hours Training Activities. The Board will 
not pre-approve courses or programs. It is within the discretion of 
the Board to deny credit for any activity that does not meet the 
training criteria in Board Rule 1.7(D)(1)(c). 
e. 
Acceptable 288 Hours Training Activities. The Board deems the 
following types of activities to be acceptable. On-line delivery and 
participation in Board Rule 1.7(D)(1) may be acceptable if in 
compliance with these Rules, including but not limited to Board 
Rule 1.6(D)(8). 
(1) 
Not-for-credit academic course; 
(2) 
For-credit academic course; and, 
(3) 
Industry training programs. 
f. 
Non-Acceptable 288 Hours Training Activities. The Board deems 
the following types of activities not acceptable training for this 
requirement: 
(1) 
Serving on federal, state, or municipal boards or 
commissions;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
12 
(2) 
Rendering pro bono services; 
(3) 
Faculty at college, university, or other educational institution 
shall not receive credit for teaching their regularly-assigned 
courses beyond the initial class; 
(4) 
Participation on a public, professional, or technical society 
board; 
(5) 
Attendance at licensing or registration board meetings or any 
other professionally relevant board or committee meeting; 
and, 
(6) 
Participating in or attending exhibit poster sessions or trade 
shows. 
g. 
Recordkeeping. The applicant shall track and document training 
hour requirements in a process approved by the Board. The 
applicant shall retain the documentation for a minimum of three 
years following completion of the activity. Documentation shall 
contain, at a minimum, the following information: 
(1) 
Apprentice electrician name; 
(2) 
Activity type; 
(3) 
Activity location and date(s); 
(4) 
Activity title and description of content and objectives; 
(5) 
Name and contact information of the sponsor or training 
provider (e.g. organization, institution, association, employer, 
vendor, or publication); 
(6) 
Instructor or speaker name(s), as applicable; 
(7) 
Name and contact information of the monitor, facilitator, or 
mentor, as applicable; 
(8) 
Certificate of completion; and, 
(9) 
Number of classroom hours. 
h. 
Training earned under this requirement shall not qualify for any 
other education, training, or experience credit. 
E. 
License by Endorsement

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
13 
1. 
Applicants from another jurisdiction may be eligible for licensure by 
endorsement providing that the applicant meets the requirements of 
section 12-115-113, C.R.S., and all of the following conditions: 
a. 
An active residential wireman’s license, journeyman electrician’s 
license, or master electrician’s license in another state, respective 
to the license the applicant is applying for; 
b. 
Successfully completed a state or federally-approved 
apprenticeship program, or obtained the required years and type of 
experience and completed the required electrical training for the 
comparable license; and, 
c. 
Successfully completed a comparable written state electrical 
examination based on the current edition of the National Electrical 
Code in effect at the time the application is submitted to the Board. 
2. 
Proof of successful completion of the requirements in Board Rule 1.7(E) 
shall be submitted on the verification forms prepared and furnished by the 
Board, as part of the application for endorsement. 
3. 
Qualification may be accumulated in multiple states, provided the 
qualifications meet the requirements of Board Rule 1.7(E)(1). 
4. 
Substantially equivalent credentials and qualifications include electrical 
training in compliance with Board Rule 1.7(D). The Board will consider 
requests to waive the requirements of Board Rule 1.7(D) on a case by 
case basis to determine where the other jurisdiction’s credentials and 
qualifications are substantially equivalent. 
F. 
License by Reciprocity 
1. 
Conditions for reciprocity for a Colorado journeyman electrician’s license. 
Applicants must: 
a. 
Hold, from the licensing state, a journeyman license or a master 
electrician license, that allows the individual to work as a 
journeyman electrician, that is current, active, and in good standing; 
b. 
Possess a journeyman electrician’s license, or master electrician’s 
license from a state that is a member in good standing of the 
National Electrical Reciprocal Alliance (NERA), or from any entity or 
jurisdiction that has a reciprocity agreement with the Board. 
2. 
Applicants will not be granted a reciprocal license where the license in the 
licensing state was granted by grandfathering without having passed a 
state-administered examination.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
14 
3. 
A Colorado master electrician’s license may not be granted by reciprocity. 
G. 
Military. Education, training, or service gained in military services outlined in 
section 12-20-202(4), C.R.S., to be accepted and applied towards receiving a 
license, must be substantially equivalent, as determined by the Board, to the 
qualifications otherwise applicable at the time of receipt of application. It is the 
applicant’s responsibility to provide timely and complete evidence for review and 
consideration. Satisfactory evidence of such education, training, or service will be 
assessed on a case by case basis. 
H. 
Reconsideration. An applicant requesting reconsideration of a Board action or 
requesting a personal interview before the Board, shall submit the request in 
writing, accompanied by additional information or documentation not made 
available to the Board prior to a previous ruling. This request shall be submitted 
within forty-five days of the date on which the Board made the decision. Any 
request filed after forty-five days will not be considered by the Board. 
I. 
Temporary Work Permits 
1. 
Pursuant to section 12-115-114, C.R.S., a temporary work permit may be 
issued at the time of approval for an examination. The temporary permit 
will be valid for a period of no more than thirty (30) days after the date of 
approval or as otherwise limited in section 12-115-114, C.R.S. 
2. 
A temporary work permit shall not be accepted to meet the requirements 
for obtaining a new electrical contractor registration. 
a. 
A temporary master electrician work permit may be issued to a 
qualified applicant of an existing electrical contractor pursuant to 
section 12-115-114, C.R.S. 
J. 
Application Retention 
1. 
Incomplete Applications. An application for a license by examination or 
endorsement submitted without all required fees and documentation will 
be considered incomplete. Incomplete applications will be retained for one 
year from the date originally submitted, after which applicants shall begin 
the process again including payment of the application fee. 
1.8 
EXAMINATIONS 
This Rule is promulgated pursuant to sections 12-20-204, 12-115-107(2)(a), and 12-
115-110(4)(a), C.R.S. 
A. 
The candidate must present positive photo identification in order to be admitted 
to the examination area.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
15 
B. 
Proprietary Information. The content and answers to examinations and 
assessments for licensure or renewal administered by the Board are proprietary 
property. Licensees and registrants shall not disclose, or offer to disclose any 
portion of the examinations or assessment to others. Licensees and registrants 
may be subject to disciplinary action by the Board should they disclose, or offer 
to disclose, sell or otherwise distribute the content and/or answers for any 
examinations or assessments administered by the Board. 
C. 
Examination results will be provided in writing to each examinee in a pass or fail 
format. Results will not be given in any other manner. 
D. 
Examinations shall not be subject to review by candidates. 
E. 
The Board designates the Division to secure such means to conduct and grade 
examinations pursuant to their authority in section 12-115-110(4)(a), C.R.S. 
1.9 
PERMITS, INSPECTIONS, AND VERIFICATION OF LICENSES AND 
REGISTRATIONS 
This Rule is promulgated pursuant to sections 12-20-204, 12-115-107(2)(a), and 12-
115-116, C.R.S. 
A. Permits 
1. 
Wiring permit applications shall be issued in the name of the qualified 
applicant (see section 12-115-116 (2), C.R.S.) or registered electrical 
contractor performing the electrical work. The qualified applicant is defined 
as a homeowner performing work in accordance with statutory 
requirements. 
2. 
A permit shall be required for all systems supplying power that may 
normally be supplied by an electrical utility, such as, but not limited to, 
solar, wind, hydroelectric and other generated sources. (The Board or its 
administrative officer may revoke a permit that was issued in error or on 
the basis of incorrect information supplied by the applicant.) 
3. 
Any permit issued as a result of fraudulent or incorrect information 
supplied on the application shall be cancelled. 
4. 
An electrical contractor or photovoltaic installer shall not purchase a permit 
for use by another company or individual. 
5. 
A contractor or photovoltaic installer shall not perform any electrical or 
photovoltaic work under a homeowner’s permit or prior electrical 
contractor’s or photovoltaic installer’s permit but shall secure a new 
electrical permit in the name of the contractor performing the work.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
16 
Exception: A project where subcontractors may be needed to perform 
work under the direction and existing permit of the prime electrical 
contractor. 
6. 
Any work commencing prior to the purchase of a permit is subject to twice 
the prescribed permit fee. 
7. 
Stop Work Order 
a. 
Notice to owner. Upon notice from the electrical inspector that work 
on any building or structure is being installed contrary to the 
provisions of this code or in an unsafe and dangerous manner, 
such work shall be immediately stopped. The stop work order shall 
be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property 
involved, or to the owner’s agent or to the person doing the work, or 
posted at the job site and shall state the conditions under which 
work will be permitted to resume. 
b. 
Unlawful continuance. Any person who shall continue any work in 
or about the structure after having been served with a stop work 
order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to 
remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to penalties 
as prescribed by this article. 
c. 
Additions, alterations or repairs may be made to any electrical 
system and equipment without requiring the existing electrical 
system and equipment to comply with all the requirements of the 
Board standards, provided that the addition, alteration or repair 
conforms to that required for a new electrical system and 
equipment, and provided further that no hazard to life, health or 
safety will be created by such additions, alterations or repairs. 
d. 
Existing electrical wiring systems may continue to be energized 
provided that they were lawfully installed and that they present no 
hazard to life, health or property. 
e. 
Services to moved buildings shall comply with the standards of the 
Board for new installations. The existing electrical wiring may be re-
energized provided that a registered electrical contractor gives 
written verification to the Board that the existing electrical 
installation presents no hazard to life, health or property. Permits 
and inspections shall be required. 
8. 
Photovoltaic permit applications shall be issued in the name of the 
qualified applicant (see section 12-115-116 (2), C.R.S.) or registered 
photovoltaic installer performing the photovoltaic work. 
B. 
Inspections

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
17 
1. 
An inspection request will only be accepted from the permit owner or their 
agent. 
2. 
An individual requesting an electrical inspection shall provide reasonable 
access to the inspection area during the normal working hours of the 
Board office. 
3. 
Article 110.2, “Approval”, in the National Electrical Code, provides that 
conductors and equipment required or permitted by this code shall be 
acceptable only when “approved”. The Board will accept conductors and 
equipment that have been tested and approved by a recognized testing 
agency such as Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., or field-evaluated by a 
certified Field Evaluation Body (FEB) in accordance with NFPA 790 and 
791. FEB certification is to be provided by International Accreditation 
Service (IAS) or equal. The Board reserves the right of its inspectors to 
reject any conductors or equipment that in their opinion may be unsafe or 
injurious to life or property. 
4. 
An incorporated town or city, county, city and county, or qualified state 
institution of higher education shall ensure that its inspections are 
performed by inspectors who possess the qualifications required under 
section 12-115-119, C.R.S. Failure to do so may be deemed a failure to 
meet the minimum requirements of this article under section 12-115-
107(2)(j), C.R.S. 
5. 
Reinspection Fees. A reinspection fee may be assessed at the discretion 
of the inspector for reasons including, but not limited to, the following: 
a. 
The job is not ready for an inspection and an extra trip is required 
for the inspector (a job with multiple code violations may be 
considered “not ready” by the inspector). 
b. 
Corrections have not been made to all code violations cited from 
previous inspection. 
c. 
No access to the job site for reasons including but not limited to; 
locked gate or door, snow not plowed, no escort into an occupied 
structure, etc. (inspectors may not enter an occupied residence 
without an escort at least eighteen years or older). 
d. 
Hazardous construction site as determined by the inspector or 
OSHA guidelines (may include loose dogs, etc.). 
e. 
Address not posted so as to be visible from the street or road. 
f. 
Improper directions to jobsite given on permit or inspection 
requests.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
18 
g. 
A reinspection shall not be performed until the reinspection fee has 
been paid. 
h. 
A final inspection shall not be performed until a permanent 
electrical load consistent with the type of structure is connected. 
i. 
As used in section 12-115-122(1)(c), C.R.S., the term “reasonable 
time” shall mean thirty calendar days, unless the licensee or 
registrant appeals to the Board for a hearing on the matter, in which 
case the thirty calendar day time period shall be extended by the 
Board until the Board rules on the appeal. The thirty calendar day 
time period shall restart after the Board issues a ruling on the 
appeal. 
C. 
License and Registration verification 
1. 
An inspector shall, based on that inspector’s familiarity with the installer, 
require each individual doing electrical work as defined by section 12-115-
103, C.R.S., to produce documentation showing they are a currently 
licensed Colorado state electrician,  registered apprentice or NABCEP 
Photovoltaic Installation Professional. 
2. 
Such documentation must either be on their person or may be on the job 
site where it is readily attainable for presentation to the inspector upon 
request. 
1.10 ENFORCEMENT 
This Rule is promulgated pursuant to sections 12-20-204, 12-115-107(2)(a), and 12-
115-122, C.R.S. 
A. 
Cooperation with Board Investigations. Licensees and registrants having 
knowledge of, and/or involvement in, any alleged violation of Title 12, Article 115, 
and/or Board Rules, shall cooperate with any investigation initiated by the Board 
and timely furnish such information or assistance as may be requested. 
B. 
Report Convictions, Judgments, and Administrative Proceedings 
1. 
A licensee or registrant shall inform the Board, in a manner set forth by the 
Board, within thirty days of any of the following occurrences: the conviction 
of the registrant or licensee of a felony under the laws of any State or of 
the United States. 
2. 
A licensee or registrant convicted of a felony under the laws of any State 
or of the United States is grounds for discipline pursuant to section 12-
115-122, C.R.S. 
3. 
For purposes of this Rule, a “conviction” includes:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
19 
a. 
A guilty verdict; 
b. 
A plea of guilty accepted by the court; or 
c. 
A plea of nolo contendere (no contest) accepted by the court. 
4. 
The notice to the Board shall include the following information: 
a. 
The court; 
b. 
The jurisdiction; 
c. 
The case name; 
d. 
The case number; and, 
e. 
A description of the matter or copy of the indictment or charges. 
5. 
The licensee or registrant shall inform the Board of the following 
information within thirty days of each such occurrence: 
a. 
The imposition of a sentence for a felony conviction; and, 
b. 
The completion of all terms of a sentence for a felony conviction. 
6. 
The licensee or registrant notifying the Board may submit a written 
statement with any notice under this Rule to be included in the registrant 
or licensee records. 
7. 
This Rule shall apply to any conviction or plea as described in Board Rule 
1.10(B)(3). 
C. 
Citations 
1. 
The citation form shall be completed by the state electrical inspector. 
Citations will be served by certified mail or in person by a state electrical 
inspector. Completed, served citation forms will be mailed to the Board for 
review. The Board maintains the discretion to dismiss the citation at any 
time. 
2. 
The citation form shall direct the recipient to respond in one of the 
following ways within ten working days after service of the citation: 
a. 
Pay the fine; or 
b. 
Submit a written request to negotiate a stipulated settlement 
agreement with the Program Director; or 
c. 
Submit a written request for a formal administrative hearing.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
20 
3. 
Fines 
a. 
If one of the following actions has not been taken by the citation 
recipient within ten working days following the service of the 
citation, the citation shall become a final Board action: 
(1) 
Full payment of the fine; 
(2) 
Written request for negotiation of a stipulated settlement 
agreement; 
(3) 
Written request for a formal administrative hearing. 
b. 
In any action to collect a fine, the Board shall seek reasonable 
attorney fees and costs. 
c. 
For good cause the Board may extend the 10 day working period, 
as set forth in Board Rule 1.10(C)(3)(a), in which a citation recipient 
may request a hearing. 
4. 
Negotiations 
a. 
A written request and explanation for negotiation of a stipulated 
settlement agreement shall be submitted to the Program Director or 
designee and may include information in mitigation of the violation. 
The date the request for negotiation of a stipulated agreement is 
received by the Program Director constitutes the submittal date. 
After reviewing the requested settlement information, the Program 
Director has the option to authorize the following actions: 
(1) 
Issue a letter of admonition; 
(2) 
Dismiss the citation; 
(3) 
Reduce the fine; 
(4) 
Arrange a payment schedule; 
(5) 
Permit a personal appearance before the Board; and/or, 
(6) 
Refer the matter for a formal administrative hearing. 
b. 
Negotiations may terminate for reasons including but not limited to: 
(1) 
The recipient admits to committing the violation; 
(2) 
The recipient does not conduct settlement negotiations 
timely and in writing;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
21 
(3) 
The recipient does not present reasonable mitigating or 
extenuating information in writing; 
(4) 
The Program Director determines the settlement 
negotiations are not being conducted in good faith or are 
being conducted for the purpose of delay; 
(5) 
It appears unlikely the parties will reach a negotiated 
resolution; and/or, 
(6) 
The recipient has prior violations that need to be brought to 
the Board’s attention prior to attempting settlement 
negotiations. 
c. 
A stipulated settlement agreement shall be considered a violation 
for the purpose of determining the fine amount in subsequent 
violations. The stipulated settlement agreement may contain an 
admission of the violation(s). A stipulated settlement agreement 
shall be signed and dated by both the Program Director or Board 
chair or designee and the citation recipient. A stipulated settlement 
agreement shall be approved by the Board in order to become a 
final agency order. 
d. 
A written request from the citation recipient to proceed to a formal 
hearing may be submitted at any time during settlement 
negotiations. If the negotiations are subsequently deemed futile, the 
citation recipient shall be notified that payment of the fine or request 
a formal administrative hearing shall be submitted within ten 
calendar days. Written settlement information may be used against 
the licensee, registrant, applicant or respondent at the hearing 
when unsuccessful settlement negotiations proceed to a formal 
hearing. 
e. 
When the citation recipient retains an attorney for assistance during 
stipulated settlement negotiations, the Board or Program Director 
may request the Attorney General to assist with settlement 
negotiations. 
f. 
Hearings. Hearings shall be conducted in accordance with the 
Administrative Procedure Act. The hearings shall be conducted by 
an administrative law judge at the Office of Administrative Courts. 
The citation recipient may be represented by counsel of his or her 
choosing. 
(1) 
At the formal administrative hearing, the Board may pursue 
the award of the maximum fine allowed by statute. At the 
formal administrative hearing, the Board may also pursue 
the award of any other disciplinary sanctions such as

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
22 
revocation, suspension or probation. The Board shall review 
the entire citation history of a licensee, as found in the 
Board's records, in any disciplinary action against a licensee. 
g. 
Inspectors shall not negotiate settlements or accept payment of 
fines. 
D. 
Fine Schedule. The following is the current fine schedule adopted by the Board 
pursuant to section 12-115-122(3)(a), C.R.S. 
 
Violation 
Statutory 
Provision 
1st 
Offense 
2nd 
Offense 
Subsequent 
Offense 
Engaging in the business, trade, or 
calling of a journeyman electrician 
without a license 
12-115-109(1) 
$225 
$600 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day 
Engaging in the business, trade, or 
calling of a master electrician 
without a license 
12-115-109(1) 
$300 
$600 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day 
Engaging in the business, trade, or 
calling of a residential wireman 
without a license 
12-115-109(2) 
$150 
$375 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day 
Performing electrical work beyond 
the authorization of a residential 
wireman license 
12-115-109(1) 
$375 
$750 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day 
Failure of an electrical contractor to 
register an apprentice 
12-115-115(3) 
12-115-
122(1)(a) 
$225 
$600 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day 
Failure of a licensee or registered 
apprentice to produce a license or 
registration as required by Rule 7.3 
12-115-
122(1)(b) 
$50 
$200 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day 
Employment by an electrical 
contractor of unlicensed persons 
doing electrical work 
12-115-
122(1)(k) 
$300 
$600 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day 
Engaging in the business of an 
electrical contractor or photovoltaic 
installer without obtaining 
registration from the Board 
12-115-
110(5)(a) 
$750 
$1,500 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
23 
Violation 
Statutory 
Provision 
1st 
Offense 
2nd 
Offense 
Subsequent 
Offense 
Applying for an electrical permit if 
not qualified applicant 
12-115-
113(1)(r) 
12-115-
122(1)(q) 
$375 
$900 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day 
Failure of a licensed electrician to 
supervise an apprentice 
12-115-
115(1), 
12-115-
115(3)(b) 
12-115-
122(1)(j) 
$375 
$600 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day 
Failure of an electrical contractor to 
maintain a supervisory ratio of one 
licensed electrician to three 
apprentices 
12-115-115(1) 
$375 
$600 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day 
Failure to obtain a permit and/or 
failure to obtain an inspection 
12-115-120 
12-115-
122(1)(a) 
$375 
$900 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day 
Failure to remove a cause for 
disapproval of any electrical 
installation within a reasonable time  
12-115-
122(1)(c) 
$450 
$900 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day 
Advertising by a licensee or 
registrant which is false or 
misleading 
12-115-
122(1)(h) 
$375 
$750 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day 
Deception, misrepresentation or 
fraud in obtaining or attempting to 
obtain a license (includes loaning a 
license) 
12-115-
122(1)(i) 
$1,000 
$2,000 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day 
Failure to comply with other state or 
federal law (safety, health, 
insurance, tax) 
12-115-
122(1)(p) 
$375 
$750 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day 
Other violations of the state 
electrical statutes, rules, or Board 
orders. 
12-115-122(1) 
Up to 
$1,000 
Up to 
$2,000 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
24 
E. 
Compliance. Payment of a fine assessed from a citation does not relieve the 
receiver of the citation from correcting the situation, installation, statute or code 
violation noted in the citation. 
1.11 DECLARATORY ORDERS 
This Rule is promulgated pursuant to sections 12-20-204, 12-115-107(2)(a), and 24-4-
105(11), C.R.S. 
A. 
Any person may petition the Board for a declaratory order to terminate 
controversies or to remove uncertainties as to the applicability to the petitioner of 
any statutory provision or of any rule or order of the Board. 
B. 
The Board will determine, in its discretion and without notice to the petitioner, 
whether to rule upon any such petition. If the Board determines that it will not rule 
upon such a petition, the Board shall promptly notify the petitioner of its action 
and state the reasons for such action. 
C. 
The Board shall consider the following matters, among others in determining 
whether to rule upon a petition filed pursuant to this Rule: 
1. 
If a rule on the petition will terminate a controversy or remove 
uncertainties as to the applicability to petitioner of any statutory provision 
or rule or order of the Board. 
2. 
If the petition involves any subject, question or issue which is the subject 
of a formal or informal matter or investigation currently pending before the 
Board or a court involving one or more of the petitioners. 
3. 
If the petition involves any subject, question or issue that is the subject of 
a formal or informal matter of investigation currently pending before the 
Board or a court but not involving any petitioner. 
4. 
If the petition seeks a ruling on a moot or hypothetical question or will 
result in an advisory ruling or opinion. 
5. 
If the petitioner has some other adequate legal remedy, other than an 
action for declaratory relief pursuant to Rule 57, Colo. R. Civ.P., that will 
terminate the controversy or remove any uncertainty as to the applicability 
to the petitioner of the statute, rule or order in question. 
D. 
A petition filed pursuant to this Rule shall set forth the following: 
1. 
The name and address of the petitioner and whether the petitioner is 
licensed pursuant to the organic act. 
2. 
The statute, rule or order to which the petition relates; and,

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
25 
3. 
A concise statement of all of the facts necessary to show the nature of the 
controversy or uncertainty and the manner in which the statute, rule or 
order in question applies or potentially applies to the petitioner. 
E. 
If the Board determines that it will rule on the petition, the following procedures 
shall apply: 
1. 
The Board may rule upon the petition based solely upon the facts 
presented in the petition. In such a case: 
a. 
Any ruling of the Board will apply only to the extent of the facts 
presented in the petition and any amendment to the petition. 
b. 
The Board may order the petitioner to file a written brief, 
memorandum or statement of position. 
c. 
The Board may set the petition, upon due notice to petitioner, for a 
non-evidentiary hearing. 
d. 
The Board may dispose of the petition on the sole basis of the 
matters set forth in the petition. 
e. 
The Board may request the petitioner to submit additional facts, in 
writing. In such event, such additional facts will be considered as an 
amendment to the petition. 
f. 
The Board may take administrative notice of facts pursuant to the 
Administrative Procedure Act (section 24-4-105(8), C.R.S.) and 
may utilize its experience, technical competence and specialized 
knowledge in the disposition. If the Board rules upon the petition 
without a hearing, it shall promptly notify the petitioner of its 
decision. 
2. 
The Board may, in its discretion, set the petition for hearing upon due 
notice to petitioner, for the purpose of obtaining additional facts or 
information or to determine the truth of any facts set forth in the petition or 
to hear oral argument on the petition. The notice to the petitioner setting 
such hearing shall set forth, to the extent known, the factual or other 
matters into which the Board intends to inquire. For the purpose of such a 
hearing, to the extent necessary, the petitioner shall have the burden of 
proving all of the facts stated in the petition, all of the facts necessary to 
show the nature of the controversy or uncertainty and the manner in which 
the statute, rule or order in question applies or potentially applies to the 
petitioner and any other facts the petitioner desires the Board to consider. 
F. 
The parties to any proceeding pursuant to this Rule shall be the Board and the 
petitioner. Any other person may seek leave of the Board to intervene in such a 
proceeding, and leave to intervene will be granted at the sole discretion of the

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
26 
Board. A petition to intervene shall set forth the same matters as required by 
Board Rule 1.11(D). Any reference to a “petitioner” in this Rule also refers to any 
person who has been granted leave to intervene by the Board. 
G. 
A declaratory order or other order disposing of a petition pursuant to this Rule 
shall constitute agency action subject to judicial review pursuant to section 24-4-
106, C.R.S. 
1.12 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR QUALIFICATIONS 
This Rule is promulgated pursuant to sections 12-20-204, 12-115-107(2)(a), and 12-
115-119, C.R.S. 
A. 
Applicant. All applicants for the position of state electrical inspector must possess 
a current journeyman or master electrician license issued by the State of 
Colorado. 
B. 
Electrician License. Electrical inspectors must maintain a current Colorado 
journeyman or master electrician license. 
C. 
Residential Inspector Training. Persons who are undergoing their two year 
practical electrical inspection experience training pursuant to section 12-115-
119(1)(a)(I)(B), C.R.S. (one year being the equivalent of 2,000 hours): 
1. 
Shall be accompanied at all times by a Colorado licensed electrician who 
is employed as an electrical inspector by the same jurisdictional authority; 
2. 
Shall complete all of the two year practical training in the field, under 
actual electrical inspection situations; 
3. 
Shall not provide any electrical inspections without being accompanied by 
a Colorado licensed electrical inspector; 
4. 
Shall not sign off any electrical inspections; and 
5. 
Shall not release any electrical meter sets to any electrical utility. 
D. 
Registration with the State. Persons qualifying as residential electrical inspectors 
pursuant to section 12-115-119(1)(a)(I)(B), C.R.S., shall, when registering with 
the state pursuant to section 12-115-119(1)(a)(II)(b), C.R.S., prior to assumption 
of their duties, furnish satisfactory evidence of their two year practical experience 
in the electrical inspection of residential dwellings to include. 
1. 
Beginning and ending dates; 
2. 
Instructor name(s); and 
3. 
Jurisdiction in which training was conducted

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
27 
1.13 RENEWAL AND REINSTATEMENT 
This Rule is promulgated pursuant to sections 12-20-202, 12-20-203, 12-20-204, 12-
115-107(2)(a), and 12-115-110, C.R.S. 
A. 
Renewal. Board issued licenses, photovoltaic installers and electrical contractor 
registrations shall be renewed every three years to correspond with the Board’s 
adoption of the National Electrical Code. 
1. 
A licensee or registrant shall have a sixty day grace period to renew such 
license or registration without the imposition of a disciplinary sanction for 
practicing on an expired license or registration. During this grace period, a 
delinquency fee shall be charged for late renewal. 
2. 
A licensee or registrant who does not renew such license or registration 
within the sixty day grace period shall be deemed as having an expired 
license or registration and shall be ineligible to practice until such license 
or registration is reinstated. If the licensee or registrant practices with an 
expired license or registration, the Board may impose disciplinary actions. 
B. 
Reinstatement. An expired license may be reinstated by submitting a 
reinstatement application, paying the current reinstatement fee, and meeting the 
appropriate requirements below. 
1. 
Expired for More Than Sixty Days But Less Than Two Years. To reinstate 
a license that has been expired for more than sixty days but less than two 
years, the applicant must provide evidence of completion, since 
applicant’s most recent licensing event (original license, renewal or 
reinstatement) preceding the application for reinstatement, of twenty-four 
hours of continuing education, as defined in Board Rule 1.13(C). 
2. 
Expired for More Than Two Years. If the license has been expired for 
more than two years, pursuant to section 12-20-202(2)(c)(II), C.R.S., the 
applicant must demonstrate competency to practice by any of the 
following: 
a. 
Satisfactorily pass the state electrical examination; 
b. 
Provide verification of an active license with a state where a 
reciprocal agreement for an equivalent license exists; 
c. 
Provide verification of active licensure in a non-reciprocal state as 
follows: 
(1) 
Verify an active residential wireman’s license, journeyman 
electrician’s license, or master electrician’s license in non-
reciprocal state, respective to the license being reinstated; 
and,

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
28 
(2) 
Evidence of completing twenty-four continuing education 
hours pursuant to Board Rule 1.13(C) since applicant’s most 
recent licensing event (original license, renewal or 
reinstatement) preceding the application for reinstatement. 
d. 
By other means approved by the Board. 
e. 
Holding an active Colorado electrician license that is more 
advanced than the license to be reinstated. 
C. 
Continuing Education Requirements 
1. 
Statutory Basis. Pursuant to section 12-115-110(4)(d)(I)(A), C.R.S., the 
Board shall adopt rules establishing continuing education requirements 
and standards that a licensee shall demonstrate in order to renew a 
license. Such requirements and standards must include course work 
related to the National Electrical Code, including core competencies as 
determined by the board. 
2. 
Basis of Requirements. As established by the Colorado General 
Assembly, the regulatory authority of the Board is to establish continuing 
education standards to renew, reinstate or reactivate a license and the 
documentation necessary to demonstrate compliance. 
3. 
Definitions 
a. 
Core Competencies: Core Competencies are technical and 
professional subjects, related to the practice of electrical work, 
which the Board deems necessary to safeguard the public. 
b. 
Inactive Status: A licensee is not required to comply with continuing 
education requirements to renew a license in inactive status. An 
individual whose license is in inactive status is prohibited by law 
from practicing as a licensed electrician. 
c. 
National Electrical Code: The National Electrical Code shall refer to 
the code for the safe installation of electrical wiring and equipment, 
as amended, published by the National Fire Protection Association 
and approved by the American National Standards Institute, or its 
successor organization. 
d. 
Attesting Providers list: A publicly available list containing 
continuing education providers that have attested their courses and 
instructors meet all the requirements of Board Rules 1.13(C)(4) and 
1.13(C)(5). Credit will be earned by a licensee by completing a 
course from a provider on this list. 
4. 
Requirements

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
29 
a. 
Each renewal cycle, or upon the completion of the first renewal of a 
license for which, as a condition of issuance, the applicant 
successfully completed a licensing examination, thereafter, a 
licensee in active status shall complete twenty-four hours of 
continuing education in order to renew a license to perform 
electrical work in Colorado. The continuing education hours must 
be selected from among the Core Competencies below in any 
combination, except that a minimum of four continuing education 
hours must be related to National Electrical Code changes. No 
more than four hours will be credited in safety courses related to 
the electrical industry; however, there is not a minimum 
requirement in safety training: 
(1) 
Grounding and Bonding 
(2) 
National Electrical Code changes 
(3) 
Wiring methods 
(4) 
Theory and calculations 
(5) 
Safety related to the electrical industry. 
b. 
Continuing education credits will only apply to one three-year 
renewal period. 
c. 
Licensees shall cooperate with the Board to determine compliance 
with continuing education requirements. 
5. 
Attesting Providers. Continuing education providers, must attest that their 
courses and instructors meet the continuing education requirements of 
Board Rules 1.13(C)(4) and 1.15(C)(5) and be accepted by the Board 
before a licensee can earn credit toward the continuing education 
requirement as described in Board Rule 1.13(C). The list of Attesting 
Providers shall expire on December 31st of the final year of the current 
code cycle. 
a. 
The Board has sole discretion to accept providers that have 
attested. 
b. 
Providers: Providers may be accepted by the Board if they attest 
that their courses and instructors meet all the requirements of 
Board Rules 1.13(C)(4) and 1.13(C)(5). 
(1) 
As proof of course completion, the Board will accept a 
certificate of completion from the course provider.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
30 
(2) 
Certificates of completion shall not be issued to attendees 
unless the course is successfully completed. Certificates of 
completion shall include all of the following elements: 
(a) 
Name of attendee; 
(b) 
Attendee’s Colorado electrician’s license number; 
(c) 
Date of course; 
(d) 
Provider name; 
(e) 
Course title; 
(f) 
Instructor name; and 
(g) 
Number hours of continuing education credit earned. 
c. 
Courses: Criteria for courses from Attesting Providers shall include 
the following: 
(1) 
Each course shall cover a minimum of one core 
competency, as listed in Board Rule 1.13(C)(4)(a). 
(2) 
All online courses or webinars shall be interactive. Each 
course must have capabilities in place to ensure active 
participation and demonstrate comprehension a minimum of 
once per hour, and fast forward must be disabled. 
d. 
Instructors: Courses must be taught by instructors with the following 
qualifications: 
(1) 
Instructors must be sponsored by an Attesting Provider. 
(2) 
Instructor’s background and experience must meet at least 
one of the following criteria. 
(a) 
Graduate electrical engineer licensed as an 
electrician; 
(b) 
Hold a minimum of a Colorado journeyman 
electrician’s license (or equivalent) plus a minimum of 
one year of journeyman electrician field experience; 
(c) 
Community college or vo-tech instructor as approved 
by the Board; or 
(d) 
Electrical continuing education instructor from other 
areas as approved by the Board.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
31 
(e) 
Instructor shall provide documentation of background 
and experience as requested by the Board. 
e. 
Once accepted by the Board, providers will be placed on the 
Board’s Attesting Providers list. 
f. 
The Board has sole discretion to accept or reject any continuing 
education credit earned by a licensee from a provider that is not on 
the Board’s Attesting Providers list. 
g. 
The Board has discretion to remove providers from the Attesting 
Providers list. 
6. 
Recordkeeping 
a. 
The licensee shall track and document completed continuing 
education in a process approved by the Board. 
b. 
The licensee shall retain documentation for a minimum of seven 
years. 
7. 
Repealed 
8. 
Audits 
a. 
The Board may conduct audits of continuing education for 
verification of compliance with these requirements at any time. The 
Board may, at its discretion, disallow any continuing education 
course completed by a licensee that was not offered by a provider 
on the Attesting Providers list. 
b. 
A licensee shall provide all documentation requested for audit 
within thirty days of the request. 
9. 
Multiple Licenses 
a. 
A licensee holding multiple licenses issued by the Board shall 
complete continuing education requirements for the most advanced 
license held. Completion of continuing education requirements for 
the most advanced license shall satisfy the requirements for all 
lesser licenses. 
D. 
Inactive License Status and Reactivation

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
32 
1. 
Inactive License. Pursuant to section 12-20-203, C.R.S., any licensee may 
apply to the Board to transfer the individual’s license to inactive status. 
Such application shall be in the form and manner designated by the 
Board. The holder of an inactive license shall not be required to comply 
with continuing education requirements for renewal so long the license 
remains inactive. 
a. 
Each holder of an inactive license shall renew once every three 
years with the Board in the same manner as active license holders 
and pay a fee pursuant to section 12-115-117, C.R.S. 
b. 
During such time as a license remains in an inactive status, the 
licensee shall not perform any acts restricted to active licensed 
electricians. Such practice may be grounds for revocation. 
2. 
Reactivation of Inactive License. An inactive license may be reactivated by 
submitting the proper application, paying the current reactivation fee, and 
meeting the appropriate requirements below. 
a. 
Inactive for Less Than Three Years. To reactivate a license that 
has been inactive for less than three years, the applicant must 
provide evidence of completion, within the three years immediately 
preceding the application for reinstatement, of twenty-four hours of 
continuing education, as defined in Board Rule 1.13(C). 
b. 
Inactive for More Than Three Years. Pursuant to section 12-115-
110(4)(c), C.R.S., a licensee whose license has been inactive for 
more than three years must demonstrate education to practice by 
any of the following: 
(1) 
Satisfactorily pass the state electrical examination; 
(2) 
Provide verification of an active license with a state where a 
reciprocal agreement for an equivalent license exists; 
(3) 
Provide verification of active licensure in a non-reciprocal 
state as follows: 
(a) 
Verify an active residential wireman’s license, 
journeyman electrician’s license, or master 
electrician’s license in nonreciprocal state, respective 
to the license you are reinstating; and, 
(b) 
Evidence of completing twenty-four continuing 
education hours pursuant to Board Rule 1.13(C) in 
the three years immediately preceding the application 
for reinstatement.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
33 
(4) 
By other means approved by the Board. 
3. 
Practicing with an Inactive License. Practicing electrical work with a 
license in inactive status shall constitute practice without an active license 
and, therefore, may be grounds for injunctive or disciplinary action, up to 
and including revocation. 
E. 
Loss of Responsible Master. An electrical contractor who loses the services of 
the responsible master electrician, for any reason, will be allowed twenty days in 
which to hire another master electrician. If the electrical contractor has not hired 
another master electrician during that period, the Board shall place the electrical 
contractor registration into inactive status until such time that the contractor 
submits evidence that a master electrician has been hired, and the appropriate 
fee has been paid. 
F. 
Any NABCEP certified, licensed or registered individual working as an electrician 
shall be required to carry on their person the appropriate license, certificate, 
temporary work permit, or registration. 
G. 
Personal Information Change 
1. 
A licensee or registrant shall inform the Board in a clear, explicit, and 
unambiguous written statement of any name, address, telephone, or email 
change within thirty (30) days of the change. The Board will not change 
the licensee or registrant information without explicit written notification 
from the licensee or registrant. Notification by any manner approved by 
the Board is acceptable. 
a. 
The Division of Professions and Occupations maintains one contact 
address for each licensee or registrant, regardless of the number of 
licenses or registrations the licensee or registrant may hold. 
b. 
Address change requests for some, but not all, communications or 
for confidential communications only are not accepted. 
2. 
The Board requires one of the following forms of documentation to change 
the name or correct a social security number or individual taxpayer 
identification number of a licensee or registrant: 
a. 
Marriage license; 
b. 
Divorce decree; 
c. 
Court order; 
d. 
Documentation from the Internal Revenue Service verifying the 
licensee’s valid individual taxpayer identification number; or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
34 
e. 
A driver’s license or social security card with a second form of 
identification may be acceptable at the discretion of the Division of 
Professions and Occupations. 
H. 
Contractor Registration and Advertising 
1. 
Registered Electrical Contractors and Photovoltaic Installers shall not 
advertise in any manner, by any name, including DBAs, other than the 
registered company name on record with Department of Regulatory 
Agencies. 
I. 
Loss of Responsible Agent or NABCEP certified professional. A photovoltaic 
installer who loses the services of the responsible agent or NABCEP certified 
professional, for any reason, will be allowed twenty days in which to hire another 
agent or NABCEP certified professional. If the photovoltaic installer has not hired 
another agent or NABCEP certified professional during that period, the Board 
shall place the photovoltaic installer into inactive status until such time that the 
photovoltaic installer submits evidence that an agent or NABCEP certified 
professional has been hired.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 710-1 
State Electrical Board 
 
35 
Editor's Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 08/01/2008. 
Rules 3.7, 5.0-5.2, 9.0-10.0 eff. 08/01/2010. 
Entire rule eff. 03/17/2011. 
Rules 8.1, 9.7 m eff. 09/15/2011. 
Rules 3.0-10.7 eff. 07/15/2012. 
Entire rule eff. 07/01/2014. 
Rules 2.2, 3.1, 4.4.1.2.B, 4.4.1.3.A eff. 01/30/2015. 
Entire rule eff. 03/17/2017. 
Rule 2.0 eff. 06/01/2017. 
Rules 6.0, 11.0 eff. 07/15/2017. 
Rules 7.2.5.9, 8.3.3, 11.2 eff. 03/17/2018. Rule 11.3.7 repealed eff. 03/17/2018. 
Rule 8.3.3. eff. 11/14/2018. 
Rule 1.2 eff. 07/15/2020. 
Rule 1.3 E eff. 07/15/2021. 
Rule 1.11 G.2 eff. 11/30/2021. 
Entire rule eff. 07/15/2022. 
Rule 1.14 emer. rule eff. 09/28/2022. 
Rule 1.14 eff. 11/30/2022. 
Rule 1.5 C emer. rule eff. 07/26/2023. 
Rules 1.5 A, B, 1.10 D eff. 07/30/2023. 
Rule 1.5 C eff. 11/14/2023. 
Rule 1.14 repealed eff. 03/16/2024. 
Rules 1.4, 1.5 A, 1.5 C, 1.6 A-C, 1.6 E-F, 1.7 B.6, 1.7 C.6, 1.7 D, 1.7 E.1, 1.7 E.4, 1.9 
A.4-5, 1.9 A.8, 1.9 C, 1.10 D, 1.13 A, 1.13 B.2.e, 1.13 F, 1.13 H-I eff. 03/30/2026. 
Annotations 
Rules 1.14 B. and 1.14 C. (adopted 09/28/2022) were not extended by Senate Bill 23-
102 and therefore expired 05/15/2023.
