---
id: "3_CCR_703-2"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "3 CCR 703-2"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=7325&fileName=3%20CCR%20703-2&type=pdf"
---

#### 3_CCR_703-2. 3 CCR 703-2

1 
DEPARTMENT OF REGULATORY AGENCIES 
Division of Financial Services 
RULES AND REGULATIONS OF THE COLORADO DIVISION OF FINANCIAL SERVICES 
PERTAINING TO LIFE CARE INSTITUTIONS 
3 CCR 703-2 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
4.1 
Release of Escrows. 
According to C.R.S. 11-49-102 (1) (b), the release of escrowed entrance fees for previously unoccupied 
living units shall occur only after the Commissioner is satisfied that certain conditions exists as identified 
in C.R.S. 11-49-102(1)(b)(I)-(III). The provider shall file a letter application for such release which shall 
include adequate documentation to allow a determination that said conditions exist. The release of said 
escrows may occur only after the Commissioner has authorized such action in writing to the escrow 
agent. 
4.2 
Return of Unreleased Escrows - Time Limit. 
Pursuant to C.R.S. 11-49-102 (2), funds in escrow required by C.R.S. 11-49-102 (1) not otherwise 
released shall be returned to the persons making payment to the provider no later than 180 days after 
said payment. Persons making said payments may, in writing, grant extensions to the escrow agent to 
continue holding funds in escrow. No more than two extensions of 180 days each may be granted by 
such persons making payment. Therefore, the escrow agent shall return all funds held in escrow to the 
persons making payment no later than 540 days after said funds were received by the escrow agent. 
Notwithstanding the above, escrowed funds which, pursuant to a written agreement between a provider 
and prospective resident, are fully returnable to the prospective resident upon demand shall not be 
subject to the provisions of this regulation. 
5.1 
Refunds - Time Limit/Legitimate Offsets. 
This regulation will clarify terms contained in C.R.S. 11-49-103 (2) concerning refunds to a resident in the 
event of withdrawal or dismissal. As used in C.R.S. 11-49-103 (2), “reasonable period” may be 
determined by the Commissioner in each particular case, but in no event may this period exceed 180 
days. As used in C.R.S. 11-49-103 (2), “legitimate offsetting items” may include monthly fees and other 
fees or charges to the resident which have been incurred, but remain unpaid by the resident. They may 
not include marketing expenses incurred in securing substitute fees, expenditures made to repair normal 
wear to the living unit of a former resident, or other items not addressed in the agreement between the 
provider and the resident. 
7.1 
Approved List of Stocks/Bonds. 
Pursuant to C.R.S. 11-49-105 (2) (d), required reserves may include bonds and stocks selected from an 
approved list, as determined by the Commissioner. Said approved list shall consist of lawfully issued 
bonds and other evidences of indebtedness: 
(a) 
Of the United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof; 
(b) 
Guaranteed or insured as to the payment of principal and interest by the United States or any 
agency or instrumentality thereof; or 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 703-2 
Division of Financial Services 
 
2 
(c) 
Of counties, districts, townships, municipalities, and political subdivisions within the states, 
territories and districts of the United States, provided that said bonds are rated no lower than the 
second highest grade by any major bond rating service. 
8.1 
Annual Report to Current/Prospective Residents. 
Pursuant to C.R.S. 11-49-106 (3), a provider must make its annual report available to residents upon 
request. The provider, at least annually, shall provide written notice of the right to receive the annual 
report to all residents of such provider. The provider also shall make its annual report available to 
prospective residents upon request. The provider shall provide written notice of this right to all prospective 
residents in materials distributed during the solicitation of said prospective residents. 
10.1 
Designation of Auditor to Examine Life Care Institutions. 
In accordance with the provisions of C.R.S. 11-49-107, the Commissioner may designate an independent 
auditor to conduct examinations of a provider. Upon the prior written request of a provider, the 
Commissioner may designate the same independent auditor engaged by a provider to prepare certified 
financial statements of the facility, pursuant to C.R.S. 11-49-106 (1). Such a designation shall be effective 
when the Commissioner approves, in writing, each periodic engagement letter between the independent 
auditor and the provider. The engagement letter shall clearly state the independent auditor's intention to 
conduct sufficient tests of the provider's records to be able to assess the provider's level of compliance 
with all, or specifically stated, sections of Title 11, Article 49 of the Colorado Revised Statues, as 
amended, and all or specifically stated Division regulations applicable to life care institutions. The 
independent auditor must include a statement of the level of compliance with the laws and regulations 
specifically stated in the engagement letter in the report on the audited financial statements, or in a 
separate document specifically for that purpose. The failure to provide an adequate statement of the level 
of compliance may result in the Commissioner's revocation of the independent auditor's designation. 
11.1 
Notice of Intent to Become Life Care Institution. 
Pursuant to C.R.S. 11-49-108 and 109, any person or entity that desires or intends to act in the capacity 
of a life care institution must notify the Commissioner, in writing, at least 90 days prior to the execution of 
the initial life care contract or the receipt of any consideration pursuant to said contract, whichever comes 
first. Said notification must include an affirmation of the provider's intent to comply with Title 11, Article 49 
of the Colorado Revised Statutes, as amended. Failure to notify the Commissioner pursuant to this 
regulation will be considered a violation subject to C.R.S. 11-49-109. 
14.1 
Required Disclosures to Prospective Residents 
Pursuant to C.R.S. 11-49-111, life care contracts must be written in a clear and coherent manner and, 
among other things, show the value of all property transferred to a life care provider. Also, pursuant to 
C.R.S. 11-49-113, all printed matter used to solicit or induce persons to enter into a life care contract 
must clearly state the extent of the financial responsibility assumed by parties interested in or connected 
with the provider. Therefore, pursuant to C.R.S. 11-49-108, in order to effectuate the above cited 
provisions, certain disclosures to prospective residents must be provided in writing, and acknowledged in 
writing, prior to the execution of any life care contract, as defined by C.R.S. 11-49-101 (7). The 
disclosures shall read as follows: 
(a) 
I/we, the undersigned, do hereby acknowledge that I/we fully understand that no state or federal 
government agency guarantees or insures against loss any portion of the entrance fees paid to a 
life care provider under the terms of a life care contract. 
(b) 
For questions concerning the regulation of the financial affairs of life care institutions by the State 
of Colorado, please contact:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 703-2 
Division of Financial Services 
 
3 
Colorado Division of Financial Services 
1560 Broadway, Denver, CO 80202 
Phone: (303) 894-2336 
Fax: (303) 894-7886 
Said disclosures may be included in the main body of the life care contract; if so, they must: 
(a) 
Be in bold lettering of a type size no smaller than that of the main body of the contract. 
(b) 
Be contained in a paragraph, section, or subsection entitled “State of Colorado-Required 
Disclosures” 
(c) 
Be acknowledged in the paragraph, section, or subsection entitled “State of Colorado - Required 
Disclosures” by the complete signature or initials of the prospective resident(s). 
Said disclosures may be provided to the prospective resident(s) in a document separate from the life care 
contract, provided that the document is: 
(a) 
Clearly titled “State of Colorado-Required Disclosures” 
(b) 
Acknowledged, on its face, by the complete signature or initials of the prospective resident(s). 
(c) 
Acknowledged by the prospective resident(s) no more than 14 days prior to the execution of a life 
care contract by the same prospective resident(s). 
(d) 
Maintained in the files of the life care provider with a copy given the prospective resident(s). 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History
