---
id: "3_CCR_701-6"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "3 CCR 701-6"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=11962&fileName=3%20CCR%20701-6&type=pdf"
---

#### 3_CCR_701-6. 3 CCR 701-6

1 
DEPARTMENT OF REGULATORY AGENCIES 
Division of Banking 
TRUST COMPANIES 
3 CCR 701-6 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
TC1 
Definitions [Section 11-109-908, C.R.S.] 
A. 
“Appropriate.” For the purposes of Section 11-109-908(2) and (3), C.R.S., the term “appropriate” 
is defined as: 
1. 
The appropriateness of each asset depends on the purpose of the account and the 
needs and circumstances of account beneficiaries and remaindermen. An investment 
policy statement should be created that establishes the account’s investment objectives 
and strategies. 
TC4 
Assessments and Fees [Section 11-109-303, C.R.S.] 
(Repealed and recodified in 3 CCR 701-10 AR16) 
TC5 
Investment in Small Business Investment Companies [Section 11-109-902, C.R.S] [Expired 
5/15/07 per House Bill 07-1167] 
TC6 
Repealed and reserved for future use. 
TC7 
Financial Reporting [Section 11-109-402, C.R.S.] 
A. 
While it is the Colorado State Banking Board's (Banking Board) intention to require that generally 
accepted accounting principles be followed, certain statements filed by trust companies with 
various state and federal regulatory agencies are supervisory and regulatory documents, not 
primarily accounting documents. Because of the special supervisory, regulatory, and economic 
policy needs of trust company reports, the instructions do not always follow generally accepted 
accounting principles. In reporting transactions not covered in principle by regulatory instructions, 
trust companies must follow generally accepted accounting principles. However, in such 
circumstances, unless the trust company has already obtained a ruling from another regulatory 
agency pursuant to the policies expressed in Section 11-101-102, C.R.S., a specific ruling shall 
be sought promptly from the Banking Board. 
TC8 
Dividends [Section 11-109-501, C.R.S.] 
A. 
Purpose 
This Rule applies restrictions to the declaration and payment of dividends by a state chartered 
trust company. 
 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
2 
B. 
Definitions 
For the purposes of this Rule, the following definitions apply: 
1. 
Capital surplus means the total of surplus as reported in the trust company's Report of 
Condition and Income and surplus on perpetual preferred stock. 
2. 
Retained net income means the net income of a specified period less the total amount of 
all dividends declared in that period. 
3. 
Undivided profits means retained earnings as reported in the trust company’s Report of 
Condition and Income. 
C. 
Earnings Limitation on Payment of Dividends 
Subject to paragraph D(1) of this Rule, a trust company may declare and pay dividends of so 
much of the undivided profits as they judge to be expedient. However, unless the dividend is 
approved by the Banking Board, a trust company shall not declare a dividend if the total amount 
of all dividends, including the proposed dividend, declared by such trust company in any calendar 
year exceeds the total of the trust company's net income of that year to date, combined with its 
retained net income of the preceding two years. The trust company's net income during the 
current year and its retained net income from the prior two calendar years is reduced by any net 
losses incurred in the current or prior two years, and any required transfers to surplus or to a fund 
for the retirement of preferred stock. 
D. 
Capital Limitation on Payment of Dividends 
1. 
General limitation. A trust company may not declare a dividend in excess of undivided 
profits. 
2. 
Restrictions on undercapitalized institutions. Notwithstanding any other provision in this 
Rule, a trust company may not declare or pay any dividend if, after making the dividend, 
the trust company would be “undercapitalized” as defined in TC13.5(D) or as determined 
according to Code of Federal Regulations Title 12 – Banks and Banking Chapter III – 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Subchapter B – Regulations and Statements of 
General Policy Part 324 Capital Adequacy of FDIC-Supervised Institutions - Subpart H 
Prompt Corrective Action (“12 CFR 324 FDIC, Subpart H”). 
3. 
Incorporation by Reference 
Code of Federal Regulations Title 12 - Banks and Banking Chapter III - Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy 
Part 324 Capital Adequacy of FDIC-Supervised Institutions - Subpart H Prompt 
Corrective Action (“12 CFR 324 FDIC, Subpart H”) as effective on June 27, 2024, is 
hereby incorporated by reference. No later amendment or edition of 12 CFR 324 FDIC, 
Subpart H is incorporated into this Section TC8. All referenced laws and regulation shall 
be available for copying or public inspection during regular business hours from the 
Division of Banking, Department of Regulatory Agencies, 1560 Broadway, Suite 975, 
Denver, CO 80202. The Division of Banking will provide a certified copy of the material 
incorporated at cost or will provide the requester with information on how to obtain a 
certified copy. 12 CFR 324 FDIC, Subpart H is also available at: 
https://banking.colorado.gov/banking-home/rules-statutes.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
3 
E. 
Date of Declaration of Dividend 
The trust company shall use the date a dividend is declared for the purposes of determining 
compliance with this Rule. 
TC9 
Investment Limitations [Section 11-109-902(5), C.R.S.] 
A. 
A trust company may, for its own account, purchase Type I securities in an unlimited amount, 
subject to the exercise of prudent judgment. 
B. 
A trust company may, for its own account, purchase Type II, III, IV, and V securities, as described 
in Code of Federal Regulations Title 12 - Banks and Banking Chapter I - Comptroller of the 
Currency, Department of the Treasury Part 1 Investment Securities, subject to the following 
restrictions: 
1. 
The aggregate par value of Type II and III securities issued by any one obligor may be 
purchased up to 10 percent of the trust company’s total capital. In applying this limitation, 
the trust company shall take account of the Type II or III securities that the trust company 
is legally committed to purchase in addition to the trust company’s existing holdings. 
2. 
Obligations of issuers having a maturity date of less than five (5) years may be 
purchased not to exceed 10 percent of the total capital, provided that the purchase is 
based on adequate evidence of the maker's ability to perform. This limitation shall be 
separate from and in addition to the limitation contained in Paragraph (B)(1). 
3. 
The aggregate par value of Type V securities issued by any one issuer may be 
purchased up to 25 percent of the trust company’s total capital. In applying this limitation, 
the trust company shall take account of Type V securities that the trust company is legally 
committed to purchase in addition to the trust company’s existing holdings. 
4. 
In calculating the amount of its investment in Type III or Type V securities issued by any 
one obligor, the trust company shall aggregate: (a) obligations issued by obligors that are 
related directly or indirectly through common control; and (b) securities that are credit 
enhanced by the same entity. The aggregation requirement in this Paragraph applies 
separately to the Type III and Type V securities held by the trust company. 
5. 
Every trust company shall maintain in its files credit information adequate to demonstrate 
that it exercised prudence in its decision to purchase and to retain any security in its 
investment portfolio. The trust company shall determine there is adequate evidence that 
an obligor possesses resources sufficient to provide for all required payments on its 
obligations, or, in the case of securities deemed to be investment securities on the basis 
of reliable estimates of an obligor’s performance, that the trust company reasonably 
believes that the obligor will be able to satisfy the obligation. Failure to maintain such 
information could result in the determination that the security is not a permissible trust 
company investment.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
4 
6. 
Incorporation by Reference 
Code of Federal Regulations Title 12 - Banks and Banking Chapter I - Comptroller of the 
Currency, Department of the Treasury Part 1 Investment Securities (“12 CFR 1”) as 
effective on November 26, 2024, is hereby incorporated by reference. No later 
amendment or edition of 12 CFR 1 is incorporated into this Section TC9. All referenced 
laws and regulation shall be available for copying or public inspection during regular 
business hours from the Division of Banking, Department of Regulatory Agencies, 1560 
Broadway, Suite 975, Denver, CO 80202. The Division of Banking will provide a certified 
copy of the material incorporated at cost or will provide the requester with information on 
how to obtain a certified copy. 12 CFR 1 is also available at 
https://banking.colorado.gov/banking-home/rules-statutes. 
C. 
Nonconforming Investments 
1. 
A trust company’s investment in securities that no longer conform to Paragraph B but 
conformed when made will not be deemed in violation but instead will be treated as 
nonconforming if the reason why the investment no longer conforms is because: 
a. 
The trust company’s capital declines; 
b. 
Issuers, obligors, or credit-enhancements merge; 
c. 
Issuers become related directly or indirectly through common control; 
d. 
The investment securities rule changes; 
e. 
The security no longer qualifies as an investment security; or 
f. 
Other events identified by the Division occur. 
2. 
A trust company shall exercise reasonable efforts to bring an investment that is 
nonconforming as a result of events described in Paragraph 1 of this section into 
conformity with this part unless to do so would be inconsistent with safe and sound 
practices. Nothing in this rule requires a trust company to divest of the nonconforming 
investment. 
TC10 
Reports of New Executive Officers, Directors, and Persons in Control and Related Late 
Filing Penalty [Section 11-109-402(5) and (6), C.R.S.] 
A. 
Any person who becomes an executive officer, director, or person responsible, directly or 
indirectly, for the management, control, or operation of a trust company, must notify the Division 
of Banking in writing within ninety (90) days thereafter. 
The written notice must include a statement describing any civil or criminal offenses of which 
such person has been found guilty or liable by any federal or state court or federal or state 
regulatory agency. 
B. 
In addition, any person who becomes an executive officer, director, or person responsible, 
directly or indirectly, for the management, control, or operation of a trust company, must file a 
biographical report with the Division within ninety (90) days thereafter, if: 
1. 
The trust company has been chartered less than two (2) years;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
5 
2. 
Within the preceding two (2) years, the trust company has undergone a change in control 
that required a notice to be filed pursuant to Section 11-109-401(2), C.R.S.; 
3. 
Within the preceding two (2) years, the holding company became a registered holding 
company, unless the holding company is owned or controlled by a registered holding 
company, or the holding company was established in a reorganization in which 
substantially all of the shareholders of the holding company were shareholders of the 
trust company prior to the holding company's formation; or 
4. 
The trust company or holding company is not in compliance with all minimum capital 
requirements applicable to the institution as determined on the basis of the institution's 
most recent report of condition, examination, or is otherwise in a troubled condition as 
indicated by a composite rating of 3, 4, or 5 at the institution's most recent examination 
by a state or federal banking regulator. 
The biographical report to be filed with the Division of Banking may be either on the form 
provided by the Division of Banking or the form filed with the institution's federal regulator 
for reporting the change of executive officer, director, or person in control. 
C. 
For the purposes of this Rule, except as provided in Paragraph (D), the term “director” does not 
include an advisory director who: 
1. 
Is not elected by the shareholders of the trust company; 
2. 
Is not authorized to vote on any matters before the board of directors; and 
3. 
Provides solely general policy advice to the board of directors. 
D. 
The Banking Board or the Division of Banking may otherwise determine that additional reporting 
is required of any person who becomes an executive officer, director, or person in control. Written 
notice will be provided by the Division of Banking to such person of any additional requirements. 
E. 
The Banking Board may assess a $100.00 per day penalty for late filing of reports of new 
executive officers, directors, and persons in control that are required by Section 11-109-402(5) 
and (6), C.R.S., and this Rule. Said penalty may be waived by the Banking Board pursuant to 
statute. Filing of an incorrect report form is not grounds for the waiving of the penalty 
TC11 
Scope of Directors' Examinations [Section 11-109-402(2), C.R.S.] 
A. 
Definitions 
For the purposes of this Rule, the term “reviewer” shall mean such public accountant or other 
independent person(s) as determined by the Colorado State Banking Board (Banking Board).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
6 
B. 
Examination Scope 
For the purposes of Section 11-109-402(2), C.R.S., a trust company (institution), at a minimum, 
shall perform annually the procedures as set forth in Appendix A as the scope of a directors' 
examination. The recommended procedures are intended to address the high risk areas common 
to all financial institutions. However, each institution must review its own particular business and 
determine if additional procedures are required to cover other high risk areas. The reviewer shall 
be informed of, and permitted access to, all examination reports, administrative orders, and any 
additional communications between the institution and the Division of Banking (Division), 
including the Banking Board, as well as the appropriate federal regulatory agency. The reviewer 
shall obtain the institution management's written representation that he or she has been informed 
of, and granted access to, all such documents prior to completion of the field work. 
C. 
Extent of Testing 
Where the procedures set forth in Appendix A require testing or determinations to be made, 
sampling may be used. Both judgmental and statistical sampling may be acceptable methods of 
selecting samples to test. Sample sizes should be consistent with generally accepted auditing 
standards, or as agreed upon by the reviewer and the client institution. In any event, the sampling 
method and extent of testing, including the sample size(s) used, shall be disclosed in the 
directors' examination report. 
D. 
Reports to be Filed with the Division of Banking 
After the completion of the procedures, or agreed-upon procedures, set forth in Appendix A, the 
independent reviewer shall evaluate the results of his audit work and promptly prepare and 
submit a report addressed to the board of directors/managers (board) of the institution. The report 
shall detail the findings and suggestions resulting from performance of the auditing procedures. 
Independent reviewers shall include in the report, at a minimum: 
1. 
Financial statements (balance sheet and statement of earnings as of the examination 
date). 
2. 
The accounts or items on which the procedures were applied. 
3. 
The sampling methods used. 
4. 
The procedures and agreed-upon extent of testing performed. 
5. 
The accounting basis, either generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) or 
regulatory required accounting, on which the accounts or items being audited are 
reported. 
6. 
The reviewer's findings. 
7. 
The as of date that the procedures were performed. 
The reviewer shall sign and date the report. The report shall also disclose the reviewer's business 
address.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
7 
The institution must send a copy of the report, the engagement letter, and any management letter 
or similar letter of recommendation to the Division and, if applicable, to the appropriate federal 
regulators within thirty (30) days after its receipt, but no later than one hundred fifty (150) days 
after the date of examination. In addition, each institution shall promptly notify the Division when a 
reviewer is engaged to perform a directors' examination and when a change in its reviewer 
occurs. 
E. 
References 
GAAP are issued by the Financial Accounting Standard Board which is overseen by the Financial 
Accounting Foundation, an independent not-for-profit organization. 
F. 
Incorporation by Reference 
1. 
U.S. Code - Title 12 - Chapter 3-Federal Reserve System - Subchapter X-Powers and 
Duties of Federal Reserve Banks - 371c - Banking affiliates - (b) Definitions (“12 USC 
371c(b)”) as effective on June 27,2024, is hereby incorporated by reference. No later 
amendment or edition of 12 USC 371c(b) is incorporated into this Section TC11. All 
referenced laws and regulation shall be available for copying or public inspection during 
regular business hours from the Division of Banking, Department of Regulatory Agencies, 
1560 Broadway, Suite 975, Denver, CO 80202. The Division of Banking will provide a 
certified copy of the material incorporated at cost or will provide the requester with 
information on how to obtain a certified copy. 12 USC 371c(b) is also available at: 
https://banking.colorado.gov/banking-home/rules-statutes. 
2. 
Code of Federal Regulations Title 12 - Banks and Banking Chapter II - Federal Reserve 
System Subchapter A - Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System Part 215 
Loans to Executive Officers, Directors, and Principal Shareholders of Member Banks 
(Regulation O) - 2 Definitions (“Regulation O 12 CFR 215.2”) as effective on June 27, 
2024, is hereby incorporated by reference. No later amendment or edition of Regulation 
O 12 CFR 215.2 is incorporated into this Section TC11. All referenced laws and 
regulation shall be available for copying or public inspection during regular business 
hours from the Division of Banking, Department of Regulatory Agencies, 1560 Broadway, 
Suite 975, Denver, CO 80202. The Division of Banking will provide a certified copy of the 
material incorporated at cost or will provide the requester with information on how to 
obtain a certified copy. Regulation O 12 CFR 215.2 is also available at: 
https://banking.colorado.gov/banking-home/rules-statutes.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
8 
APPENDIX A - TC11 
For the purpose of Section 11-109-402(2), C.R.S., a trust company (institution), at a minimum, shall have 
the following procedures performed annually. 
A. 
Securities 
1. 
Review the investment policies and procedures established by the institution's board. 
Review the board, or investment committee, minutes for evidence that the policies and 
procedures are periodically reviewed and approved. The policies and procedures should 
include, but not be limited to: 
a. 
Investment objectives, including use of “available for sale,” “held for sale” and 
trading activities; 
b. 
Permissible types of investments; 
c. 
Diversification guidelines to prevent undue concentration; 
d. 
Maturity schedules; 
e. 
Limitation on quality ratings; 
f. 
Hedging activities and other uses of futures, forwards, options, and other 
financial instruments; 
g. 
Handling exceptions to standard policies; 
h. 
Valuation procedures and frequency; 
i. 
Limitations on the investment authority of officers; AND 
j. 
Frequency of periodic reports to the board on securities holdings. 
2. 
Test the investment procedures and ascertain whether information reported to the board, 
or investment committee, for securities transactions is in agreement with the supporting 
data by comparing the following information on such reports to the trade tickets for a 
sample of items, including futures, forwards, and options: 
a. 
Descriptions; 
b. 
Interest rate; 
c. 
Maturity; 
d. 
Par value, or number of shares; 
e. 
Cost; and 
f. 
Market value on date of transaction, if different than cost. 
3. 
Using the same sample items, analyze the securities register for accuracy and confirm 
the existence of the sample items by examining securities physically held in the institution 
and confirming the safekeeping of those securities held by others.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
9 
4. 
Balance investment subledger(s) or reconcile computer-generated trial balances with the 
general ledger control accounts for each type of security. 
5. 
Review policies and procedures for controls that are designed to ensure that 
unauthorized transactions do not occur. Ascertain through reading of policies, 
procedures, and board minutes whether investment officers and/or appropriate 
committee members have been properly authorized to purchase/sell investments and 
whether there are limitations or restrictions on delegated responsibilities. 
6. 
Obtain a schedule of the book, par, and market values of securities, as well as the rating 
classifications. Test the accuracy of the market values of a sample of securities and 
compare the ratings listed to see that they correspond with those of the rating agencies. 
Review the institution's documentation on any permanent declines in value that have 
occurred among the sample of securities to determine that any recorded declines in 
market value are appropriately computed. Examine the institution's computation of the 
allowance account for securities, if any, for proper presentation and adequacy. 
7. 
Test securities income and accrued interest by: 
a. 
Determining the institution's method of calculating and recording interest 
accruals; 
b. 
Obtaining trial balances of accrued interest; 
c. 
Testing the reconciliation of the trial balances to the general ledger; 
d. 
Determining that interest accruals are not made on defaulted issues; 
e. 
Selecting items from each type of investment and money market holding: 
(1) 
Determining the stated interest rate and most recent interest payment 
date of coupon instruments by reference to sources of such information 
that are independent of the institution; 
(2) 
Testing timely receipt of interest payments and correctness of entries to 
applicable general ledger accounts; 
(3) 
Calculating accrued interest and comparing it to the trial balance; and 
(4) 
Reviewing recorded book value for appropriate accretion of discount and 
amortization of premium; and 
f. 
Performing an analytical review of yields on each type of investment and money 
market holdings for reasonableness. 
8. 
Review investment accounts for volume of purchases, sales activity and length of time 
securities have been held. Inquire as to the institution's intent and ability to hold securities 
until maturity. If there is frequent trading in an investment account, such activity may be 
inconsistent with the notion that the institution has the intent and ability to hold securities 
to maturity. Test gains and losses on disposal of investment securities by sampling sales 
transactions and: 
a. 
Determining sales prices by examining invoices or brokers' advices;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
10 
b. 
Checking for the use of trade date accounting and the computation of book value 
on trade date; 
c. 
Determining that the general ledger has been properly relieved on the 
investment, accrued interest, premium, discount and other related accounts; 
d. 
Recomputing the gain or loss and compare to the amount recorded in the 
general ledger; and 
e. 
Determining that the sales were approved by the board or a designated 
committee or were in accordance with policies approved by the board. 
9. 
Determine that sufficient and adequate securities have been collateralized 
against uninsured deposits, if applicable. 
B. 
Allowance for Fee Receivables 
1. 
Review policies and procedures for ensuring the collectibility of fees due. 
2. 
Test charge-offs and recoveries for proper authorization and/or reporting by reference to 
the board minutes. 
3. 
Review the institution's computation of the amount needed in the allowance as of the end 
of the most recent quarter. Documentation should include consideration of the following 
matters: 
a. 
Aging of delinquent fees; 
b. 
Ability to offset fees to account assets; 
c. 
Valuation and marketability of assets in fee delinquent accounts; 
d. 
Trends in the level of delinquent fees as compared with previous loss and 
recovery experience; 
e. 
Monitoring controls; and 
f. 
Collection efforts, both internal and through outside sources. 
C. 
Insider Transactions 
NOTE: For purposes of this section of the procedures, insiders include all affiliates of the 
institution, including its parent holding company, and all subsidiaries of the institution, as those 
terms are defined in 12 USC 371c(b), as well as the institution's executive officers, directors, 
principal shareholders, and their related interests, as those terms are defined in Regulation O 12 
CFR 215.2. 
1. 
Review the institution's policies and procedures to ensure that extensions of credit to, 
and other transactions with, insiders are addressed. Ascertain that the policies include 
specific guidelines defining fair and reasonable transactions between the institution and 
insiders, and test insider transactions for compliance with the guidelines and statutory 
and regulatory requirements. Ascertain that the policies and procedures on extensions of 
credit comply with the requirements of Federal Reserve Regulation O.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
11 
2. 
Obtain an institution-prepared list of insiders, including any business relationships the 
institution may have other than as a nominal customer. Also obtain a list of extensions of 
credit to, and other transactions that the institution, its affiliates, and its subsidiaries have 
had with, insiders that are outstanding as of the audit date or that have occurred since 
the prior year's external auditing procedures were performed. Compare the lists to those 
prepared for the prior year's external auditing program to test for completeness. 
3. 
Review the institution's policies and procedures to ensure that expense accounts of 
individuals who are executive officers, directors, and principal shareholders are 
addressed and test a sample of the actual expense account records for compliance with 
the policies and procedures. 
D. 
Internal Controls - General Accounting and Administrative Controls 
1. 
Review the board minutes to verify that account reconciliation policies have been 
established and approved and are reviewed periodically by the board. Determine that 
management has implemented appropriate procedures to ensure the timely completion of 
reconciliations of accounting records and the timely resolution of reconciling items. 
2. 
Determine whether the institution's policies regarding segregation of duties and required 
vacations for employees, including those involved in the information technology function, 
have been approved by the board and verify that the policies and the implementing 
procedures established by management are periodically reviewed, are adequate, and are 
followed. 
3. 
Confirm a sample of deposits, as applicable, in each of the various types of deposit 
accounts maintained by the institution. Inquire about controls over dormant deposit 
accounts. 
4. 
Test to determine that reconciliations are prepared for all significant asset and liability 
accounts, such as “due from” accounts; demand deposits; NOW accounts; money market 
deposit accounts; other savings deposits; certificates of deposit; and other time deposits 
and their related accrued interest accounts, as applicable. Review reconciliations for: 
a. 
Timeliness and frequency; 
b. 
Accuracy and completeness; and 
c. 
Review by appropriate personnel with no conflicting duties. 
5. 
Compare a sample of balances per reconciliations to the general ledger and supporting 
trial balances. 
6. 
Examine detail and aging of a sample of reconciling items from the accounts whose 
reconciliations have been tested and reviewed and a sample of items in suspense, 
clearing, and work-in-process accounts by: 
a. 
Testing aging; 
b. 
Determining whether items are followed up on and appropriately resolved on a 
timely basis; and 
c. 
Discussing items remaining on reconciliations and in the suspense account with 
appropriate personnel to ascertain whether any should be written off.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
12 
Review a sample of charged-off reconciling and suspense items for proper authorization. 
7. 
Verify through inquiry and observation that the institution maintains adequate records of 
its off-balance sheet activities. Review the institution's procedures to determine whether 
probable or reasonably possible losses exist. 
E. 
Internal Controls - Information Technology (IT) Controls 
1. 
Read the board minutes to determine whether the board has reviewed and approved the 
institution's IT policies, including those regarding third-party servicers, if any, and the 
internal use of individual personal computers (PCs), other electronic devices, and 
personalized programs for official institution records, at least annually, confirm that 
management has established appropriate implementing procedures, and verify the 
institution's compliance with these policies and procedures. 
a. 
The policies and procedures for either internal processing or use of a third-party 
service provider should include: 
(1) 
A contingency plan for continuation of operations and recovery when 
power outages, natural disasters, or other threats could cause disruption 
and/or major damage to the institution's IT support, including 
compatibility of the servicer's plan with that of the institution; 
(2) 
Requirements for IT-related insurance coverage that include the 
following provisions: 
(a) 
Extended blanket bond fidelity coverage to employees of the 
institution or servicer; 
(b) 
Insurance on documents in transit, including cash letters; and 
(c) 
Verification of the insurance coverage of the institution or service 
provider and the courier service; 
(3) 
Review of exception reports and adjusting entries approved by 
supervisors and/or officers; 
(4) 
Controls for input preparation and control and output verification 
and distribution; 
(5) 
Assess the “Back-up” of all systems is adequate; 
(6) 
Security to ensure integrity of data and system modifications; 
and 
(7) 
Necessary detail to ensure an audit trail. 
b. 
When a third-party service provider is employed, the policies and procedures 
should address the following additional items: 
(1) 
The requirement for a written contract for each automated application 
detailing ownership and confidentiality of files and programs, fee 
structure, termination agreement, and liability for documents in transit; 
(2) 
Review of each contract by legal counsel; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
13 
(3) 
Review of each third party review of the service provider, if any. 
2. 
In the area of general IT controls, determine through inquiry and observation that policies 
and procedures have been established for: 
a. 
Management and user involvement and approval of new or modified application 
programs; 
b. 
Authorization, approval, and testing of system software modifications; 
c. 
The controls surrounding computer operations processing; 
d. 
Restricted access to computer operations facilities and resources including: 
(1) 
Off-premises backup of critical data files, application systems, and 
network schematic; Assess whether controls are adequate.; 
(2) 
physical and logical security of the data center, network, and the 
institution's PCs and other electronic devices; and 
(3) 
Use and periodic changing of passwords. 
3. 
With respect to IT applications controls, inquire about and observe: 
a. 
The controls over: 
(1) 
Input submitted for processing; 
(2) 
Processing transactions; 
(3) 
Output; 
(4) 
Applications updates for PCs and other electronic devices; and 
(5) 
Telecommunications and networks both between and within institution 
offices. 
b. 
The security over unissued or blank supplies of potentially negotiable items; and 
c. 
The control procedures on wire transfers including: 
(1) 
Authorizations and agreements with customers, including who may 
initiate transactions; 
(2) 
Limits on transactions; and 
(3) 
Call back procedures. 
F. 
Trust Function 
1. 
Supervisory Review 
a. 
Determine the significant functions of the department, including areas of 
responsibility within the department and the financial institution.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
14 
b. 
Review the institution's written policies to determine that sufficient guidelines are 
established to meet fiduciary responsibilities and to comply with applicable laws. 
Policies should include: 
(1) 
Account acceptance; 
(2) 
Closed account review; 
(3) 
Investments; 
(4) 
Account review; 
(5) 
Discretionary distributions; 
(6) 
Conflicts of interest; and 
(7) 
Other as needed for scope of fiduciary activities. 
c. 
Ascertain the qualifications of the staff and of the board giving consideration to 
the nature of the fiduciary responsibilities accepted. 
d. 
Determine if board policies are implemented and followed. 
2. 
Accounting and Physical Controls 
a. 
Verify account assets. Include a confirmation from holders of assets retained 
outside the department. 
b. 
Determine that the assets are adequately safeguarded, and held separately from 
other assets of the institution. 
c. 
Verify that a vault record of assets under joint custody is maintained. 
d. 
Verify prompt ledger control of assets, including worthless assets, received as 
original and subsequent deposits of assets, including stock splits and dividends. 
e. 
Verify that fiduciary cash accounts are regularly and appropriately reconciled to 
demand deposit or money market account statements. 
f. 
Verify that internal balancing control procedures are performed each time 
account ledgers are posted. 
g. 
Verify that suspense or operating accounts are reconciled at least monthly, 
contain only appropriate items, and are cleared in a timely manner. 
h. 
Reconcile or verify the proper reconcilement of each of the following to the 
department's general ledger at least quarterly: 
(1) 
Income cash; 
(2) 
Principal cash; 
(3) 
Invested income; 
(4) 
Invested principal;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
15 
(5) 
Each type of investment, such as stock, bonds, real estate loans and real 
estate; and 
(6) 
Investments by issuer. 
i. 
If applicable, verify reconciliations or reconcile outstanding bonds for bond 
trusteeships, or paying agent activities. 
j. 
Verify the accurate payment of dividends. 
3. 
Activity Control 
a. 
Verify fees paid to the trust company. 
b. 
Verify proceeds from sales of assets to brokers' invoices, sellers' receipts, or 
other evidence of sales price. 
c. 
Verify payment for purchases of assets to brokers' invoices, sellers' receipts, or 
other evidence of purchase price. 
d. 
Verify accuracy of amounts and receipt of income from investments. 
4. 
Compliance 
a. 
Verify that transactions between fiduciary accounts and directors, officers, or 
employees of the institution, its holding company or other related entities do not 
constitute self-dealing. In general, self-dealing is considered to exist when the 
fiduciary uses or obtains the property held in a fiduciary capacity for his or her 
own benefit. 
b. 
Review fiduciary account holdings of the following items in light of self-dealing 
issues: 
(1) 
Stock, obligations, repurchase agreements, or deposit accounts with the 
institution, its affiliates or other related organizations in which there exists 
such an interest that might affect the best judgment of the institution. 
(2) 
Obligations of directors, officers and employees of the institution, its 
holding company or affiliates or other entities with whom there exists a 
connection that might affect the exercise of the best judgment of the 
institution. 
c. 
Verify that all accounts for which the institution has investment responsibilities 
are reviewed by the board or a committee thereof. 
d. 
Verify that cash receipts are promptly invested or distributed. 
e. 
Verify and review the annual audit of each collective investment fund. 
5. 
Administrative Review 
a. 
Complete administrative reviews of all major account types, including but not 
limited to, personal trusts, estates, corporate trusts, collective investment funds, 
pension trusts and profit sharing trusts. An acceptable administrative review 
would perform the following practices:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
16 
(1) 
Determine that the original or authenticated copy of the governing 
instrument is on file; 
(2) 
Determine that synoptic and history records are current, reliable and 
comprehensive; 
(3) 
Determine that accounts are administered and invested in conformance 
with management policies, governing instruments, laws, regulations and 
sound fiduciary principles; 
(4) 
Determine that the minutes of the board and committee meetings 
document the review of trust company activities; significant practices for 
the board review include the acceptance of new accounts, the closing of 
accounts and the review of discretionary payments of principal or 
income; and 
(5) 
Test the accuracy of account statements submitted to beneficiaries. 
TC12 
 Qualifications for Independent Person(s) Assuming Responsibility for Due Care of 
Directors' Examinations [Section 11-109-402(2), C.R.S.] 
A. 
Qualifications 
The following persons may qualify to be responsible for conducting a directors' examination of a 
trust company: 
1. 
A Certified Public Accountant(s) who holds an active certificate under the laws of this 
state, or who may practice in this state under a reciprocal agreement between Colorado 
and the holder's state of certification. 
2. 
A qualified independent person(s) or firm whose credentials have been submitted to and 
approved by the Colorado State Banking Board to conduct such examinations. The 
Banking Board will take into consideration such things as past proven work of the person 
or firm, professional reputation, training and education, and capacity to perform the 
examination in a timely manner. 
3. 
The Banking Board reserves the right to revoke any previously approved qualification for 
due cause. 
B. 
Independence 
A person who conducts or reviews and/or approves a directors' examination of a trust company 
must be independent with respect to the trust company in fact and appearance. 
Independence will be considered impaired if, for example, during the period of the directors' 
examination, or at the time of the issuing of the report, the person: 
1. 
Was or is committed to acquire any direct, or material indirect, financial interest in the 
institution; 
2. 
Is or was a trustee of any trust, or executor or administrator of any estate, if such trust or 
estate was or is committed to acquire any direct or material indirect financial interest in 
the institution;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
17 
3. 
Has or had any joint, closely-held business investment with the institution or any officer, 
director, or principal stockholder thereof that is material in relation to the net worth of 
either the institution or the person; or 
4. 
Has or had any loan to or from the institution or any officer, director, or principal 
shareholder thereof other than loans of the following kinds made by a financial institution 
under normal lending procedures, terms, and requirements: 
a. 
Loans obtained by the person that are not material in relation to the net worth of 
the borrower; 
b. 
Home mortgages; and 
c. 
Other secured loans, except those secured solely by a guarantee of the person. 
Independence will also be considered to be impaired if, during the period covered by the financial 
statements, during the period of the directors' examinations, or at the time of the issuing of the 
report, the person: 
1. 
Was or is connected with the institution as a promoter, underwriter, voting trustee, 
director or officer, or in any capacity equivalent to that of a member of management or of 
an employee; 
2. 
Was or is a trustee for any pension or profit sharing trust of the institution; 
3. 
Received, or had a commitment to receive, other compensation from the institution or a 
third party for services or products of others to be procured by the institution; or 
4. 
Received, or had a commitment from the institution to receive, a contingent fee. For this 
purpose, a contingent fee means compensation for the performance of services, payment 
of which or the amount of which is contingent upon the findings or results of such 
services. 
TC13 
Minimum Capital Requirements for Depository Trust Companies [Section 11-109-304, 
C.R.S.] 
A. 
Purpose 
The Colorado State Banking Board (Banking Board) believes trust companies should maintain 
certain minimum capital levels pursuant to policies set forth in Section 11-101-102, C.R.S., and 
relevant federal laws and regulations. Accordingly, Banking Board Rule TC13-Minimum Capital 
Requirements for Depository Trust Companies sets forth certain minimum capital ratios and 
overall capital adequacy standards for depository trust companies. 
B. 
Definitions: For the purposes of this Rule: 
1. 
Leverage ratio means Tier 1 Capital to average total consolidated assets as reported on 
the institution’s Consolidated Report of Condition and Income (Call Report) minus 
amounts deducted from Tier 1 Capital as determined according to Code of Federal 
Regulations Title 12 – Banks and Banking Chapter III – Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation Subchapter B – Regulations and Statements of General Policy Part 324 
Capital Adequacy of FDIC-Supervised Institutions, which includes Subpart H Prompt 
Corrective Action (“12 CFR 324 FDIC”) Section 324.22(a), (c), and (d).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
18 
2. 
Tier 1 Capital means the sum of common equity tier 1 capital and additional tier 1 capital 
as determined according to 12 CFR 324 FDIC. 
3. 
Tier 2 Capital means the sum of Tier 2 capital elements and any related surplus, minus 
regulatory adjustments and deductions as determined according to 12 CFR 324 FDIC. 
4. 
Total Capital means the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 Capital as determined according to 12 
CFR 324 FDIC. 
5. 
Incorporation by Reference 
Code of Federal Regulations Title 12 - Banks and Banking Chapter III - Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy 
Part 324 Capital Adequacy of FDIC-Supervised Institutions, which includes Subpart H 
Prompt Corrective Action (“12 CFR 324 FDIC”) as effective on June 27, 2024, is hereby 
incorporated by reference. No later amendment or edition of 12 CFR 324 FDIC is 
incorporated into this Section TC13. All referenced laws and regulation shall be available 
for copying or public inspection during regular business hours from the Division of 
Banking, Department of Regulatory Agencies, 1560 Broadway, Suite 975, Denver, CO 
80202. The Division of Banking will provide a certified copy of the material incorporated 
at cost or will provide the requester with information on how to obtain a certified copy. 12 
CFR 324 FDIC is also available at: https://banking.colorado.gov/banking-home/rules-
statutes. 
C. 
Reservation of Authority 
1. 
Deductions from capital. Notwithstanding the definitions of Tier 1 Capital and Tier 2 
Capital, the Banking Board may find that a newly developed or modified capital 
instrument constitutes Tier 1 Capital or Tier 2 Capital, and may permit one or more 
institutions to include all or a portion of funds obtained through such capital instruments 
as Tier 1 or Tier 2 Capital, permanently or on a temporary basis, for the purpose of 
compliance with the Banking Board Rules. 
Similarly, the Banking Board may find that a particular intangible asset, deferred tax asset 
or credit-enhancing interest-only strip need not be deducted from Tier 1 or Tier 2 Capital. 
Conversely, the Banking Board may find that a particular intangible asset, deferred tax 
asset, credit-enhancing interest-only strip or other Tier 1 or Tier 2 Capital component, has 
characteristics or terms that diminish its contribution to an institution’s ability to absorb 
losses, and may require the deduction from Tier 1 or Tier 2 Capital of all of the 
component or of a greater portion of the component than is otherwise required. 
2. 
Risk weight categories. Notwithstanding the risk categories in 12 CFR 324 FDIC, the 
Banking Board will look to the substance of the transaction and may find that the 
assigned risk weight for any asset, or the credit equivalent amount, or credit conversion 
factor for any off-balance sheet item does not appropriately reflect the risks imposed on 
an institution and may require another risk weight, credit equivalent amount, or credit 
conversion factor that the Banking Board deems appropriate. Similarly, if no risk weight, 
credit equivalent amount or credit conversion factor is specifically assigned, the Banking 
Board may assign any risk weight, credit equivalent amount, or credit conversion factor 
that the Banking Board deems appropriate. In making its determination, the Banking 
Board considers risks associated with the asset or off-balance sheet item as well as other 
relevant factors.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
19 
D. 
Initial Capital 
No depository trust company shall be granted a charter unless it has paid-in capital stock of at 
least $1,500,000, or such greater amount as the Banking Board may reasonably require. New 
trust companies will be required to maintain capital in an amount necessary to satisfy minimum 
capital ratios, but not less than $1,000,000. 
E. 
Minimum Capital Ratios For Depository Trust Companies 
Depository trust companies must maintain minimum capital ratios and calculate its minimum 
capital requirements in accordance with 12 CFR 324 FDIC. 
F. 
Establishment of Minimum Capital Ratios for an Individual Institution 
1. 
Applicability 
The Banking Board may require higher minimum capital ratios for an individual institution 
in view of its circumstances. For example, higher capital ratios may be appropriate for: 
a. 
A newly chartered institution; 
b. 
An institution receiving special supervisory attention; 
c. 
An institution that has, or is expected to have, losses resulting in capital 
inadequacy; 
d. 
An institution with significant exposure due to risks from concentrations of credit, 
certain risks arising from nontraditional activities, or management's overall 
inability to monitor and control financial and operating risks presented by 
concentrations of credit and nontraditional activities; 
e. 
An institution with significant exposure to declines in the economic value of its 
capital due to changes in interest rates; 
f. 
An institution with significant exposure due to fiduciary or operational risk; 
g. 
An institution exposed to a high degree of asset depreciation, or a low level of 
liquid assets in relation to short term liabilities; 
h. 
An institution exposed to a high volume of, or particularly severe, problem assets; 
i. 
An institution that is growing rapidly, either internally or through acquisition; or 
j. 
An institution that may be adversely affected by the activities or condition of its 
parent company, affiliate(s), or other persons or institutions including chain 
banking organizations, with which it has significant business relationships. 
2. 
Standards for determination of appropriate individual minimum capital ratios. The 
appropriate minimum capital ratios for an individual institution cannot be determined 
solely through the application of a rigid mathematical formula or wholly objective criteria. 
The decision is necessarily based in part on subjective judgment grounded in Banking 
Board and Division of Banking expertise. The factors to be considered in the 
determination will vary in each case and may include, for example:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
20 
a. 
The conditions or circumstances leading to the Banking Board's determination 
that higher capital ratios are appropriate or necessary for the institution; 
b. 
The exigency of those circumstances or potential problems; 
c. 
The overall condition, management strength, and future prospects of the 
institution and, if applicable, its parent company and/or affiliate(s); 
d. 
The institution's liquidity, capital, risk asset and other ratios compared to the 
ratios of its peer group; and 
e. 
The views of the institution's directors and senior management. 
G. 
Unsafe and unsound practice. Any institution that has less than its minimum leverage capital 
requirement is deemed to be engaged in unsafe and unsound practice. Except that such an 
institution that has entered into, and is in compliance with, a written agreement with the Banking 
Board, or has submitted to the Banking Board; and is in compliance with, a plan approved by the 
Banking Board to increase its Tier 1 leverage capital ratio to such a level as the Banking Board 
deems appropriate and to take such other action as may be necessary for the institution to be 
operated so as not to be engaged in such unsafe or unsound practice will not be deemed to be 
engaged in unsafe or unsound practice on account of its capital ratios. An institution must file a 
written capital restoration plan with the Banking Board within forty-five (45) days of the date that 
the institution receives notice or is deemed to have notice that the institution is undercapitalized, 
unless the Banking Board notifies the institution in writing that the plan is to be filed within a 
different period. The Banking Board is not precluded from taking any enforcement action against 
an institution with capital above the minimum requirement if the specific circumstances deem 
such action to be appropriate. 
H. 
Statute References to Capital 
1. 
As referenced in the statutes, the following definitions will apply: 
a. 
Section 11-109-306(1)(d), C.R.S., shall refer to the leverage ratio and Tier 1, Tier 
2, and Total Capital. 
b. 
Section 11-109-902(2), (3), and (6) C.R.S., shall refer to Total Capital. 
c. 
Section 11-109-902(7), C.R.S., shall refer to Total Capital. 
d. 
Section 11-109-702(1), C.R.S., shall refer to the leverage ratio. 
TC13.5 Minimum Capital for Non-Depository Trust Companies [Section 11-109-304, C.R.S.] 
A. 
Purpose 
The Colorado State Banking Board (Banking Board) believes that trust companies should 
maintain certain minimum capital levels pursuant to policies set forth in Section 11-101-102, 
C.R.S., and relevant federal laws and regulations. Accordingly, Banking Board Rule TC13.5-
Minimum Capital for Non Depository Trust Companies sets forth certain minimum capital 
requirements for non-depository trust companies.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
21 
B. 
Definitions: For the purpose of this Rule: 
1. 
“Fiduciary Assets” means those assets held for benefit of, or in trust for others. The Trust 
Company may have investment discretion, or the investment authority may remain with 
the account holder or external manager. 
2. 
Total Capital means the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 Capital as determined in accordance 
with 12 CFR 324 FDIC. 
3. 
Incorporation by Reference 
Code of Federal Regulations Title 12 - Banks and Banking Chapter III - Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of General Policy 
Part 324 Capital Adequacy of FDIC-Supervised Institutions, Subpart A General 
Provisions - 324.2 Definitions and Subpart C - Definition of Capital 324.20 Capital 
Components and Eligibility Criteria for Regulatory Capital Requirements (“12 CFR 324 
FDIC”) as effective on June 27, 2024, is hereby incorporated by reference. No later 
amendment or edition of 12 CFR 324 FDIC is incorporated into this Section TC13.5. All 
referenced laws and regulation shall be available for copying or public inspection during 
regular business hours from the Division of Banking, Department of Regulatory Agencies, 
1560 Broadway, Suite 975, Denver, CO 80202. The Division of Banking will provide a 
certified copy of the material incorporated at cost or will provide the requester with 
information on how to obtain a certified copy. 12 CFR 324 FDIC is also available at: 
https://banking.colorado.gov/banking-home/rules-statutes 
C. 
Initial Capital 
No non-depository trust company shall be granted a charter unless it has paid-in capital of at 
least $1,500,000, or such greater amount as the Banking Board may reasonably require. 
D. 
Minimum Capital for Non-Depository Trust Companies 
Non-depository trust companies must maintain total capital of not less than the greater of: (1) 
$1,000,000, or (2) one tenth of one percent (.001) of fiduciary assets, such amount not to exceed 
$5,000,000. 
E. 
Establishment of Minimum Capital for an Individual Institution 
1. 
Applicability 
The Banking Board may require higher minimum capital levels for an individual institution 
in view of its circumstances. For example, higher capital levels may be appropriate for: 
a. 
A newly chartered institution; 
b. 
An institution receiving special supervisory attention; 
c. 
An institution that has, or is expected to have, losses resulting in capital 
inadequacy; 
d. 
An institution with significant exposure due to risks from concentrations of credit, 
certain risks arising from nontraditional activities, or management’s overall 
inability to monitor and control financial and operating risks presented by 
concentrations of credit and nontraditional activities;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
22 
e. 
An institution with significant exposure to declines in the economic value of its 
capital due to changes in interest rates; 
f. 
An institution with significant exposure due to fiduciary or operational risk; 
g. 
An institution exposed to a high degree of asset depreciation or a low level of 
liquid assets in relation to short term liabilities; 
h. 
An institution exposed to a high volume of, or particularly severe, problem assets; 
i. 
An institution that is growing rapidly, either internally or through acquisition; or 
j. 
An institution that may be adversely affected by the activities or condition of its 
parent company, affiliate(s), or other persons or institutions including chain 
banking organizations, with which it has significant business relationships. 
2. 
Standards for Determination of Appropriate Individual Minimum Capital. The appropriate 
minimum capital ratios for an individual institution cannot be determined solely through 
the application of a rigid mathematical formula or wholly objective criteria. The decision is 
necessarily based in part on subjective judgment grounded in Banking Board and 
Division of Banking expertise. The factors to be considered in the determination will vary 
in each case and may include, for example: 
a. 
The conditions or circumstances leading to the Banking Board’s determination 
that higher capital levels are appropriate or necessary for the institution; 
b. 
The exigency of those circumstances or potential problems; 
c. 
The overall condition, management strength, and future prospects of the 
institution and, if applicable, its parent company and/or affiliate(s); 
d. 
The institution’s liquidity, capital, risk asset and other ratios compared to the 
ratios of its peer group; and 
e. 
The views of the institution’s directors and senior management. 
F. 
Unsafe and unsound practice. Any institution that has less than its minimum capital requirement 
is deemed to be engaged in unsafe and unsound practice. Except that such an institution that has 
entered into, and is in compliance with, a written agreement with the Banking Board; or has 
submitted to the Banking Board, and is in compliance with, a plan approved by the Banking Board 
to increase its minimum capital to such a level as the Banking Board deems appropriate and to 
take such other action as may be necessary for the institution to be operated so as not to be 
engaged in such unsafe or unsound practice will not be deemed to be engaged in unsafe or 
unsound practice on account of its capital. An institution must file a written capital restoration plan 
with the Banking Board within forty-five (45) days of the date that the institution receives notice or 
is deemed to have notice that the institution is undercapitalized, unless the Banking Board notifies 
the institution in writing that the plan is to be filed within a different period. The Banking Board is 
not precluded from taking any enforcement action against an institution with capital above the 
minimum requirement if the specific circumstances deem such action to be appropriate. 
In addition, upon receiving notice of operating below its minimum capital requirement, the 
institution may be prohibited from doing any of the following without the State Bank 
Commissioner’s prior written approval: 
1. 
Making any capital distribution;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
23 
2. 
Entering into any material transaction other than in the usual course of business, 
including any expansion, acquisition, sale of assets or other similar action; 
3. 
Paying excessive compensation or bonuses. 
G. 
Compliance Date. Non-depository trust companies shall meet the minimum capital requirements 
of this rule no later than 36 months from Rule implementation. 
H. 
Statute References to Capital 
1. 
As referenced in the Colorado Revised Statutes, the following definitions will apply: 
a. 
Section 11-109-306(1)(d), C.R.S., shall refer to Total Capital; 
b. 
Section 11-109-902(2), (3), (6), and (7), C.R.S., shall refer to Total Capital; 
c. 
Section 11-109-104(2), C.R.S., shall refer to Total Capital; and 
d. 
Section 11-109-702(1), C.R.S., shall refer to Total Capital. 
TC14 
Repealed and reserved for future use. 
TC15 
Suspicious Activity Reports [Section 11-109-103, C.R.S.] [Repealed eff. 04/30/2016] 
TC16 
Insurance [Section 11-109-104(1)(f), C.R.S.] 
A. 
A trust company must, at all times, maintain a fidelity bond appropriate to the size and scope of 
the company's business, but in no event in an amount less than $2,000,000. In addition, a trust 
company must, at all times, maintain a fiduciary errors and omissions insurance policy 
appropriate to the size and scope of the company's business, but in no event in an amount less 
than $1,000,000. In determining the amount of the fidelity bond and errors and omissions 
insurance, the trust company's board of directors shall conduct a risk analysis and give due and 
careful consideration to known elements and factors constituting risk and hazards for the 
company. 
B. 
Any fidelity bond or errors and omissions insurance secured by a trust company shall provide that 
the corporate insurance or bonding company providing the bond(s), in the event of cancellation or 
nonrenewal of such bond(s), will give at least ninety (90) days’ notice to the trust company and to 
the State Bank Commissioner. In addition, the corporate insurance or bonding company must be 
authorized to do business in this state. 
C. 
Compliance Date. Trust companies shall meet the minimum insurance requirements of this rule 
no later than one year from rule implementation. 
TC17 
Deposit of Securities [Section 11-109-104(1)(a), C.R.S.] 
A. 
Purpose. The purpose of this Rule is to protect the Division of Banking against any expense it 
may incur in liquidating a non-depository trust company when the assets of such trust company 
available to the Division of Banking for this purpose are insufficient. 
B. 
Definitions: For the purpose of this Rule: 
1. 
“Non-depository trust company” shall mean a Colorado trust company that is not 
authorized to accept or hold savings deposits, time deposits or certificates of deposit 
pursuant to Section 11-109- 201(1)(d), C.R.S., of the Colorado Banking Code.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
24 
2. 
“Eligible Securities” shall mean any U.S. Government or U.S. Government agency 
security that is unconditionally guaranteed by the U.S. Government. This includes a 
deposit that is insured or otherwise unconditionally guaranteed by the FDIC. 
3. 
“Custodian” shall mean any commercial bank, trust company, depository trust company, 
or other entity approved by the Division of Banking, other than the trust company, for 
which the eligible securities are being held, approved by the State Bank Commissioner to 
hold in custody eligible securities. 
C. 
Deposit of Eligible Securities 
1. 
A non-depository trust company shall deposit with one or more custodians eligible 
securities having a market value of not less than $250,000. Eligible securities, even if 
commingled with other assets of the trust company, shall be deemed by operation of law 
to be held in trust for the benefit of the Division of Banking in the event of the involuntary 
liquidation of the trust company. Upon deposit, the trust company shall notify the Division 
of Banking in writing of the name, address, and telephone number of each custodian and 
the identity and value of each of the eligible securities deposited with the custodian(s). 
2. 
The Custodial Agreement between a non-depository trust company and a custodian 
holding the eligible securities shall include the following: 
“Upon receiving an Order issued by the Colorado State Banking Board that it is taking 
possession of and seizing the eligible securities hereunder, the custodian shall 
immediately surrender title and possession of such eligible securities to the State Bank 
Commissioner. The custodian(s) shall not be liable for any such relinquishment of the 
eligible securities undertaken in good faith and upon notice that appears valid on its 
face.” 
3. 
A non-depository trust company shall include with each quarterly Consolidated Report of 
Condition and Income filed with the Division of Banking a list of the eligible securities on 
deposit with its custodian(s), together with the market value of the eligible securities as of 
the end of such quarter. 
4. 
A non-depository trust company may, from time to time, substitute other eligible securities 
for eligible securities on deposit with its custodian(s) provided that: 
a. 
The market value of the substitute eligible securities will, when added to the 
value of the remaining eligible securities, equal or exceed the amount of the 
required deposit; 
b. 
The Division of Banking is given not less than seven (7) days prior written notice 
identifying the eligible securities and the market value of the eligible securities to 
be withdrawn from the custodian(s), and listing the eligible securities and the 
market value of the eligible securities to be substituted therefore; and 
c. 
A copy of the notice sent to the Division of Banking is sent to the custodian(s). 
D. 
Priority of Division of Banking. 
In the event of the involuntary liquidation of a non-depository trust company, as provided in 
Sections 11-109-702 and 11-109-704, C.R.S., the custodian(s) shall immediately surrender the 
eligible securities to the Banking Board; and the Division of Banking shall have a first and prior 
claim against the eligible securities to satisfy the obligations incurred by the Division of Banking in 
carrying out its duties and responsibilities under Sections 11-109-702 and 11-109-704, C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
25 
TC18 
Investments in Loans [Section 11-109-902(1)(a), C.R.S.] 
A. 
Purpose. 
The purpose of this Rule is to permit Colorado trust companies that are insured by the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) to diversify their investment portfolios by purchasing 
existing commercial loans or participations in existing commercial loans. It does not authorize 
Colorado trust companies to originate or make commercial loans, consumer loans, mortgage 
loans, or any other type of loan or to have a direct borrower-lender relationship with any person or 
business customer except as authorized in Section 11-109-907(2), C.R.S.. 
B. 
Definitions 
1. 
An “existing commercial loan” means a direct or indirect loan or extension of credit that 
was made or initiated by a lender or financial institution, other than a Colorado trust 
company, to a business customer on the basis of any obligation of that customer to repay 
the funds, or repayable from specific property pledged by or on behalf of the business 
customer. 
2. 
A “commercial loan” means a direct or indirect loan from a lender or financial institution to 
a business customer for the purpose of providing funds needed by that customer's 
business. The term “commercial loan” does not include bankers' acceptances, loans 
secured by bills of lading or warehouse receipts covering readily marketable securities, or 
loans to depository institutions, including but not limited to commercial banks, savings 
associations, savings banks, credit unions, or trust companies. 
3. 
“Business customer” means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, 
business trust, limited liability company, not-for-profit corporation, or similar entity or 
organization. 
C. 
Purchase of Existing Commercial Loans. 
A trust company may invest in existing commercial loans to the same extent that it could acquire 
or invest in such loans if it were operating as a national bank, subject to the following limitations 
and conditions: 
1. 
The trust company's capital ratios fall within the adequately capitalized category with a 
total risk-based capital ratio of 8 percent or greater, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6 
percent or greater, a common equity tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5 percent or greater, and a 
leverage ratio of 4 percent or greater. The capital ratios are defined in Code of Federal 
Regulation Title 12 – Banks and Banking Chapter III – FDIC Subchapter B – Regulations 
and Statements of General Policy Part 324 Capital Adequacy of FDIC Supervised 
Institutions, which includes Subpart H Prompt Corrective Action.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
26 
a. 
Incorporation by Reference 
Code of Federal Regulations Title 12 - Banks and Banking Chapter III - Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation Subchapter B - Regulations and Statements of 
General Policy Part 324 Capital Adequacy of FDIC-Supervised Institutions, which 
includes Subpart H Prompt Corrective Action (“12 CFR 324 FDIC”) as effective 
on June 27, 2024, is hereby incorporated by reference. No later amendment or 
edition of 12 CFR 324 FDIC is incorporated into this Section TC18. All referenced 
laws and regulation shall be available for copying or public inspection during 
regular business hours from the Division of Banking, Department of Regulatory 
Agencies, 1560 Broadway, Suite 975, Denver, CO 80202. The Division of 
Banking will provide a certified copy of the material incorporated at cost or will 
provide the requester with information on how to obtain a certified copy. 12 CFR 
324 FDIC is also available at: https://banking.colorado.gov/banking-home/rules-
statutes. 
2. 
The aggregate of existing commercial loans shall not exceed 50 percent of the trust 
company’s assets. 
3. 
Except where an existing loan is in default, an existing commercial loan shall be 
maintained and serviced by the originator of the loan or someone acting on behalf of the 
originator and not by the trust company. 
4. 
Existing commercial loans do not exceed the lending limits contained in this Rule. 
5. 
For all investments in existing commercial loans, a reserve for loan losses shall be 
established in accordance with the requirements applicable to state chartered 
commercial banks. 
6. 
Before investing in existing commercial loans, a trust company shall amend its 
investment policy to include the guidelines and procedures to be utilized by the trust 
company in acquiring and monitoring such credits. 
7. 
Before investing in existing commercial loans, a trust company shall have an officer 
qualified by character and experience consistent with the responsibilities and duties 
relating to investments in commercial loans. 
8. 
A written lending policy, approved by the directors of the trust company, shall provide a 
foundation for sound portfolio management. 
9. 
Investing in existing commercial loans shall be supervised by the board of directors of the 
trust company or a committee thereof. 
10. 
The purchase of existing commercial loans from an affiliate shall be subject to the 
provisions of Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act. 
D. 
Participations. 
A trust company may purchase a participation in a loan that qualifies as an existing commercial 
loan provided that such participation comes within the limitations and conditions set forth in the 
preceding Paragraph.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
27 
E. 
Lending Limits. 
An existing commercial loan representing obligations of the same obligor or business customer 
shall not exceed 15 percent of the trust company's total capital. 
1. 
Combining Existing Commercial Loans to Separate Borrowers 
a. 
General Rule 
Existing commercial loans to one person will be attributed to other persons, for 
the purpose of this Rule, when: (1) the proceeds of such loans or extensions of 
credit are to be used for the direct benefit of the other person or persons to the 
extent of the proceeds so used; or (2) a common enterprise is deemed to exist 
between the persons. 
b. 
Common Enterprise 
(1) 
Whether two or more persons are engaged in a common enterprise will 
depend upon a realistic evaluation of the facts and circumstances of the 
particular transaction. 
(2) 
A common enterprise will be deemed to exist and such loans or 
extensions of credit must be combined. 
(a) 
When the expected source of repayment for each existing 
commercial loan is the same for each person and neither person 
has another source of income from which the loan (together with 
the person’s other obligations) may be fully repaid. 
(b) 
Where existing commercial loans are made to persons who are 
related through common control, including where one person is 
directly or indirectly controlled by another person; and substantial 
financial interdependence exists between or among them. 
Substantial financial interdependence is deemed to exist when 
50 percent or more of one person's gross receipts or gross 
expenditures, on an annual basis, are derived from transactions 
with the other person. Gross receipts and expenditures include 
gross revenues/expenses, intercompany loans, dividends, 
capital contributions, and similar receipts or payments. 
(c) 
When separate persons borrow from the lender for the purpose 
of acquiring a business enterprise of which those persons will 
own more than 50 percent of the voting securities or voting 
interests 
(3) 
For the purpose of this Rule, control shall be presumed to exist when a 
person directly or indirectly, or acting through or together with one or 
more persons: 
(a) 
Owns, controls, or has the power to vote 25 percent or more of 
any class of voting securities of another person; or 
(b) 
Controls, in any manner, the election of a majority of the 
directors, trustees, or other persons exercising similar functions 
of another person; or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
28 
(c) 
Has the power to exercise a controlling influence over the 
management or policies of another person. 
c. 
Loans to Corporations 
(1) 
For the purpose of this Rule, a corporation is a subsidiary of any person 
that owns or beneficially owns directly or indirectly more than 50 percent 
of the voting securities or voting interests of the corporation. Thus, if 
Corporation A owns more than 50 percent of the voting securities of 
Corporation X which, in turn, owns more than 50 percent of the voting 
securities of Corporation Y, Corporation Y would be considered a 
subsidiary of both Corporation A and of Corporation X. For the purpose 
of this Rule, corporation includes a limited liability company organized 
under the laws of certain states. 
(2) 
Existing commercial loans to a person and its subsidiary or to 
subsidiaries of one person need not be combined where the trust 
company has determined that the person and subsidiaries involved are 
not engaged in a common enterprise as that term is defined in this Rule. 
(3) 
Notwithstanding Paragraph (E)(1)(c)(2) of this Rule, existing commercial 
loans to a corporate group may not exceed 50 percent of the trust 
company's total capital. This aggregate limitation applies only to existing 
commercial loans made pursuant to Paragraphs (E)(1)(b) and (c) of this 
Rule. A corporate group includes a person and all of its subsidiaries. 
d. 
Loans to Partnerships, Joint Ventures, and Associations 
(1) 
Existing commercial loans to a partnership, joint venture, or association 
shall, for the purpose of this Rule, be considered loans or extensions of 
credit to each member of such partnership, joint venture, or association. 
(2) 
Existing commercial loans to members of a partnership, joint venture, or 
association shall, for the purpose of this rule, be attributed to the 
partnership, joint venture, or association where one or more of the tests 
set forth in Paragraph (E)(1)(a) of this Rule is satisfied with respect to 
one or more such members. However, loans to members of a 
partnership, joint venture, or association will not be attributed to other 
members of the partnership, joint venture, or association under this 
section of this Rule unless one or more of the tests set forth in Paragraph 
(E)(1)(a) of this Rule is satisfied with respect to such other members. 
The tests set forth in Paragraph (E)(1)(a) of this Rule shall be deemed to 
be met when existing commercial loans are made to members of a 
partnership, joint venture, or association for the purpose of purchasing 
an interest in such partnership, joint venture, or association. 
(3) 
The Rule set forth in Paragraph (E)(1)(d)(1) of this Rule is not applicable 
to limited partners in limited partnerships or to members of joint ventures 
or associations if such partners or members, by terms of the partnership 
or membership agreement, are not held generally liable for the debts or 
actions of the partnership, joint venture, or association. However, the 
Rules set forth in Paragraph (E)(1) of this Rule are applicable to such 
partners or members.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
29 
2. 
Exceptions to the Lending Limits 
a. 
Discount of Commercial Business Paper 
(1) 
Existing commercial loans arising from the discount of commercial or 
business paper evidencing an obligation to the person negotiating it with 
recourse shall not be subject to any limitation based on capital. 
(2) 
This exception applies to negotiable commercial or business paper given 
in payment of the purchase price of commodities purchased for resale, 
fabrication of a product, or any other business purpose that may 
reasonably be expected to provide funds for payment of the paper. 
Existing commercial loans arising from the discount of paper of the kind 
described in this Paragraph must bear the full recourse endorsement of 
the owner of the paper, except that paper discounted in connection with 
export transactions, that is transferred without recourse, or with limited 
recourse, must be supported by an assignment of appropriate insurance 
covering the political, credit, and transfer risks applicable to the paper. 
Insurance provided by the Export-Import Bank or the Foreign Credit 
Insurance Association is considered appropriate for this purpose. 
Existing commercial loans based on this exception are not subject to any 
limitation. 
(3) 
Since the reason for the unlimited credit under this exception is that the 
paper arises from the sale of a commodity that may reasonably be 
expected to provide funds for payment of the paper, failure to pay either 
principal or interest when due removes the reason for unlimited credit. 
Therefore, although the line of credit to the maker or endorser should not 
be classified as excessive by reason of such default, the paper on which 
the default has occurred must thereafter be taken into consideration in 
determining whether additional existing commercial loans may be 
acquired within the limits of this Rule. The same principles of 
disqualification from the exception applies to any renewal or extension of 
either the entire loan or an installment thereof. 
b. 
Loans Secured by U.S. Obligations 
(1) 
Existing commercial loans secured by bonds, notes, certificates of 
indebtedness, or Treasury bills of the United States or by similar 
obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United 
States shall not be subject to any limitation based on capital. 
(2) 
This exception applies only to the extent that existing commercial loans 
are fully secured by the current market value of obligations of the United 
States or guaranteed by the United States. 
(3) 
If the market value of the collateral declines to the extent that the existing 
commercial loan is no longer in conformance with this exception and 
exceeds the general 15 percent limitation, the trust company must 
ensure that the existing commercial loan is brought into conformance by 
the lender within five (5) business days, except where judicial 
proceedings, regulatory actions, or other extraordinary occurrences 
prevent the lender from taking such action. 
c. 
Loans to or Guaranteed by a Federal Agency

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
30 
(1) 
Existing commercial loans to or secured by unconditional takeout 
commitments or guarantees of any department, agency, bureau, board, 
commission, or establishment of the United States or any corporation 
wholly owned directly or indirectly by the United States shall not be 
subject to any limitation based on capital. 
(2) 
This exception may apply to only that portion of the existing commercial 
loan that is covered by a federal guarantee or commitment. 
(3) 
For purposes of this exception, the commitment or guarantee must be 
payable in cash or its equivalent within sixty (60) days after demand for 
payment is made. 
(4) 
A guarantee or commitment is unconditional if the protection afforded the 
lender is not substantially diminished or impaired if loss should result 
from factors beyond the lender's control. Protection against loss is not 
materially diminished or impaired by procedural requirements, such as 
an agreement to pay on the obligation only in the event of default, 
including default over a specific period of time, a requirement that 
notification of default be given within a specific period after its 
occurrence, or a requirement of good faith on the part of the lender. 
d. 
Loans Secured by Segregated Deposit Accounts 
(1) 
Existing commercial loans secured by a segregated deposit account by 
the lender shall not be subject to any limitation based on capital. 
(2) 
The trust company must ensure that a security interest has been 
perfected by the lender in the deposit, including the assignment of a 
specifically identified deposit and any other actions required by state law. 
(3) 
Deposit accounts that may qualify for this exception include deposits in 
any form generally recognized as deposits. In the case of a deposit 
eligible for withdrawal prior to the maturity of the secured loan, the trust 
company must ensure that the lender has established internal 
procedures that will prevent the release of the security. 
(4) 
A deposit that is denominated and payable in a currency other than that 
of the existing commercial loan that it secures may be eligible for this 
exception if it is freely convertible to U.S. dollars. The trust company 
must ensure that the lender has established procedures to periodically 
revalue foreign currency deposits to ensure that the existing commercial 
loan remains fully secured at all times. This exception applies to only that 
portion of the loan or extension of credit that is covered by the U.S. dollar 
value of the deposit. If the U.S. dollar value of the deposit falls to the 
extent that the existing commercial loan is in nonconformance with this 
exception and exceeds the general 15 percent limitation, the trust 
company must ensure that the loan is brought into conformance by the 
lender within five (5) business days, except where judicial proceedings, 
regulatory actions, or other extraordinary occurrences prevent the lender 
from taking such action. This exception is not authority for lenders to take 
deposits denominated in foreign currencies.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
31 
3. 
Loans Charged Off in Whole or in Part 
The lending limits apply to all existing commercial loans purchased by the trust company, 
including such loans that have been charged off on the books of the trust company in 
whole or in part. Existing commercial loans that have become unenforceable by reason of 
discharge in bankruptcy or are no longer legally enforceable for other reasons, are not 
existing commercial loans for purposes of this Rule. 
4. 
Approval by Banking Board 
Upon application by a trust company to the Banking Board, the Banking Board may allow 
a trust company to exceed the “lending limits” to purchase a specific existing commercial 
loan if the trust company proves that such loan will not adversely impact the safe and 
sound operations of the trust company and the protection of customers of the trust 
company. In making its decision, the Banking Board shall consider the quality of the 
existing commercial loans. 
The Banking Board shall also have the authority to determine when an existing 
commercial loan putatively made to a person shall, for the purpose of this Paragraph, be 
attributed to another person. 
TC19 
Investment in an Operating Subsidiary [Section 11-109-902(5), C.R.S.] 
A. 
General Limitations 
A trust company may invest in an operating subsidiary which includes a corporation, limited 
liability company (LLC), limited partnership, or similar entity that engages in activities in which the 
parent trust company may engage, subject to the same limitations the parent trust company 
would be subject to if it were engaged in the activity, provided that: 
1. 
the parent trust company owns and controls more than 50 percent of the voting (or similar 
type of controlling) interest of the operating subsidiary, or the parent trust company 
otherwise controls the operating subsidiary and no other party controls a percentage of 
the voting (or similar type of controlling) interest of the operating subsidiary greater than 
the trust company’s interest; 
2. 
the trust company has the ability to control the management and operations of the 
subsidiary, and no other person or entity has the ability to exercise effective control or 
influence over the management or operations of the subsidiary to an extent equal to or 
greater than that of the trust company or an operating subsidiary thereof; 
a. 
The ability to control the management and operations means: 
(1) 
In the case of a subsidiary that is a corporation, the trust company or an 
operating subsidiary thereof holds voting interests sufficient to select the 
number of directors needed to control the subsidiary’s board and to 
select and terminate senior management; 
(2) 
In the case of a subsidiary that is a limited partnership, the trust company 
or an operating subsidiary thereof has the ability to control the 
management and operations of the subsidiary by controlling the selection 
and termination of senior management; or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
32 
(3) 
In the case of a subsidiary that is an LLC, the trust company or an 
operating subsidiary thereof has the ability to control the management 
and operations of the subsidiary by controlling the selection and 
termination of senior management. 
3. 
and the operating subsidiary is consolidated with the trust company under generally 
accepted accounting principles. 
B. 
Additional Limitations 
The trust company through its operating subsidiary may invest in a corporation, LLC, partnership, 
or similar business entity at less than a 50 percent ownership level provided that each of the 
following conditions are met: 
1. 
The activities of the corporation, LLC, partnership or similar business entity in which the 
investment is made are limited to activities that are part of, or incidental to, the trust 
company business; 
2. 
The trust company is able to prevent the corporation, LLC, partnership or similar 
business entity from engaging in activities that do not meet the foregoing standard or has 
the ability to withdraw its investment; 
3. 
The trust company's loss exposure is limited as a legal matter and the trust company 
does not have unlimited liability for the obligations of the corporation, LLC, partnership or 
similar business entity; 
4. 
The investment is convenient and useful to the trust company in carrying out its business 
and not a mere passive investment unrelated to the trust company's business; and 
5. 
The corporation, LLC, partnership or similar business entity the trust company is 
investing in agrees to be subject to Colorado Division of Banking supervision and 
examination. 
TC20 
Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income (Call Report) Filing Requirements [Section 
11-109- 402(4)(a), C.R.S.] 
A. 
Depository Trust Company Requirements 
Depository trust companies must file quarterly Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income 
(Call Reports) electronically with the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) 
Central Data Repository (CDR) in conformance with FFIEC Call Report Instructions. The 
standard late filing fees will be imposed if the CDR does not receive the Call Report data file 
within 30 calendar days after the report date. 
B. 
Non-Depository Trust Company Requirements 
Non-depository trust companies must file electronically quarterly Call Reports directly with the 
Colorado Division of Banking in conformance with Non-Depository Call Report Instructions.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
33 
TC21 
Fiduciary Self-Dealing [Section 11-109-103, C.R.S.] 
A. 
Unless authorized by applicable law, a trust company may not invest funds of a fiduciary account 
for which a trust company has investment discretion in the stock or obligations of, or assets 
acquired from: the trust company or its directors, officers or employees; or affiliates of the trust 
company or any of their directors, officers, or employees; or organizations with whom there exists 
an interest that might affect the exercise of the best judgment of the trust company. If the 
retention of stock or obligations of the trust company or its affiliates in a fiduciary account is 
consistent with applicable law, a trust company may exercise rights to purchase its own stock or 
securities convertible into its own stock when offered pro rate to stockholders. When the exercise 
of rights or receipt of the stock dividend results in fractional shareholding, additional fractional 
shares may be purchased to compliment the fractional shares acquired. 
B. 
A trust company may sell assets between any of its fiduciary accounts if the transaction is fair to 
both accounts and is not prohibited by applicable law. 
C. 
A trust company may deposit funds of the fiduciary account as time or demand deposits in its own 
banking department provided such transactions are fair to the fiduciary account. 
TC22 
Establishment of a Colorado Office Location by a Trust Company Chartered in Another 
State [Section 11-109-202(5), C.R.S.] 
A. 
Definitions 
For the purposes of this Rule 
1. 
“Home state” means the state where the trust company is chartered. 
2. 
“Home state supervisor” means the state supervisory agency with primary responsibility 
for chartering and supervising the trust company. 
3. 
“Out-of-state trust company” shall mean any trust company chartered under the laws of 
another state and domiciled in that state. 
4. 
“Representative trust office” shall have the same meaning as set forth in Section 11-109- 
101(6), C.R.S. 
5. 
“Trust business” shall have the same meaning as set forth in Section 11-109-101(10), 
C.R.S. 
6. 
“Trust office” shall have the same meaning as set forth in Section 11-109-101(13), C.R.S. 
B. 
Establishment of a Representative Trust Office 
1. 
The Banking Board shall issue a certificate of authority to an out-of-state trust company 
to establish a representative trust office in Colorado upon finding that: 
a. 
The out-of-state trust company is lawfully chartered and operating in good 
standing in the home state; 
b. 
The out-of-state trust company has the authority to operate a representative 
office outside of its home state and the establishment of such office has been 
approved by the applicant’s board of directors;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
34 
c. 
A trust company chartered by, and in good standing with, the Colorado Division 
of Banking would be allowed by the applicant’s home state supervisor to 
establish a representative trust office under similar terms and conditions in the 
applicant’s home state; 
d. 
The applicant’s home state supervisor has entered into a cooperative regulatory 
and information sharing agreement with the Division of Banking, and/or has 
entered into the Conference of State Bank Supervisors Nationwide Cooperative 
Agreement for the Supervision of Multi-State Trust Institutions; 
e. 
The name that the representative trust office is to be operated under is not the 
same, or deceptively similar to that of an existing Colorado bank- or trust 
company; and, 
f. 
The applicant has certified that a trust business will not be conducted at the 
representative office. 
C. 
Establishment of a Trust Office 
1. 
The Banking Board shall issue a certificate of authority to an out-of-state trust company 
to establish a trust office and conduct a trust business in Colorado upon finding that: 
a. 
The out-of-state trust company is lawfully chartered and operating in good 
standing in the home state; 
b. 
The out-of-state trust company has the authority to operate a trust office outside 
of its home state and the establishment of such office has been approved by the 
applicant’s board of directors; 
c. 
A trust company chartered by, and in good standing with, the Colorado Division 
of Banking would be allowed by the applicant’s home state supervisor to 
establish a trust office under similar terms and conditions in the applicant’s home 
state; 
d. 
The applicant’s home state supervisor has entered into a cooperative regulatory 
and information sharing agreement with the Division of Banking, and/or has 
entered into the Conference of State Bank Supervisors Nationwide Cooperative 
Agreement for the Supervision of Multi-State Trust Institutions; 
e. 
The name that the trust office is to be operated under is not the same, or 
deceptively similar to that of an existing Colorado bank or trust company; 
f. 
If the applicant proposes to accept deposits, such deposits are insured by the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; and, 
g. 
The applicant maintains capital at or above the minimum standards as set forth in 
Banking Board Rule TC13 for depository trust companies, or Banking Board Rule 
TC13.5 for non-depository trust companies. 
(1) 
An applicant may satisfy the minimum capital requirement by depositing 
eligible securities in accordance with the requirements of Banking Board 
Rule TC17 in an amount, when combined with the applicant’s equity 
capital, sufficient to meet the required minimum capital levels.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
35 
D. 
Certificate of Authority 
Before a certificate of authority is issued for a representative trust office or trust office, the out-of-
state trust company shall pay to the Colorado Division of Banking a fee in an amount as set by 
the Banking Board and published in accordance with Banking Board Rule AR16. Each certificate 
of authority shall expire on January 1 unless the out-of-state trust company certifies in writing that 
it is, and shall remain, in compliance with the conditions of Paragraph (B) or (C) of this Rule, as 
applicable. 
E. 
Termination of Certificate of Authority 
The Commissioner may, upon ten (10) days notice, terminate a certificate of authority if it is 
determined that the out-of-state trust company is not in compliance with the conditions of 
Paragraph (B) or (C) of this Rule, as applicable. Within ten (10) days following receipt of the 
termination notice, the out-of-state trust company may file an application with the Banking Board 
for hearing to rescind the Commissioner’s determination. 
TC23 
Application Procedures for Private Family Trust Company Charter [Section 11-109-1003, 
C.R.S.] [Repealed eff. 11/14/2013] 
TC24 
Private Family Trust Company Exemptions [Section 11-109-1003(1), C.R.S.] [Repealed eff. 
11/14/2013] 
TC25 
Revocation of Exemption [Section 11-109-1006, C.R.S.] [Repealed eff. 11/14/2013] 
TC26 
Conversion of a Private Family Trust Company to a Public Trust Company [Section 11-109-
1007, C.R.S.] [Repealed eff. 11/14/2013] 
TC27 
Change of Control of a Private Family Trust Company [Section 11-109-1007, C.R.S.] 
[Repealed eff. 11/14/2013] 
TC28 
Charter Surrender [Section 11-109-701(1), C.R.S.] 
A. 
Overview and Rule 
1. 
A trust company may discontinue its trust business upon furnishing to the Banking Board 
satisfactory evidence of its release and discharge from all trust obligations that it has 
undertaken or that have been imposed by law. Thereupon, the Banking Board shall 
cancel the charter, and such trust company shall not be permitted to use the word “trust” 
in its name or connection with its business. 
2. 
A trust company that has not operated in Colorado, or has not conducted any trust 
business and has been released from any trust or other trust obligations for 24 months or 
more, must surrender its charter for cancellation and remove the word “trust” from its 
name. 
3. 
A trust company in good standing when it surrenders its charter, may reapply for a trust 
charter as outlined in Section 11-109-301, C.R.S., and it must submit an updated 
business plan and supporting documentation as required in an initial chartering 
application. The company may also submit a pre-filing of an application for review and 
feedback from the Commissioner.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 701-6 
Division of Banking 
 
36 
TC29 
Audit of Fiduciary Activities [Section 11-109-402(4)(c), C.R.S.] 
A. 
Annual audit. At least once during each calendar year, a trust company must arrange for a 
suitable audit (by internal or external auditors) of all significant fiduciary activities, unless the trust 
company adopts a continuous audit system in accordance with Paragraph (B) of this Rule. The 
trust company must note the results of the audit (including significant actions taken as a result of 
the audit) in the minutes of the board of directors/managers. 
B. 
Continuous audit. In lieu of performing annual audits under Paragraph (A) of this Rule, a trust 
company may adopt a continuous audit system under which the trust company arranges for a 
discrete audit (by internal or external auditors) of each significant fiduciary activity (i.e., on an 
activity-by-activity basis) under the direction of its audit or similar committee, at an interval 
commensurate with the nature and risk of that activity. Thus, certain fiduciary activities may 
receive audits at intervals greater or less than one year, as appropriate. A trust company that 
adopts a continuous audit system must note the results of all discrete audits performed since the 
last audit report (including significant actions taken as a result of the audits) in the minutes of the 
board of directors/managers at least once during each calendar year. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Rule TC13.5 eff. 07/30/2007. 
Rules TC23-TC27 eff. 12/30/2008. 
Rules TC23-TC27 repealed eff. 11/14/2013. 
Rule TC15 repealed eff. 04/30/2016. 
Rules TC11 D.7, TC20 A emer. rules eff. 04/02/2020; expired 07/29/2020. 
Rules TC11 D.7, TC11 E eff. 04/14/2022. 
Rules TC1, TC7, TC8, TC10, TC11, TC13, TC13.5, TC16, TC17, TC18, TC20, TC21, TC22, TC28 eff. 
12/15/2024. Rules TC6, TC14 repealed eff. 12/15/2024. 
Rules TC7, TC9, TC19, TC29 eff. 06/14/2025. 
Annotations 
Rule TC5 (adopted 12/15/2005) was not extended by House Bill 07-1167 and therefore expired 
05/15/2007.
