---
id: "3_CCR_720-1"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "3 CCR 720-1"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12412&fileName=3%20CCR%20720-1&type=pdf"
---

#### 3_CCR_720-1. 3 CCR 720-1

1 
DEPARTMENT OF REGULATORY AGENCIES 
State Plumbing Board 
PLUMBING RULES AND REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
1.1 
STATEMENT OF BASIS AND PURPOSE 
A.
The following Rules and Regulations of the Colorado State Plumbing Board
(“Board”) are necessary for general clarification, efficient management,
expeditious procedures, and safeguarding of the general public, in compliance
with Title 12, Article 155 of the Colorado Revised Statutes. These Rules and
Regulations shall be known, and may be cited, as “the Rules” and/or “these
Rules.”
B.
The Board adopts the following Rules pursuant to the authority granted to the
Colorado State Plumbing Board (“Board”) by sections 12-155-105(1)(e) and 12-
155-106(1) and (5), C.R.S., and hereby repeals all previous rules with the same
number.
C.
These Rules shall be binding on every person and legal entity authorized to
practice, offer to practice, or perform plumbing or plumbing contracting as well as
jurisdictions granted authority to perform permitting and inspections and their
inspectors in Colorado. All licensees, registrants and plumbing inspectors under
Title 12, Article 155 of the Colorado Revised Statutes are charged with having
knowledge of the existence of these Rules and shall be deemed to be familiar
with their provisions and to understand the Rules. In these Rules, the word
“licensee” shall mean any person holding a master plumber license,
journeyworker plumber license, or residential plumber license. In these Rules,
the word “registrant” shall mean any person registered as a plumbing apprentice
and any person or legal entity registered with the Board as a plumbing
contractor.
D.
These Rules are severable. If one rule or portion of a rule is found to be invalid,
all other rules or portions of rules that can be enforced without the invalid rules
shall be enforced and shall remain valid.
1.2 
STANDARDS 
A.
Colorado Plumbing Code
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
2 
The Board hereby adopts and incorporates by reference, with certain additions, 
revisions, and deletions, the following chapters, sections, and appendices of the 
International Plumbing Code (“IPC”) and International Residential Code (“IRC”). 
These Rules, together with the following incorporated provisions, shall be known 
as the Colorado Plumbing Code. The Colorado Plumbing Code sets forth the 
minimum standards governing the inspection, installation, alteration, and repair of 
the plumbing fixtures, appliances, and systems throughout Colorado. The 
Colorado Plumbing Code does not include any later amendments to or editions 
of the IPC or IRC provisions listed below. 
1. 
Chapter 1, Sections 101.2, 102, 105, 106.1, 106.3, 106.4, 106.5, 106.5.5, 
106.6.1, 107, 108.1, 110.3 Chapters 2-13, 15; and Appendices B, C, D, 
and E of the IPC, 2021 edition promulgated by the International Code 
Council 1st printing (March 2020). 
2. 
Chapter 1, Section R101, R102; Chapter 2; Chapter 3, Section R305.1 
exceptions 1 and 2, Section R306; Chapters 25-32, of the IRC, 2021 
edition, promulgated by the International Code Council, 1st printing 
(January 2021). 
B. 
Colorado Fuel Gas Code 
The Board hereby adopts and incorporates by reference, with certain additions, 
revisions, and deletions, the following chapters, sections, and appendices of the 
International Fuel Gas Code (“IFGC”) and the IRC. These Rules, together with 
the following incorporated provisions, shall be known as the Colorado Fuel Gas 
Code. The Colorado Fuel Gas Code sets forth the minimum standards governing 
the inspection, installation, alteration, and repair of fuel gas piping and systems 
throughout Colorado. The Colorado Fuel Gas Code does not include any later 
amendments to or editions of the IFGC and IRC provisions listed below. 
1. 
Chapter 1 Section 101, 102, 105, 107, Chapters 2-8 save and except 
Sections 412 and 413, Appendices A-C of the IFGC, 2021 edition, 
promulgated by the International Code Council, 1st printing (August 2020). 
2. 
Chapter 1, Section R101, R102; Chapter 2; Chapter 24, Sections G2411-
G2422, and G2401.1-Table G2428.3(4) and G2448 of the IRC, 2021 
edition, promulgated by the International Code Council, 1st printing 
(January 2021).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
3 
C. 
Public Copies 
Copies of the provisions of the IPC, IFGC, and IRC, adopted and incorporated 
into the Colorado Plumbing Code and the Colorado Fuel Gas Code, are available 
for public inspection during regular business hours at the Board office at the 
Department of Regulatory Agencies Welcome Center, 1560 Broadway, Civic 
Center Plaza, Denver, Colorado, 80202, and at any state publications depository 
library. For further information regarding how this material can be obtained or 
examined, contact the Program Director for the Board (“Program Director”) at 
1560 Broadway, Suite 1350, Denver, Colorado, 80202, (303) 894-2309. Copies 
of the IPC, IFGD, and IRC may be obtained from the International Code Council, 
500 New Jersey Avenue, NW, 6th Floor, Washington, DC 20001. A list of ICC 
regional offices is available at 
http://www.iccsafe.org/AboutICC/Pages/ContactICC.aspx. 
D. 
General Interpretations 
The following shall apply to the Colorado Plumbing Code and Colorado Fuel Gas 
Code. 
1. 
Code Official. Whenever the Colorado Plumbing Code and the Colorado 
Fuel Gas Code refer to “the code official,” it shall mean the Board or its 
designee, if any. 
2. 
Reasonable Time. As used in the Rules, the term “reasonable time” shall 
mean thirty calendar days. 
3. 
Amendments to the Colorado Codes. Any city, town, county or city and 
county which adopts more stringent standards than the Colorado Codes 
shall furnish a copy thereof to the Board. 
4. 
Abbreviations 
ANSI – American National Standards Institute 
ASME – American Society of Mechanical Engineers 
ASSE – American Society of Sanitary Engineers 
ASTM – American Society for Testing and Materials 
C.F.R. – Code of Federal Requirements 
C.R.S. – Colorado Revised Statutes 
ICC – International Code Council 
NFPA – National Fire Protection Association

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
4 
USC FCCC&HR – University of Southern California, Foundation for Cross-
Connection Control and Hydraulic Research 
5. 
Alternate Materials and Methods Review 
a. 
Criteria. The Board shall consider requests for approval of 
alternate materials or methods under the procedures and limitations 
of Section 105 of the Colorado Plumbing Code and Colorado Fuel 
Gas Code. 
b. 
Procedures 
(1) 
Petitions for Approval. Any interested person may petition 
the Board to amend the Colorado Plumbing or Fuel Gas 
Code so as to approve the use of an alternate material or 
method, pursuant to Section 105 of the IPC. Such petition 
shall conform to the requirements in subsection (2)(b). 
Incomplete petitions will not be processed. 
(2) 
Petition Contents. Each petition filed under this Rule shall 
comply with the following requirements: 
(a) 
Where to Submit. Petitions shall be submitted in 
duplicate to the Program Director. 
(b) 
Petition Document. Petitions shall begin with a short 
concise document labeled as the “petition,” and which 
includes the following information: 
(i) 
Identification of the petitioner and the 
petitioner's interest in the alternate materials or 
methods approval. This identification shall 
designate one person as the Board's contact 
for the petition, and list telephone, fax, e-mail, 
and mailing addresses for that person. 
(ii) 
A full description of the types of uses for which 
the petitioner would like approval. This list 
should be sufficiently detailed to allow the 
Board to consider specific types of applications 
or uses for the alternate material and/or 
method.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
5 
(iii) 
A complete identification of the applicable 
standards from the Referenced Standards 
identified in the Colorado Plumbing Code or 
Colorado Fuel Gas Code that the petitioner 
proposes to be the acceptance criteria for the 
alternate material or method. 
(iv) 
If the petition is for approval of an alternate 
material, one sample of the material. The 
sample will be returned to the petitioner after 
completion of the review process. 
(v) 
Copy of approval language of each code the 
petitioner cites. 
(c) 
Submission of National Standards. Each petition 
shall be accompanied by a set of the applicable 
standards from the Referenced Standards identified in 
the Colorado Plumbing Code, Colorado Fuel Gas 
Code or other standards listed by the petitioner in 
Rule 1.2(D)(5)(b)(2)(iii). If the listed standard 
incorporates other standards into its criteria, copies of 
the incorporated standards shall be submitted as well. 
(d) 
Results of Independent Third Party Compliance 
Testing. Each petition shall be supported with 
complete copies of test reports with protocols issued 
within the previous eighteen months prior to the date 
of submission by a laboratory or other testing facility 
that is recognized as a nationally recognized testing 
laboratory, pursuant to 29 C.F.R. section 1910.7, or 
by an ANSI accredited third-party certifier. 
(e) 
Compliance with Section 105. Each petition shall be 
supported by detailed written discussion as to why the 
proposed alternate material or method meets the 
following requirements from Section 105 of the IPC: 
(i) 
That the proposed design of the proposed 
alternate material is satisfactory and complies 
with the intent of the Colorado Plumbing Code 
or Colorado Fuel Gas Code.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
6 
(ii) 
That the proposed material is appropriate for 
the proposed intended use at least the 
equivalent of that prescribed in the Colorado 
Plumbing Code or Colorado Fuel Gas Code 
with respect to quality, strength, effectiveness, 
durability and safety. This description requires 
that the petitioner directly compare the quality, 
strength, effectiveness, durability and safety 
data on the applicable conventional systems 
with the tested and documented performance 
characteristics of the proposed alternate 
material and/or method. 
(iii) 
When an alternate installation method is 
proposed, the petitioner shall describe how the 
proposed method of installation conforms to 
the most recently adopted edition of the 
Colorado Plumbing Code or Colorado Fuel 
Gas Code. 
c. 
Reconsideration of Board Action 
Any petitioner whose petition has not been fully granted by the 
Board may apply for reconsideration of the Board’s decision within 
thirty days of the mailing of the Board's notice of denial, publication 
of notice of termination, or publication of the Board Rule that 
partially granted the petition. A request for reconsideration shall be 
in writing and shall explain why reconsideration is warranted. Action 
on any request for reconsideration is within the sole discretion of 
the Board. 
6. 
Fee Establishment. Licensing, permit, and reinspection fees shall be 
established pursuant to section 12-20-105, C.R.S., and shall be 
categorized appropriately, such as original license, registration, 
endorsement, renewal, reinstatement fees, permit fees, and reinspection 
fees. 
7. 
Information Only Sections. Installations detailed in the Colorado 
Plumbing Code that are typically not installed by plumbers (i.e., shower 
wall composition from Sections 421.4.1, IPC and P2710.1, IRC; Shower 
floors from Sections 421.5, IPC and P2709.2, P2709.3, IRC) are not 
subject to licensing, permitting or inspection but are informational only.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
7 
8. 
Definitions 
a. 
Certified Cross-Connection Control Technician means a person 
who possesses a valid Backflow Prevention Assembly Tester 
certification from one of the following approved organizations: 
American Society of Sanitary Engineering (ASSE), the American 
Backflow Prevention Association (ABPA), or other agency 
recognized by the Board. 
9. 
Clarification of “Domestic appliances” referenced in section 12-155-
118(6)(a)(I), C.R.S. and “faucets” as shown in section 12-155-
118(6)(a)(II), C.R.S. 
Water heaters used to supply domestic hot water to a residential or 
commercial potable water system are not equipped with backflow 
preventers. Therefore, they do not fall under the exemption in section 12-
155-118(6)(a)(l), C.R.S. 
Shower valves and tub and shower valves referenced in 2021 IPC 
sections 412.3 to 412.8 and 2021 IRC section P2708.4 shall not be 
considered “faucets”. Therefore, they do not fall under the exemption in 
section 12-155-118-(6)(a)(II) CRS. 
10. 
Clarification of back flow prevention device installation requirements. 
A plumbing license is not required for persons engaged in the business of 
inspecting, testing, and repairing backflow prevention devices. Section 12-
155-118(4), C.R.S., requires persons engaged in the installation and 
removal of such devices that are within the definition of plumbing to be a 
registered and licensed plumbing contractor. 
E. 
Revisions and Exceptions to the Incorporated Codes 
1. 
Revisions and Exceptions to the Colorado Plumbing Code 
a. 
IPC Section 102.8 Referenced codes and standards 
Delete in its entirety and replace with: 
[A] 102.8 Referenced codes and standards. The codes and 
standards referenced in this code shall be those that are listed in 
Chapter 15 and such codes and standards adopted or recognized 
by the Plumbing Board shall be considered as part of the 
requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each such 
reference. 
b. 
IPC Section 106.5 Permit issuance

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
8 
Add exception reading: 
Exception: Where emergency plumbing is performed, the required 
permit may be obtained the following business day after the work 
has been started (i.e., broken water lines, broken drain lines, water 
heater replacements). 
c. 
IPC Section 202 Definitions 
Add new definitions to read: 
Direct Supervision. Direct supervision means that the supervising 
licensed master plumber, journeyworker plumber, or residential 
plumber is physically present at the same physical addresses listed 
on the permits and where the apprentice is working or no more than 
five minutes distance from the apprentice within the same 
construction or job site. 
d. 
IPC Section 202 Definitions 
Add new definitions to read: 
Trap drain. That portion of horizontal piping between the weir of a 
trap and the point where it intersects with the vent serving that 
same trap (trap arm). 
e. 
IPC Section 202 Definitions 
Delete the definition and replace with: 
Fixture Drain. That portion of a plumbing drainage system that 
connects the trap drain to any other drain pipe receiving the 
discharge from one or more plumbing fixtures. 
f. 
IPC Section 202 Definitions 
Delete the definition and replace with: 
Graywater. Wastewater that, before being treated or combined 
with other wastewater, is collected from fixtures within residential, 
commercial, or industrial buildings or institutional facilities for the 
purpose of being put to beneficial uses. Sources of graywater are 
limited to discharges from bathroom and laundry room sinks, 
bathtubs, showers, and laundry machines. Graywater does not 
include the wastewater from toilets, urinals, kitchen sinks, 
dishwashers, or non-laundry utility sinks. 
g. 
IPC Section 202 Definitions

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
9 
Delete the definition and replace with: 
Reclaimed Water. Domestic wastewater that has received 
secondary treatment by a domestic wastewater treatment works 
(centralized system or a localized system) and such additional 
treatment as to enable the wastewater to meet the standards for 
approved uses. 
h. 
IPC Section 305.1 Protection against contact. 
Delete section in it's entirety and replace with: 
IPC Section 305.1 Protection against contact. Piping except for, for 
cast iron, ductile iron, and galvanized steel shall not be placed in 
direct contact with steel framing members. Piping shall not be 
placed in direct contact with concrete or cinder walls and floors, 
other masonry, and corrosive soil. Where sheathing is used to 
prevent direct contact, the sheathing shall have a thickness of not 
less than .025 inch (.64 mm). Where sheathing protects piping that 
penetrates concrete or masonry walls or floors, the sheathing shall 
be installed in a manner that allows movement of the piping within 
the sheathing. 
i. 
IPC Section 308 Interval of support 
308.5 Interval of support 
Add new sentence at the end of the section to read: 
Hanger support rods shall be sized in accordance with table 
308.5.1 
j. 
Add new Table 308.5.1 Hanger Rod Size 
 
Table 308.5.1 Hanger Rod Size 
Pipe and Tube Size 
Rod Size 
½” – 4” 
3/8” 
5” – 8” 
½” 
10” – 12” 
5/8”

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
10 
k. 
IPC Section 308.7.1 Location 
Delete in its entirety and replace with: 
308.7.1 Location. For pipe sizes greater than four inches (102 
mm), restraints shall be provided for drain pipes utilizing 
mechanical joints at all changes in direction and at all changes in 
diameter greater than two pipe sizes. Braces, blocks, rodding and 
other suitable methods as specified by the coupling manufacturer 
shall be utilized. 
l. 
IPC Section 312.1 Required tests 
Delete the words “for piping systems other than plastic” and “After 
the plumbing fixtures have been set and their traps filled with water, 
the entire drainage system shall be submitted to final tests. The 
code official shall require the removal of any cleanouts if necessary 
to ascertain whether the pressure has reached all parts of the 
system.” 
m. 
IPC Section 312.3 Drainage and vent air test 
Delete the words “Plastic piping shall not be tested using air.” 
n. 
IPC Section 312.4 Drainage and vent final test 
Delete in its entirety. 
o. 
IPC Section 312.5 Water supply system test 
Delete the words “for piping systems other than plastic.” 
p. 
IPC Section 312.9 Shower liner test 
Delete in its entirety.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
11 
q. 
IPC Section 312.10.2 Testing 
Delete the verbiage entirely and replace it with: 
312.10.2 Testing. Reduced pressure principle, double check, 
pressure vacuum breaker, reduced pressure detector fire 
protection, double check detector fire protection, and spill-resistant 
vacuum breaker backflow preventer assemblies and hose 
connection backflow preventers shall be tested at the time of 
installation, immediately after repairs or relocation and at least 
annually by a certified cross connection control technician, in 
accordance with the applicable testing procedures associated with 
each specific certifying agency. When applicable the testing 
procedure shall be performed for the identified backflow prevention 
assembly in its entirety in accordance with one of the following 
applicable standards: ASSE 5013, ASSE 5015, ASSE 5020, ASSE 
5047, ASSE 5048, ASSE 5052, ASSE 5056, CSA B64.10, CSA 
B64.10.1 or the testing procedures provided in the 10th Edition 
Manual of Cross-Connection Control from the University of 
Southern California’s Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and 
Hydraulic Research. 
The testing procedures from the 10th Edition Manual of Cross-
Connection Control from the University of Southern California’s 
Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research 
is incorporated by reference, and may be examined at the Colorado 
Plumbing Board’s office at 1560 Broadway, Suite 1350, Denver, 
Colorado 80202, during normal business hours, Monday through 
Friday, except days designated as state holidays. Certified copies 
of the 10th Edition Manual of Cross-Connection Control shall be 
provided at cost, upon request. The Board or the Board’s staff will 
provide information regarding how the 10th Edition Manual of 
Cross-Connection Control may be examined for free at the state 
public depository library. The 10th Edition Manual of Cross-
Connection Control is also available from the agency, organization 
or association originally issuing the code, standard, guideline, or 
rule at: USC Foundation Office, Research Annex 219, Los Angeles, 
CA 90089-7700 or (https://fccchr.usc.edu/). This rule does not 
include any later amendments or editions of the code, standard, 
guideline, or rule. 
r. 
IPC Section 403.1 Minimum number of fixtures 
Add a new sentence to the end of the section to read as follows:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
12 
Lavatory to water closet or urinal ratios in accordance with Table 
403.1 shall be maintained in all restrooms. 
s. 
IPC Section 403.3 Employee and public toilet facilities, effective 
January 1, 2024 
Add a new paragraph to the end of the section to read as follows: 
All state departments (excluding K-12 schools), state agencies, 
state institutions of higher education, counties, cities, or 
municipality buildings that are newly constructed or are being 
remodeled shall provide an ADA-compliant single-user or an ADA-
compliant multi-user non-gendered restrooms as required by 
section 9-5.7-103, C.R.S. 
t. 
IPC Section 405.3.2 Public Lavatories 
Add a new exception reading: 
Exception: Lavatories located outside a toilet room located within a 
classroom serving students from that classroom only. These toilet 
rooms and lavatories shall not count toward the total fixture count 
required by Table 403.1. 
u. 
IPC Section 410.4 Substitution. 
Change first sentence to read: 
Where restaurants (or spaces classified as an A2 occupancy) 
provide drinking water in a container free of charge, drinking 
fountains shall not be required in (these restaurants and A2 
occupancies). 
v. 
IPC Section 421.7 Shower head location 
Add new section to read: 
421.7 Shower head location. Showerheads shall be located on 
the sidewall of shower compartments or be arranged so the shower 
head does not discharge directly at the entrance to the 
compartment and the bather can adjust the valve prior to stepping 
into the shower spray. 
Exception: Showers of the roll in type installed in accordance with 
2017 ANSI A117.1 or ICC A117.1. 
w. 
IPC Section 421.8 Shower valve location

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
13 
Add new section to read: 
421.8 Shower valve location. A shower or tub/shower control 
valve shall be installed only where the spout and/or shower head 
discharges into an approved tub or shower compartment. 
Exception: Emergency Showers. 
x. 
IPC Section 425.3 Water closet seats 
Add new exception to read: 
Exception: Water closets installed in public restrooms for the 
purpose of complying with accessible fixtures as required by 
Section 404 fitted with the “AXS-Wingman Universal Design Water 
Closet Seat” having a closed front are allowed. 
y. 
IPC Section 504.6.1 Collection of Relief Valve Discharge 
Add new section 504.6.1 to read: 
504.6.1. Collection of Relief Valve Discharge. A means shall be 
provided to capture the discharge from a relief valve and convey it 
to the sanitary drainage system or exterior of the structure either by 
gravity or a pumped discharge. 
Exceptions: 
(1) 
Replacements for existing water heaters. 
(2) 
Where a water sensing device wired to a normally closed 
solenoid valve installed in the water supply piping to the 
heater is placed within the water heater drain pan. 
z. 
IPC Section 504.6.1.1 Pumped discharge of relief valve collection 
Add new Section 504.6.1 to read as follows: 
504.6.1.1 Pumped discharge of relief valve collection. Pumps 
used to discharge the clear water collection of relief valves shall 
have an operating temperature equal to or exceeding that of the 
relief valve discharge temperature and shall have a gpm rating 
equal to or greater than the discharge of the relief valve. 
aa. 
IPC Section 504.7 Required pan. 
Add new exception to read:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
14 
Replacements for water heaters that did not have a pan previously 
installed to code in effect at the time of the original installation. 
bb. 
IPC Section 504.7 Required pan. 
Add new sentence at end of the section to read: 
Unless the pan is constructed of material having a flame spread 
index of 25 or less and a smoke-developed index of 450 or less 
when tested in accordance with ASTM E84 or UL 723. 
cc. 
IPC Section 605.15.2 Solvent cementing 
Delete the exception in its entirety. 
dd. 
IPC Section 608.3.1 Special equipment, water supply protection 
Add additional wording to read: 
The water supply for hospital fixtures and dental chairs shall be 
protected against backflow with a reduced pressure principle 
backflow prevention assembly, an atmospheric or spill resistant 
vacuum breaker assembly, or an air gap. Vacuum breakers for 
bedpan washer hoses shall not be located less than 5 feet (1524 
mm) above the floor. Vacuum breakers for hose connections in 
health care or laboratory areas shall be not less than 6 feet (1829 
mm) above the floor. 
ee. 
IPC Section 608.9.1 Signage required 
Delete the section in its entirety and replace with: 
(1) 
Plumbing fixtures flushed with nonpotable water shall be 
identified with signage that reads as follows: 
“Nonpotable water is used to flush this fixture. CAUTION: 
NONPOTABLE WATER – DO NOT DRINK.” 
In addition to the required wordage, the pictograph shown in 
figure 608.8.1 shall appear on the required signage. 
(2) 
A permanent warning sign must also be visible at all fixtures 
from which graywater is collected. The sign must state that: 
“WATER FROM THIS FIXTURE IS REUSED. CHEMICALS, 
EXCRETA, PETROLEUM OILS AND HAZARDOUS 
MATERIALS MUST NOT BE DISPOSED DOWN THIS 
DRAIN.”

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
15 
(3) 
For both types of fixtures indicated in subsections 
1.2(E)(1)(ee)(1) and (2) above, the words shall be legibly 
and indelibly printed on a tag or sign constructed of 
corrosion-resistant waterproof material or shall be indelibly 
printed on the fixture. The letters of the words shall be not 
less than 0.5 inch (12.7 mm) in height and in colors in 
contrast to the background on which they are applied. 
ff. 
IPC Section 608.9.2 Distribution pipe labeling and marking 
Delete the section verbiage and replace with: 
Nonpotable distribution piping shall be purple in color or the piping 
shall be installed with a purple identification tape or wrap the entire 
length of the piping and shall be embossed, or integrally stamped 
or marked, with the words: “CAUTION: NONPOTABLE WATER – 
DO NOT DRINK”. 
gg. 
IPC Section 608-17 Connections to the Potable Water Systems 
Add new subsection 608.17.2.1 to read: 
Section 608.17.2.1 essentially nontoxic fluid conditioning chemical. 
When the conditioning chemical introduced is an essentially 
nontoxic transfer fluid the potable supplier to the boiler shall, at a 
minimum, be equipped with a backflow preventer with an 
intermediate atmospheric vent complying with ASSE 1012 or CSA 
B64.3. 
hh. 
IPC Section 608 Protection of potable water system 
Add new subsection 608.17.11 to read: 
Section 608.17.11 Connection to graywater system or reclaimed 
water system 
The potable water system connection to a graywater system must 
be protected against backflow by an air gap or reduced pressure 
principle backflow prevention assembly.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
16 
ii. 
IPC Section 701.2 Connection to sewer required 
Add exception 2: 
Exception 2: Floor drains or trench drains installed in utility 
buildings and residential garages may be daylighted or discharged 
to an approved alternative disposal system when written approval 
has been provided from the jurisdiction having authority through 
CDPHE or sewer purveyor. 
jj. 
IPC Section 705.10.2 Solvent cementing 
Delete the exception in its entirety. 
kk. 
IPC Section 706.3. Installation of fittings 
Add sentence to end of IPC Section 706.3: 
fixture crosses will not be required to meet the exception of IPC 
Section706.3 
ll. 
IPC Table 706.3 Fittings for change of direction 
Delete footnotes a and b from the table. 
mm. IPC Section 708.1.3 Building drain and building sewer junction. 
Add new sentence at the end of the section to read: 
When the cleanout is installed at the junction of the building drain 
and building sewer, it shall be an approved two way fitting with a 
single riser not to exceed 4 feet in depth or a two riser cleanout 
using back to back combination fittings or equal of schedule 40 
material. Cleanouts shall be installed and tested at underground or 
rough-in in accordance with Section 312.2. 
nn. 
IPC Section 802.1.8 Domestic dishwashing machines 
Add a new section to read: 
Domestic dishwashing machines may be connected to a separately 
trapped stand pipe provided with an air break (with drain hose 
secured to the underside of the counter top) or air gap as shown in 
the illustration below. Refer to 2021 IPC 409.4 for additional waste 
connections.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
17 
 
oo. 
IPC Section 802.3 Installation 
Delete the last sentence 
pp. 
IPC Section 802.4 Waste receptors. 
Add new exception to read: 
Exception: Where equipment is installed in a crawl space, a waste 
receptor shall be allowed with an approved backwater valve 
installed. 
qq. 
IPC Section 903.1.1 Roof extension unprotected 
Insert 6 inches into the section so that it reads: “All open vent pipes 
that extend through a roof shall be terminated at least 6 inches 
above the roof. 
rr. 
IPC Section 903.1.3 Protected vent terminal 
Change wording to read 4 inches instead of 2 inches. 
    2” sink drain

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
18 
Section 903.1.3 Where an open vent pipe terminates above a 
sloped roof and is covered by either a roof-mounted panel (such as 
a solar collector or photovoltaic panel mounted over the vent 
opening) or a roof element (such as an architectural feature or a 
decorative shroud), the vent pipe shall terminate not less than 4 
inches (102 mm) above the roof surface. 
ss. 
IPC Section 903.2 Frost Closure 
Delete in its entirety. 
tt. 
IPC Section 912.1 Horizontal wet vent permitted 
Add a new exception to read: 
Exception: Fixtures other than those considered to be bathroom 
group fixtures, of equivalent drainage fixture units, may be included 
in the wet vented section provided the total number of drainage 
fixture units does not exceed the total number included in two 
bathroom groups and the fixtures not considered bathroom fixtures 
are valued at one drainage fixture unit or less. 
uu. 
IPC Section 1002.1 Fixture traps 
Add new exception 5 to read: 
Exception: 5. Trench and floor drains connected to a sand oil 
interceptor need not be individually trapped provided the drain 
piping from the trench or floor drains is turned down after entering 
the interceptor so the discharge point is a minimum of 4 inches 
below the standing water level of the interceptor. 
vv. 
IPC Section 1003.1 Where required 
Add the following Exception: 
Exception: Where special regulations exist by the local waste 
water and/or sanitation district into which the grease trap or 
interceptor effluent is transported and/or treated. These regulations 
may supersede this requirement. 
ww. 
IPC.1003.2.3 Food waste disposers restriction. 
Add exception to read: 
When using a gravity interceptor equal to or greater than 500 gallon 
capacity.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
19 
xx. 
IPC Section 1101.3 Prohibited drainage 
Add a new sentence to the end of the section reading: 
Storm water from roof drains shall not discharge over public 
walkways except when an approved grated trough or trench drain 
sized to accept the calculated discharge is installed in the walkway. 
The discharge shall be diverted vertically from a height not greater 
than 12 inches to the grate. 
Exception: Secondary drains. 
yy. 
IPC Section 1301.2.2 Filtration Required Exception 
Modify section 1301.2.2 Exemption reading: 
Nonpotable water utilized for water closet and urinal ﬂushing 
application shall be ﬁltered by a 100-micron or ﬁne ﬁlter. 
Exception: Reclaimed water sources shall not be required to 
comply with these requirements. Graywater treatment systems 
installed in accordance with Section 1302.6.1 do not need to meet 
additional ﬁltration requirements. 
zz. 
IPC Section 1301 General 
Add new section 1301.3.1 reading: 
1301.3.1. Distribution pipe labeling and marking 
Nonpotable distribution piping shall comply with Section 608.8.2 as 
amended in Rule 1.2(E)(1)(u). 
aaa. IPC Section 1301.3.2 Signage required graywater treatment works. 
Add section new section 1301.3.2 reading: 
For each room that contains graywater treatment works 
components, a sign that says “CAUTION GRAYWATER 
TREATMENT WORKS, DO NOT DRINK, DO NOT CONNECT TO 
THE POTABLE DRINKING WATER SYSTEM. NOTICE: 
CONTACT BUILDING MANAGEMENT BEFORE PERFORMING 
ANY WORK ON THIS WATER SYSTEM" must be posted on any 
door providing entrance to the room. 
bbb. IPC Section 1301 General 
Add new figure 1301.4

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
20 
1301.4 Typical Graywater Collection System 
(This figure is typical only, not a schematic) 
 
 
ccc. 
IPC Section 1301 General 
Add new ﬁgure 1301.5 
1301.5 Typical graywater system for toilet and urinal ﬂushing

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
21

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
22 
ddd. IPC Section 1301 General 
Add new ﬁgure 1301.6 
1301.6 Typical graywater system for disbursed subsurface irrigation 
system

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
23 
eee. IPC Section 1301 General 
Add new ﬁgure 1301.7 
1301.7 Typical graywater system for mulch basin subsurface 
irrigation 
 
fff. 
IPC Section 1301.9.2 Materials Exception Add section 
1301.9.2 Exemption reading: 
Exemption. Tanks are not required if the graywater use is 
comprised of only subsurface irrigation and ﬂows into a mulch basin 
system, where the mulch basin volume is three times the 
anticipated average daily ﬂow. 
ggg. IPC Section 1301.9.5 Overflow 
Delete the section verbiage and replace with:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
24 
The storage tank shall be equipped with an overflow pipe having a 
diameter not less than that shown in Table 606.5.4. The overflow 
pipe shall be protected from insects or vermin. The overflow drain 
shall not be equipped with a shutoff valve and shall discharge into 
the sanitary sewer either directly, or indirectly with a trap in the 
drain line to keep odors from escaping the tank. A cleanout shall be 
provided on each overflow pipe in accordance with Section 708. 
hhh. IPC Section 1301.9.8 Draining of tanks 
Delete the text “shall discharge as required for overflow pipes and”. 
Replace it with: shall discharge into the sanitary sewer either 
directly, or indirectly with a trap in the drain line to keep odors from 
escaping the tank 
iii. 
IPC Section 1301.11 Trenching Requirements 
Delete in its entirety. 
jjj. 
IPC Section 1301.12 Outdoor Outlet Access 
Delete in its entirety. 
kkk. 
IPC Section 1302.1 General 
Add a sentence to the end of the section saying: 
All plumbing systems utilizing nonpotable water reuse systems 
shall have a reduced pressure backflow preventer device installed 
at the water service entrance immediately downstream of the 
building water service shut off valve. 
lll. 
IPC Section 1302.5 Filtration 
Add a new sentence to the end of the section saying: 
1302.5 Filtration: Graywater used for dispersed subsurface 
irrigation system requires a cartridge filter. The cartridge filter must 
be a minimum of sixty mesh located between the storage tank and 
the irrigation system. 
Exemption. Filtration is not required for mulch basin subsurface 
irrigation systems. 
mmm. IPC Section 1302.6.1 Graywater used for fixture flushing 
Add a new sentence to the end of the section reading:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
25 
Graywater used for toilet and urinal flushing shall be dyed with blue 
or green food grade vegetable dye and be visibly distinct from 
potable water. 
nnn. IPC Section 1302.7.3 Overflow 
Add a new Section 1302.7.3 that reads: 
1302.7.3 Overflow. Storage tank for on-site nonpotable systems 
must include an overflow line without a shut off valve. The overflow 
line shall be connected to the sanitary sewer indirectly. The 
overflow line must be the same or larger diameter line than the tank 
influent line. The overflow line connected indirectly must be trapped 
to prevent the escape of gas vapors from the tank 
ooo. IPC Section 1302.7.4 Venting 
Add a new Section 1302.7.4 that reads: 
1302.7.4 Venting. Storage tank for on-site nonpotable systems 
must be vented. Indoor tanks must be vented to the atmosphere 
outside the building or connected to the plumbing vent system. 
ppp. IPC Section 1302.7.5 Tank Drains 
Add a new Section 1302.7.5 that reads: 
1302.7.5 Tank Drains. Storage tank for on-site nonpotable 
systems must include a valved drain. The drain shall be indirectly 
connected to the sanitary sewer. The tank drainline must be the 
same or larger diameter line than the tank influent line.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
26 
qqq. IPC Section 1302.8.1 Bypass Valve 
Change the section heading and section verbiage to read: 
Section 1302.8.1 System Bypass 
Delete the section verbiage and replace with: 
One three-way diverter valve listed and labeled to NSF 50 or other 
approved device shall be installed on collection piping upstream of 
any graywater treatment equipment, as applicable, to divert 
untreated on-site reuse sources to the sanitary sewer to allow 
servicing and inspection of the system. Bypass valves shall be 
installed downstream of fixture traps and vent connections. Bypass 
valves shall be marked to indicate the direction of flow, connection 
graywater treatment works, storage tank and graywater subsurface 
irrigation systems. Bypass valves shall be installed in accessible 
locations. Two shutoff valves shall not be installed to serve as a 
bypass valve. In addition to the bypass valve a series of drainage 
fittings shall be installed in the collection piping upstream of the 
bypass valve in a configuration that will allow the graywater from 
the plumbing fixtures to automatically flow directly into the sanitary 
sewer system in the event the filter or other parts of the collection 
system become clogged to the point of not allowing the effluent free 
flow through the system. The overflow line connected to the 
sanitary sewer shall be equipped with a backwater valve. 
rrr. 
IPC Section 1303 Nonpotable rainwater collection and distribution 
systems 
Delete in its entirety. 
sss. 
IPC Chapter 14 Subsurface landscape irrigation systems 
Delete in its entirety. 
2. 
Revisions and Exceptions to the International Residential Code Part VII 
incorporated as the Colorado Plumbing Code 
a. 
IRC Section 105.1 Required 
Add exception reading: 
Exception: Where emergency plumbing is performed, the required 
permit may be obtained the following business day after the work 
has been started (i.e., broken water lines, broken drain lines, water 
heater replacements).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
27 
b. 
IRC Section R202 Definitions 
Add new definition to read as follows: 
Multipurpose Residential Fire Sprinkler System. A Multipurpose 
Residential Fire Sprinkler System includes the domestic water 
distribution piping and the fire sprinkler piping which shall be a part 
of and connect to the cold water distribution piping at any point. 
c. 
IRC Section R202 Definitions 
Add new definitions to read: 
Direct Supervision. Direct supervision means that the supervising 
licensed master plumber, journeyworker plumber, or residential 
plumber is physically present at the same physical addresses listed 
on the permits and where the apprentice is working or no more than 
five minutes distance from the apprentice within the same 
construction or job sites. 
d. 
IRC Section R202 Definitions 
Add new definition to read as follows: 
Trap drain. That portion of horizontal piping between the weir of a 
trap and the point where it intersects with its vent. 
e. 
IRC Section R202 Definitions 
Delete the definition and replace with: 
Fixture drain. That portion of a plumbing drainage system that 
connects the trap drain to any other drain pipe receiving the 
discharge from one or more plumbing fixtures. 
f. 
IRC Section R202 Definitions 
Add new definition to read as follows: 
Manufactured Housing Hookup-Sewer. That portion of drainage 
piping and fittings connecting a single point of drainage pipe 
discharge from the factory installed plumbing of a manufactured 
home to the sanitary sewer riser under the set home. (More than a 
single connection to the home drainage piping shall be considered 
“plumbing” as defined in section 12-155-103, C.R.S., and subject to 
all provisions of Article 155 of Title 12). 
g. 
IRC Section R202 Definitions

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
28 
Add new definition to read as follows: 
Manufactured Housing Hookup-Water. That portion of piping and 
fittings connecting a single point of water supply from the factory 
installed water supply pipe of a manufactured home to the potable 
water riser under the set home. 
h. 
IRC Section 202 Definitions 
Delete the definition and replace with: 
Reclaimed Water. Domestic wastewater that has received 
secondary treatment by a domestic wastewater treatment works 
(centralized system or a localized system) and such additional 
treatment as to enable the wastewater to meet the standards for 
approved uses. 
i. 
IRC Section P2503.5.1 Rough Plumbing 
Delete the words “for piping systems other than plastic”. 
j. 
IRC Section P2503.6 Shower liner test 
Delete in its entirety. 
k. 
IRC Section P2503.7 Water supply system testing 
Delete the words “for piping systems other than plastic” 
l. 
IRC Section P2503.5.2 Finished plumbing. 
Delete 2, 2.1, and 2.2 
m. 
IRC Section P2601.2 Connection to drainage system 
n. 
IRC Section P2605.2 Thermal expansion tanks. 
Add new section P2605.2 to read: 
P2605.2 Thermal expansion tanks. A thermal expansion tank shall 
be supported in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions. 
Thermal expansion tanks shall not be supported by the piping that 
connects to such tanks. 
o. 
IRC Section P2603.3 Protection against corrosion. 
Delete section in its entirety and replace with:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
29 
IRC P2603.3 Protection against corrosion. Piping except for, for 
cast iron, ductile iron, and galvanized steel shall not be placed in 
direct contact with steel framing members. Piping shall not be 
placed in direct contact with concrete or cinder walls and floors, 
other masonry, and corrosive soil. Where sheathing is used to 
prevent direct contact, the sheathing shall have a thickness of not 
less than .025 inch (.64 mm). Where sheathing protects piping that 
penetrates concrete or masonry walls or floors, the sheathing shall 
be installed in a manner that allows movement of the piping within 
the sheathing. 
p. 
IRC Section P2705.1 General 
Add new exception to read: 
Exception for remodels only: Lavatory clearance from its center 
to any sidewall or partition may be reduced to a minimum of twelve 
inches. 
q. 
IRC P2706.1 General (waste receptors) 
Add new exception to read: 
Exception: Where equipment is installed in a crawl space, a waste 
receptor shall be allowed with an approved backwater valve 
installed. 
r. 
IRC Section P2708.5 Shower head location 
Add new section P2708.5 to read: 
P2708.5 Shower head location. Shower heads shall be so located 
on the sidewall of shower compartments or be arranged so the 
shower head does not discharge directly at the entrance to the 
compartment and the bather can adjust the valve prior to stepping 
into the shower spray. 
s. 
IRC Section P2717.3 Dishwasher drain 
Add new section to read: 
IRC Section P2717.3 Dishwasher drain. Dishwashers may drain 
into a standpipe complying with Section P2706.2 as shown in the 
following illustration. The standpipe shall be provided with an air 
break (with drain hose secured to the underside of the counter top) 
or air gap as shown in the illustration below.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
30 
 
 
t. 
IRC Section P2801.6 Required pan. 
Add new exception to read: 
Exception: Replacements for water heaters that did not have a 
pan previously installed due to code in force at the time of 
installation. 
u. 
IRC Section P2803.6.2 Collection of Relief Valve Discharge 
Add new section P2803.6.2 to read: 
P2803.6.2 Collection of Relief Valve Discharge. A means shall 
be provided to capture the discharge from a relief valve and convey 
it to the sanitary drainage system or exterior of the structure either 
by gravity or a pumped discharge. 
Exceptions: 
(1) 
Replacements for existing water heaters. 
2” sink drain

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
31 
(2) 
Where a water sensing device wired to a normally closed 
solenoid valve installed in the water supply piping to the 
heater, is placed within the water heater drain pan. 
v. 
IRC Section P2803.6.2.1 Pumped discharge of relief valve 
collection 
Add new Section P2803.6.2.1 to read: 
P2803.6.2.1 Pumped discharge of relief valve collection. Pumps 
used to discharge the clear water collection of relief valves shall 
have an operating temperature equal to or exceeding that of the 
relief valve discharge temperature and shall have a gpm rating 
equal to or greater than the discharge of the relief valve. 
w. 
IRC Section P2901.1 Potable water required 
Delete the last sentence of the section. 
x. 
IRC Section P2901.1.2.1 Signage required 
Delete the section in its entirety and replace with: 
Plumbing fixtures flushed with nonpotable water shall be identified 
with signage that reads as follows: 
“Nonpotable water is used to flush this fixture. CAUTION: 
NONPOTABLE WATER – DO NOT DRINK.” 
In addition to the required wordage, the pictograph shown in figure 
P2901.2.1 shall appear on the required signage. 
y. 
IRC New Section P2901.1.2.4 
Add new Section P2901.1.2.4 to read: 
Graywater used for toilet and urinal flushing shall be dyed with blue 
or green food grade vegetable dye and be visibly distinct from 
potable water. 
z. 
IRC Section P2901.2.2 Distribution pipe labeling and marking 
Delete the section verbiage and replace with: 
Nonpotable distribution piping shall be purple in color or the piping 
shall be installed with a purple identification tape or wrap the entire 
length of the piping and shall be embossed, or integrally stamped 
or marked, with the words: “CAUTION: NONPOTABLE WATER – 
DO NOT DRINK”.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
32 
aa. 
IRC Section P2902.5 Protection of potable water connections 
Add new subsection P2902.5.1.1 to read: 
Section P2902.5.1.1 Essentially nontoxic fluid conditioning 
chemical. 
When the conditioning chemical introduced is an essentially 
nontoxic transfer fluid the potable supplier to the boiler shall, at a 
minimum, be equipped with a backflow preventer with an 
intermediate atmospheric vent complying with ASSE 1012 or CSA 
B64.3. 
bb. 
IRC New Section P2902.5.6 Protection of potable water system 
Add new subsection P2902.5.6 to read: 
Section P2902.5.6 Connection to graywater system or reclaimed 
water system 
The potable water system connection to a graywater system or 
reclaimed water system must be protected against backflow by an 
air gap or reduced pressure principle backflow prevention 
assembly. 
cc. 
IRC Section P2903.9.1 Service valve. 
Delete the words "with provision for drainage such as a bleed orfice 
or installation of a separate drain valve" 
dd. 
IRC Section P2904 General 
Delete in its entirety and replace with: 
P2904.1 General. Where installed, residential fire sprinkler 
systems, or portions thereof, shall be in accordance with NFPA 13D 
or Section P2904, which shall be considered equivalent to NFPA 
13D. Section P2904 shall apply to multipurpose wet-pipe sprinkler 
systems that do not include the use of antifreeze. A multipurpose 
fire sprinkler system shall supply domestic water to both fire 
sprinklers and plumbing fixtures. A backflow preventer shall not be 
required to separate the sprinkler system from the water distribution 
system.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
33 
ee. 
IRC Section P2910 Graywater Recycling Systems 
Add new Figure P2910.4 Typical Graywater Collection system. 
(This figure is typical only, not a schematic) 
 
 
ff. 
IPC Section 2910.1 Scope 
Add a sentence to the end of the section saying: 
All plumbing systems utilizing nonpotable water reuse systems 
shall have a reduced pressure backflow preventer device installed 
at the water service entrance immediately downstream of the 
building water service shut off valve. 
gg. 
IRC Section P2910.2.2 Filtration Required Exception 
Modify section Exemption to read: 
P2910.2.2 Filtration Required. Nonpotable water utilized for water 
closet and urinal ﬂushing application shall be ﬁltered by a 100-
micron or ﬁne ﬁlter. 
Exception: Reclaimed water sources shall not be required to 
comply with these requirements. Graywater treatment systems 
installed in accordance with Section P2911.6.1 do not need to meet 
additional ﬁltration requirements.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
34 
hh. 
IRC Section P2910 Graywater recycling systems 
Add new ﬁgure Section 2910.5

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
35 
ii. 
IRC Section P2910 Graywater recycling systems 
Add New Figure Section 2910.6 
2910.6 Typical graywater system for disbursed subsurface irrigation 
system

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
36 
jj. 
IRC Section P2910 General 
Add new ﬁgure Section 2910.7 
2910.7 Typical graywater system for mulch basin subsurface 
irrigation

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
37 
kk. 
IRC Section 2910.9.3 Materials 
Add section Exemption to read: 
Exemption. Tanks are not required if the graywater use is 
comprised of only subsurface irrigation and flows into a mulch basin 
system, where the mulch basin volume is three times the 
anticipated average daily flow. 
ll. 
IRC Section 2911.5 Filtration 
Delete the section in its entirety and replace with: 
P2911.5.1 Filtration. Graywater used for dispersed subsurface 
irrigation system requires a cartridge filter. The cartridge filter must 
be a minimum of sixty mesh located between the storage tank and 
the irrigation system. If a pump is being used to pressurize the 
graywater distribution system the filter must be located after the 
pump. Filters shall be accessible for inspection and maintenance. 
Filters shall utilize a pressure gauge or other approved method to 
provide indication when a filter requires servicing or replacement. 
Filters shall be installed with shutoff valves immediately upstream 
and downstream to allow for isolation during maintenance. 
Exemption. Filtration is not required for mulch basin subsurface 
irrigation systems. 
mm. IRC Section P2911.7.6 Overflow 
Add a new Section P2911.7.6 that reads: 
P2911.7.6 Overflow. Storage tank for on-site nonpotable systems 
must include an overflow line without a shut off valve. The overflow 
line shall be connected to the sanitary sewer indirectly. The 
overflow line must be the same or larger diameter line than the tank 
influent line. The overflow line connected indirectly must be trapped 
to prevent the escape of gas vapors from the tank. 
nn. 
IRC Section P2911.7.4 Venting 
Add a new Section P2911.7.4 that reads: 
P2911.7.4 Venting. Storage tank for on-site nonpotable systems 
must be vented to the atmosphere or connected to the plumbing 
system vent piping. 
oo. 
IRC Section P2911.7.5 Draining of tanks

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
38 
Add a new Section P2911.7.5 that reads: 
P2911.7.5 Draining of tanks. Storage tank for on-site nonpotable 
systems must include a valved drain. The drain line shall be 
connected to the sanitary sewer either directly or indirectly. The 
tank drain line must be the same or larger diameter line than the 
tank influent line. 
pp. 
IRC Section P2911.8.1 Bypass valve 
Section P2911.8.1 System Bypass 
Delete the section verbiage and replace with: 
One three-way diverter valve listed and labeled to NSF 50 or other 
approved device shall be installed on collection piping upstream of 
any graywater treatment equipment, as applicable, to divert 
untreated on-site reuse sources to the sanitary sewer to allow 
servicing and inspection of the system. Bypass valves shall be 
installed downstream of fixture traps and vent connections. Bypass 
valves shall be marked to indicate the direction of flow, connection 
to graywater treatment works, storage tank and graywater 
subsurface irrigation system.. Bypass valves shall be installed in 
accessible locations. Two shutoff valves shall not be installed to 
serve as a bypass valve. In addition to the bypass valve a series of 
drainage fittings shall be installed in the collection piping upstream 
of the bypass valve in a configuration that will allow the graywater 
from the plumbing fixtures to automatically flow directly into the 
sanitary sewer system in the event the filter or other parts of the 
collection system become clogged to the point of not allowing the 
effluent free flow through the system. The overflow line connected 
to the sanitary sewer shall be equipped with a backwater valve. 
qq. 
IRC Section 3001.1 General 
Add exception 1: 
Exception 1: Floor drains or trench drains may be allowed to be 
daylighted or discharged to an approved alternative disposal 
system when written approval has been provided from the 
jurisdiction having authority. 
rr. 
IRC Section P3003.9.2 Solvent cementing 
Delete wording, “or other approved primer” and delete exception in 
its entirety. 
ss. 
IRC Table P3005.1 Fittings for changes in direction

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
39 
tt. 
IRC Section P3005.2.3 Building drain and building sewer junction. 
Add new sentence at the end of the section to read: 
When the cleanout is installed at the junction of the building drain 
and building sewer, It shall be an approved two way fitting with a 
single riser not to exceed 4 feet in depth or a two riser cleanout 
using back to back combination fittings of schedule 40 material. 
Cleanouts shall be installed and tested at underground or rough-in 
in accordance with Section 312.2. 
uu. 
IRC Section P3008.1 Where required (backwater valves) 
Delete section in its entirety and replace with: 
Backwater valves shall be installed where waste receptors are 
located in a crawl space for the purpose of receiving condensate 
discharge from equipment located in that crawl space. Refer to new 
exception for 802.4 
vv. 
IRC Section P3009 Graywater soil absorption systems 
Delete in its entirety. 
ww. 
IRC Section P3103.1.3 Protected vent terminal 
Change wording to read 4 inches instead of 2 inches. 
Section P3103.1.3 Where an open vent pipe terminates above a 
sloped roof and is covered by either a roof-mounted panel (such as 
a solar collector or photovoltaic panel mounted over the vent 
opening) or a roof element (such as an architectural feature or a 
decorative shroud), the vent pipe shall terminate not less than 4 
inches (102 mm) above the roof surface. 
xx. 
IRC Section P3103.2 Frost closure 
Delete in its entirety.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
40 
yy. 
IRC Section P3108.1 Horizontal wet vent permitted 
Add a new exception to read: 
Exception: Fixtures other than those considered to be bathroom 
group fixtures, of equivalent drainage fixture units, may be included 
in the wet vented section provided the total number of drainage 
fixture units does not exceed the total number included in two 
bathroom groups and the fixtures not considered bathroom fixtures 
are valued at one drainage fixture unit or less. 
3. 
Revisions and exceptions to the International Fuel Gas Code incorporated 
as the Colorado Fuel Gas Code 
a. 
IFGC Section 101.1 Title 
Delete in its entirety. 
b. 
IFGC Section 101.2.2 Piping Systems 
Delete the words “and maintenance” from the end of the last 
sentences. 
c. 
IFGC Section 101.2.4 Systems, appliances and equipment outside 
the scope. 
Delete 13 from the list. 
d. 
IFGC Section 303.3. Prohibited locations 
Delete the words “toilet rooms” from the section. 
e. 
IFGC Section 403.10.5 Welded joints 
Add new section 403.10.5 to read: 
403.10.5 Welded Joints. Welded joints shall be performed by a 
person holding a valid certificate of competency based on the 
requirements of the ANSI/ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, 
Section IX, Brazing and Welding Qualifications. Welded joints shall 
comply with ASTM 139. 
f. 
IFGC Section 404.14.1 Conduit with one end terminating outdoors 
Delete in its entirety. 
g. 
IFGC Section 405.3 Plastic Pipe

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
41 
New addition to read: 
3. The radius of the inner curve of such bends shall be not less 
than 25 times the inside diameter of the pipe or in accordance with 
the manufacturer's instructions. 
h. 
IFGC Section 406.1 Inspection, Testing, and Purging 
Add a new sentence to the end of the section reading: 
Inspection and pressure testing shall apply to all temporary 
installations connected to a primary or temporary fuel gas source, 
natural or LP gas, for the purpose of supplying temporary heat. 
i. 
IFGC Section 409.5.3 Located at manifold 
Delete in its entirety. 
j. 
IFGC 409.6 Shutoff valve for laboratories 
Add new subsection 409.6.1 to read 
409.6.1 Electric Solenoid Valve. A remotely located electric 
solenoid emergency shutoff valve may be used for compliance to 
Section 409.6, when all the following requirements are met. 
(1) 
The emergency control shutoff “panic button” shall be readily 
accessible, located within the laboratory space served, 
adjacent to the egress door from the space and shall be 
identified by approved signage stating “Gas Shutoff”. 
(2) 
The gas solenoid valve shall be a “normally closed” type 
valve with a manual reset. 
k. 
IFGC Section 411.1 Connecting appliances 
Add additional line (10). 
10. Gas turrets for use in school or laboratory science rooms can 
be considered an appliance and may be allowed to be connected 
by an approved appliance connector in accordance with ANSI 
Z21.24 that is installed downstream of a shutoff valve as approved 
in Section 409. 
l. 
IFGC Section 503.4.1 Plastic Piping, 
Add new sentence to the end of the section saying:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
42 
Where installed as an exhaust vent for a gas fired water heater, the 
new plastic pipe shall be tested with 5 psi air pressure or 10 ft. 
head water column at the time of inspection prior to being 
connected to the water heater. 
Engineered UL-1738 vent systems do not require the pressure test 
as long as they are properly installed per the manufacturer's 
instructions. 
4. 
Revisions and exceptions to the International Residential Code Chapter 
24 Fuel Gas incorporated as the Colorado Fuel Gas Code 
a. 
IRC Section G2414.10.5 Welded joints 
Add new section G2414.10.5 Welded joints to read: 
Welded joints. Welded joints shall be performed by a person 
holding a valid certificate of competency based on the requirements 
of the ANSI/ASME Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code, Section IX, 
Brazing and Welding Qualifications. Welded joints shall comply with 
ASTM 139. 
b. 
IRC 2415.14.1 Conduit with one end terminating outdoors 
Delete in its entirety. 
c. 
IRC Section G2420.5.3 (Shutoffs) Located at manifolds 
Delete in its entirety. 
d. 
IRC G2427.4.1 Plastic Piping, 
Add new sentence to the end of the section saying: 
Where installed as an exhaust vent for a gas fired water heater, the 
new plastic pipe shall be tested with 5 psi maximum air pressure at 
the time of inspection prior to being connected to the water heater.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
43 
1.3 
APPRENTICES REGISTRATION AND RECORDKEEPING 
A. 
Registration 
1. 
The Board may require the supervising plumbing contractor of a plumbing 
apprentice to provide information verifying the apprentice’s record of 
employment and practical experience, including but not limited to a written 
attestation from the responsible master plumber verifying that the 
apprentice has been performing plumbing work during any period the 
apprentice was not registered. Supervising plumbing contractor of 
apprentices shall cooperate with any request from the Board pursuant to 
this Rule and furnish such information or assistance as the Board may 
request. 
2. 
An individual that holds an active residential plumber’s license and is 
working on a commercial job site must be registered as an apprentice. 
3. 
An employer who fails to timely register an apprentice within 30 days or 
less of employment as required by section 12-155-108(2)(a), C.R.S., and 
this Rule shall be subject to disciplinary action pursuant to sections 12-
155-113(1) and 12-20-404, C.R.S. 
4. 
An employer who fails to inactivate an apprentice from their company’s 
registration within 30 days of termination of employment shall be subject 
to the same disciplinary action as Board Rule 1.3(A)(3) above. 
B. 
Recordkeeping. Plumbing contractors shall maintain employment records or 
work reports for their individuals  under their supervision in order to provide 
experience verification. Such records or reports shall accurately document the 
number of hours and months the individual performed plumbing work as defined 
by section 12-155-103, C.R.S., and should specifically reflect:. 
1. 
Exact dates of employment 
2. 
Number of hours and months of residential plumbing experience; and, 
3. 
Number of hours and months of commercial or industrial plumbing 
experience 
C. 
Plumbing Contractors shall provide an experience verification form prepared and 
furnished by the Board within 30 days of their termination or resignation, and 
upon request indicated in Board Rule 1.3(B). 
D. 
Exemption for Apprentice Required to Exam. Apprentices seeking exemption to 
the requirements of section 12-155-124(4), C.R.S., must meet the following 
criteria established in accordance with section 12-155-124(4)(a)(II), C.R.S., 
which requires circumstances that justify the exemption.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
44 
1. 
An apprentice deployed to serve in the United States Military in 
accordance with military orders may be granted exemption to the 
examination requirements of section 12-155-124(4), C.R.S. 
a. 
Apprentice must meet the examination attempt requirements within 
the statute. 
b. 
A request, including supporting evidence and documentation for 
Board consideration, must be submitted at least 15 days prior to 
deployment. 
(1) 
Acceptable evidence of deployment include but may not be 
limited to the following documentation that must clearly state 
the date and length of deployment, and be issued by the 
United States Military. 
(a) 
Copy of Deployment Orders; 
(b) 
Report or letter from a senior officer; and/or 
(c) 
Other military evidence of deployment. 
(2) 
Special consideration of timely submission may be given 
with evidence of short notice deployment. 
2. 
Exemption will be applied: 
a. 
When calculating the years of apprentice registration that requires 
an examination per the statute; 
b. 
For the actual time the apprentice is deployed and actively 
registered as an apprentice with the Board; and 
c. 
So that times of deployment that may disadvantage the apprentice 
may not be counted. 
E. 
Direct Supervision. Direct Supervision of apprentices is defined within Board 
Rules, sections 1.2(E)(1)(c) and (2)(c). 
1.4 
APPLICATIONS AND LICENSING 
A. 
Applications for License or Registrations. 
1. 
Submission. All applications for licensure or registrations shall be 
submitted to the Division of Professions and Occupations. Candidates 
must pass the required examination(s) before submitting an application to 
the Board with the required experience and education.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
45 
2. 
Incomplete Application. An application for a license by examination or 
endorsement or a registration submitted without all required fees and 
documentation will be considered incomplete. Incomplete applications will 
be retained for one year from the date originally received, after which 
applicants shall begin the process again including payment of the 
application fee. 
3. 
Documentation for Plumbing License. Applicants shall provide 
documented written evidence of all in state and out of state experience on 
experience verification forms prepared and furnished by the Board which 
shall include all of the following: 
a. 
Exact dates of employment. 
b. 
Breakdown of plumbing work performed in: 
(1) 
Commercial, residential and industrial; and, 
(2) 
Increments of hours and months. 
c. 
Signature of the master plumber for, or a signatory authority of, the 
plumbing contractor, or employer. 
d. 
If training and experiences were obtained all or in part from an 
accredited high school vocational technical training course, 
community college, or trade school program, a transcript from the 
accredited high school vocational technical training course, 
community college or trade school verifying completion of the 
program shall be submitted with the application. The program 
length shall be a minimum of two years. Such education may 
replace actual field experience under a licensed master as follows: 
one hour of classroom training equals one hour of on the job 
training up to a maximum of one year, with 2000 hours equaling 
one year. 
e. 
If training and experiences were obtained all or in part from military 
training in plumbing work, detail and submit such for evaluation with 
the application. Such experience may replace actual field 
experience under a licensed master as follows: one month for every 
six months' training or experience up to a maximum of one year. 
f. 
The hours of practical experience required to qualify for licensure 
are: 
(1) 
Residential Plumber 3,400 
(2) 
Journeyworker Plumber 6,800

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
46 
(3) 
Master Plumber 8,500 
g. 
Applicants cannot verify their own experience. 
4. 
Documentation for Water Conditioning Installer, Principal, or 
Contractor. Any applicant for registration shall furnish evidence upon 
request as to his or her training and experience to qualify for registration. 
a. 
Water Conditioning Installer. 
(1) 
Any applicant for a water conditioning installer registration 
shall possess the following qualifications and experience: 
(a) 
Knowledge of water quality, water quality issues, and 
problems common to water sources. 
(b) 
Knowledge of the analysis and treatment of water for 
impurities, water softening, drinking water options, 
reverse osmosis and water filtration. 
(c) 
Knowledge of common water treatment system 
operations, including water softening, reverse 
osmosis, and water filtration. 
(d) 
Knowledge of hydraulics fundamentals including 
plumbing distribution system operations, pressure 
loss and cross connections, effects on public safety, 
flow rates, and code requirements for safe drainage. 
(e) 
Knowledge of recommended practices, including legal 
and ethical considerations in the water treatment 
industry. 
(f) 
Knowledge of disinfection methods, including 
standard disinfectants and methods, water 
contamination problems, UV and chemical 
disinfection systems, disinfection of private water 
sources, and final barrier water treatment. 
(g) 
Knowledge of water analysis fundamentals including 
selection of tests for analysis, reading and interpreting 
water analyses, and conducting and interpreting water 
tests. 
(h) 
Experience with water conditioning installation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
47 
(i) 
Knowledge of general installation principles including 
POE and POU water treatment systems, including 
related safety considerations. 
(2) 
Any applicant for a water conditioning installer registration 
shall possess and maintain an active Certified Installer (CI) 
certification from the Water Quality Association or an 
equivalent certification as approved by the Plumbing Board. 
b. 
Water Conditioning Principal. 
(1) 
Any applicant for a water conditioning principal registration 
shall possess the following qualifications and experience: 
(a) 
All items listed in the previous subsection 
1.4(A)(5)(a)(1) of these Rules. 
(b) 
Knowledge of common water problems including: 
nitrates, bacterial contamination, 
iron/manganese/hydrogen sulfide, and arsenic. 
(c) 
Ability to design water treatment systems to address 
regional water issues such as Endocrine Disruptors 
and Pharmaceuticals, Radium/Barium/Radioactive 
Decay, and Tannins. 
(d) 
Knowledge of methods to calculate pressure loss in 
distribution systems. 
(2) 
Principal. Any applicant for a water conditioning principal 
registration shall possess and maintain an active Certified 
Installer (CI) certification and an active Certified Water 
Specialist (CWS) or Master Water Specialist (MWS) 
certification from the Water Quality Association or an 
equivalent certification or certifications as approved by the 
Plumbing Board. 
c. 
Water Conditioning Contractor. Any applicant for a water 
conditioning contractor must be or employ full time a water 
conditioning principal.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
48 
d. 
Water Conditioning Contractor's Loss of Water Conditioning 
Principal. A water conditioning contractor that, for any reason, loses 
the services of the water conditioning principal will be allowed 
twenty days in which to hire another water conditioning principal. If 
another water conditioning principal has not been hired during that 
period, the water conditioning contractor registration will be placed 
into a “Need WC Principal Hire-Cannot Practice” status until such 
time as a principal has been hired, and the appropriate fee paid. 
B. 
Licenses and Registration Issuance. 
1. 
Issuance. Residential, journeyworker or master plumber licenses will be 
issued upon successful passing of the respective examination and 
meeting the qualifications within Title 12 of Article 155, C.R.S. Water 
conditioning registrations shall be issued upon application approval based 
on proper documentation as outlined in 1.4(A)(4) of these Rules. 
a. 
By endorsement. Licensees from another state may be eligible for 
licensure by endorsement providing that the applicant meets the 
requirements of section 12-155-116, C.R.S., and all of the following 
conditions: 
(1) 
Completion of a state or federally approved or registered 
apprenticeship program, or completion of the required years 
and type of experience for the comparable license. 
(2) 
Successful completion of a comparable state plumbing 
examination based on the current or previous edition of the 
plumbing code adopted by the Board. 
(3) 
Currently holds an active license by the endorsing state. 
C. 
Disapproval 
1. 
Reconsideration. An applicant requesting reconsideration of a Board 
action concerning a disapproval of an application or license by 
endorsement or requesting a personal interview before the Board, shall 
submit the request in writing, accompanied by additional information or 
documentation. This request shall be submitted within forty-five days of 
the date on which the Board made the decision. The Board may not 
consider requests filed thereafter. 
D. 
[Repealed eff.06/14/2020] 
E. 
Renewal and Reinstatement (Effective July 1, 2020) 
1. 
Renewal.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
49 
a. 
A licensee or registrant shall have a sixty-day grace period after the 
expiration of the license or registration to renew such license or 
registration without having to submit a reinstatement application. 
During this grace period a delinquency fee will be charged for late 
renewals. 
b. 
A licensee or registrant who does not renew his or her license or 
registration shall be ineligible to practice until such license or 
registration is reinstated. If the licensee or registrant practices with 
an expired license or registration, the Board may impose 
disciplinary actions. 
2. 
Reinstatement. An expired license or registration may be reinstated by 
submitting a reinstatement application, paying the current reinstatement 
fee, and meet the appropriate requirements below. 
a. 
Expired for More Than Sixty Days But Less Than Two Years. If the 
license or registration has expired for more than sixty days but less 
than two years, the applicant must provide evidence of completion 
of continuing education complaint with requirements of Board Rule 
1.4(E)(3), since applicant’s most recent licensing event (original; 
license, renewal, or reinstatement) preceding the application for 
reinstatement, of eight hours of continuing education,  complaint 
with requirements of Board Rule 1.4(E)(3). 
b. 
Expired for More Than Two Years. If the license has been expired 
for more than two years, pursuant to section 12-155-112(2)(b)(II), 
C.R.S. the applicant must demonstrate competency to practice by 
any of the following: 
(1)  
Satisfactorily passing the State plumbing examination; 
(2)  
Provide a verification of an active, substantially equivalent 
license in good standing from another state and proof of 
active practice in that state for the year immediately prior to 
the date of the reinstatement application; 
(3) 
Holding an active Colorado plumbing license that is more 
advanced that the license to be reinstated; or 
(4) 
By other means that may be approved by the Board. 
c. 
In the case of Water Conditioning Installers and Water Conditioning 
Principals, registrants shall re-affirm that their certifications per 
board Rule 1.4(A)(5) are current and active. 
3. 
Continuing Education Requirements

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
50 
a. 
Statutory Basis. Pursuant to section 12-155-112(3)(b) C.R.S, the 
Board shall adopt rules establishing continuing education 
requirements and standards that a licensee shall demonstrate in 
order to renew or reinstate a license. Such requirements and 
standards must include course work related to the code, including 
core competencies as determined by the Board. 
b. 
Basis of Requirements. As established by the Colorado General 
Assembly, the regulatory authority of the Board is to establish 
continuing education standards to renew, reinstate, or reactivate a 
license and the documentation necessary to demonstrate 
compliance. 
c. 
Definitions 
(1) 
Core Competencies: Core Competencies are technical and 
professional subjects, related to the practice of plumbing 
work, which the Board deems necessary to safeguard the 
public. 
(2) 
Inactive Status: A licensee is not required to comply with 
continuing education requirements to renew a license in 
inactive status. An individual whose license is in inactive 
status is prohibited by law from practicing as a licensed 
plumber. 
(3) 
Code: Code for the safe installation of plumbing installation, 
plumbing materials, conservation, medical gas, sanitary 
drainage systems, and solar plumbing. 
(4) 
Attesting Providers List: A publicly available list containing 
continuing education providers that have attested their 
courses and instructors meet all the requirements of Board 
Rule 1.4(E)(3)(d) and 1.4(E)(3)(e). Credit may be earned by 
a licensee by completing a course from a provider on this 
list. However, licensee are responsible for ensuring that the 
providers they choose meet the continuing education 
requirements in Board Rule 1.4(E)(3).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
51 
d. 
Requirements 
(1) 
After the first renewal or reinstatement, in order to renew or 
reinstate a plumbing license, an applicant must provide 
evidence of completion of eight (8) hours of continuing 
education, as defined in section 1.4(E)(3) herein, for each 
year since the applicant’s most recent licensing event (i.e., 
original license, renewal, or reinstatement). The continuing 
education hours must be selected from among the Core 
Competencies below in any combination, except that, within 
every twenty-four month period, a minimum of four (4) 
continuing education hours must be related to codes as 
defined in Board Rule 1.2 and a maximum of two (2) hours 
can be related to safety training: 
(a) 
Cross connection and backflow prevention 
(b) 
Fixtures, Faucets and Fixture Fittings 
(c) 
Indirect/Special Waste 
(d) 
Industry Product Training 
(e) 
Non-potable Water Systems 
(f) 
Plumbing Administration 
(g) 
Residential Fire Sprinkler Systems 
(h) 
Sanitary Drainage 
(i) 
Special Piping (Medical Gas) 
(j) 
Storm Drainage 
(k) 
System piping and components 
(l) 
Traps, Interceptors and Separators 
(m) 
Vents - DVM 
(n) 
Water Heaters 
(o) 
Water Supply and Distribution 
(p) 
Safety related to the plumbing industry.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
52 
(2) 
Colorado Plumbing Code. In addition to the requirements of 
1.4(E)(3)(d)(1), licensees must make attestation upon 
renewal that they have read the current Colorado Plumbing 
Code in Board Rule 1.2. 
(3) 
Continuing education credits will only apply to each twelve 
month period after the later of the last date of renewal or 
reinstatement 
(4) 
Licensees shall cooperate with the Board to determine 
compliance with continuing education requirements. 
Pursuant to section 12-155-112(2)(c), C.R.S. continuing 
education requirements within section 12-155-112(3)(a), 
C.R.S. and Rule 1.4(E)(3) do not apply to water conditioning 
installers or water conditioning principles, 
e. 
Attesting Providers. Continuing education providers must be listed 
with the Board and attest that their courses and instructors meet 
the continuing education requirements of Board Rule sections 1.4 
(E)(3)(d)(1) through (4), The list of Attesting Providers with expire 
on December 31st of the final year of the current code cycle. 
(1) 
The Board has sole discretion to accept providers that have 
attested. 
(2) 
Providers. Providers may attest that they meet the CE 
requirements if their courses and instructors meet all the 
requirements of Board Rule 1.4(E)(3)(e)(4). 
(a) 
As proof of course completion, the Board will accept a 
certificate of completion from the course provider. 
(b) 
Certificates of completion shall not be issued to 
attendees unless the course is successfully 
completed. Certificates of completion shall include all 
of the following elements: 
(i) 
Name of attendee; 
(ii) 
Attendee’s Colorado plumber’s license 
number; 
(iii) 
Date of course; 
(iv) 
Provider name and approval number; 
(v) 
Course title;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
53 
(vi) 
Instructor name; and 
(vii) 
Number hours of continuing education credit 
earned. 
(3) 
Courses. Criteria for courses from Attesting Providers shall 
include the following: 
(a) 
Each course shall cover a minimum of one core 
competency, as listed in Board Rule 1.4(E)(3)(d)(1). 
Course credit will apply to only one core competency 
per course. 
(b) 
All online courses or webinars shall be interactive. 
Each course must have capabilities in place to ensure 
active participation and demonstrate comprehension 
a minimum of once per hour, and fast-forward must 
be disabled. 
(4) 
Instructors. Courses must be taught by instructors with the 
following qualifications: 
(a) 
Instructors must be sponsored by the Attesting 
Provider. 
(b) 
Instructor’s background and experience must meet at 
least one of the following criteria. 
(i) 
Hold a minimum of a Colorado master 
plumber’s license or journeyworker plumber’s 
license (or equivalent) plus a minimum of five 
years of journeyworker plumber field 
experience; 
(ii) 
Community college or vo-tech instructor as 
approved by the Board; 
(iii) 
Plumbing continuing education instructor from 
other areas as approved by the Board; or, 
(iv) 
Instructor shall provide documentation of 
background and experience as requested by 
the Board. 
(5) 
Once attesting they meet the qualifications as an Attesting 
Provider, providers will be placed on an Attesting Provider 
list.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
54 
(6) 
The Board has sole discretion to accept or reject any 
continuing education credit earned by a licensee from a 
provider that is, or is not, on the list. 
(7) 
The Board has discretion to remove providers from the list. 
(8) 
It is the responsibility of the licensee to ensure the continuing 
education obtained meets the requirements of this section 
1.4(3)(E). 
f. 
Recordkeeping 
(1) 
The licensee shall track and document completed continuing 
education in a process approved by the Board. 
(2) 
The licensee shall retain documentation for a minimum of six 
years. 
g. 
Audits 
(1) 
The Board may conduct audits of continuing education for 
verification of compliance with these requirements at any 
time. The Board may, at its discretion, disallow any 
continuing education course completed by a licensee that 
was offered by a provider on the Attesting Provider list. 
(2) 
A licensee shall provide all documentation requested for 
audit within thirty days of the request. 
h. 
Multiple Licenses. A licensee holding multiple licenses issued by 
the Board shall complete continuing education requirements for the 
most advanced license held. Completion of continuing education 
requirements for the most advanced license shall satisfy the 
requirements for all lesser licenses. 
4. 
Inactive License Status and Reactivation 
a. 
Inactive License. Pursuant to section 12-20-203, C.R.S., any 
licensee may apply to the Board to transfer his or her license to 
inactive status. Such application shall be in the form and manner 
designated by the Board. The holder of an inactive license shall not 
be required to comply with continuing education requirements for 
renewal so long the license remains inactive. 
(1) 
Each holder of an inactive license shall renew once every 
three years with the Board in the same manner as active 
license holders and pay a fee pursuant to section 12-155-
105(1)(d), C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
55 
(2) 
During such time as a license remains in an inactive status, 
the licensee shall not perform any acts restricted to active 
licensed plumbers. Such practice may be grounds for 
revocation. 
b. 
Reactivation of Inactive License. An inactive license may be 
reactivated by submitting the proper application, paying the current 
reactivation fee, and meeting the appropriate requirements below. 
(1) 
Inactive for Less Than Three Years. To reactivate a license 
that has been inactive for less than three years, the applicant 
must provide evidence of completion, within the three years 
immediately preceding the application for reinstatement, of 
twenty-four hours of continuing education, as defined in 
Board Rule 1.4(e)(3) 
(2) 
Inactive for More Than Three Years. Pursuant to section 12-
155-112(2)(a), C.R.S., a licensee whose license has been 
inactive for more than three years must demonstrate 
competency to practice by any of the following: 
(a) 
Satisfactorily pass the state plumbing examination. 
(b) 
Provide a verification of an active, substantially 
equivalent license in good standing from another state 
and proof of active practice in that state for the year 
immediately prior to the date of the reinstatement 
application; 
(c) 
Holding an active Colorado plumbing license that is 
more advanced that the license to be reactivated; or 
(d) 
By other means that may be approved by the Board. 
(3) 
Practicing with an Inactive License. Practicing plumbing work 
with a license in inactive status shall constitute practice 
without an active license and, therefore, may be grounds for 
injunctive or disciplinary action, up to and including 
revocation. 
5. 
Registered Plumbing and Water Conditioning Contractors with expired 
permits shall not have their contractor registrations renewed until such 
time as all expired permits are cleared or as otherwise allowed by the 
Board. 
F. 
Pumping Equipment License

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
56 
License required. Any individual licensed as a residential plumber, 
journeyworker plumber, or master plumber under Title 12, Article 155 of the 
Colorado Revised Statutes who intends to install, alter, or repair “pumping 
equipment”, as defined by section 37-91-102(13), C.R.S., shall first apply for and 
obtain licensure with the Water Well Construction and Pump Installation 
Contractors Board prior to commencing any such activity. Failure to comply with 
the licensure requirements set forth herein shall be, if proven, a violation of 
sections 12-155-113(1)(b) and 12- 20-404, C.R.S. 
(“Pumping equipment” means any pump or related equipment used or intended 
for use in withdrawing or obtaining groundwater, including, but not limited to, well 
seals, pitless adapters, and other safeguards to protect the groundwater from 
contamination and any waterlines up to and including the pressure tank and any 
coupling appurtenant thereto.) 
G. 
Requirement to Carry Documentation. Any licensed water conditioning 
registrant working as a plumber, apprentice, or registered individual shall be 
required to carry on his or her person the appropriate license, temporary work 
permit, or registration. 
H. 
Residential Plumber on Commercial Job. Residential Plumbers must maintain 
an apprentice registration when working on commercial jobs and be supervised 
accordingly. 
I. 
Plumbing Contractor's Loss of Responsible Master. A plumbing contractor 
that, for any reason, loses the services of the responsible master plumber will be 
allowed twenty days in which to hire another master plumber. If another master 
plumber has not been hired during that period, the plumbing contractor 
registration will be placed into a “Need Master Hire-Cannot Practice” status until 
such time as a master has been hired, and the appropriate fee paid. 
J. 
Termination or Separation of Apprentice. Plumbing contractors shall notify the 
Board within thirty days after the termination or separation of a plumbing 
apprentice. 
K. 
Apprentice Information File. It shall be the responsibility of the apprentice to file 
and keep current contact information with the Board. Notification by any manner 
approved by the Board is acceptable but the online registration system is 
preferred. 
L. 
Notice of Change of Address 
1. 
A licensee or registrant shall inform the Board in a clear, explicit, and 
unambiguous written statement or through the Board’s secure online 
system (as available) of any name, address, telephone, or email change 
within thirty days of the change. The Board will not change the licensee or 
registrant information without explicit notification from the licensee or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
57 
registrant. Notification by any manner approved by the Board is 
acceptable. 
a. 
The Division of Professions and Occupations maintains one contact 
address for each licensee or registrant, regardless of the number of 
licenses or registrations the licensee or registrant may hold. 
b. 
All communications will be sent to the address on record for each 
licensee or registrant. Address change requests to route specific 
communications (i.e., confidential communications) to a separate 
address are not accepted. 
2. 
The Board requires one of the following forms of documentation to change 
the name or correct the social security number or individual taxpayer 
identification number of a licensee or registrant: 
a. 
Marriage license; 
b. 
Divorce decree; 
c. 
Court order; 
d. 
Documentation from the Internal Revenue Service verifying the 
licensee’s valid individual taxpayer identification number; or 
e. 
A driver’s license or social security card with a second form of 
identification may be acceptable at the discretion of the Division of 
Professions and Occupations. 
M. 
Advertising. Registered plumbing contractors or water conditioning contractors 
shall not advertise in any manner by any name, including DBA’s, other than the 
registered company name on record with the Department of Regulatory 
Agencies. 
N. 
Requirements for Displaying Registration and License 
1. 
On and after July 1, 2025, plumbing contractors are required to display 
their plumbing contractor registration number and the license number of 
their master plumber on their vehicles, billing materials, bid sheets, and 
website pursuant to section 12-155-125, C.R.S. The purpose of these 
rules is to ensure transparency and accountability among plumbing 
contractors by requiring the display of relevant registration and license 
information wherever public interaction occurs. Compliance with the 
requirements includes: 
a. 
Company Vehicles

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
58 
(1) 
All company owned vehicles, or any vehicle used for the 
company’s business purposes for any length of time must 
display the plumbing contractor’s registration number and 
the company’s master plumber’s license number issued by 
the Board. 
(2) 
The registration and license numbers must be prominently 
displayed in at least two locations on the vehicle. 
(3) 
The registration and license numbers must be readable, and 
the lettering and numbering must be least two inches in 
height. 
b. 
Bid Sheets 
(1) 
All bid forms must include the registration and license 
numbers. 
(2) 
For bid forms that are provided to the public by a general 
contractor, the plumbing contractor must ensure the 
registration and license numbers are: 
(a) 
Entered onto the general contractor’s bid form; or, 
(b) 
Within a coversheet the plumbing contractor submits 
to the general contractor to be provided to the public. 
(3) 
The registration and license numbers should appear on the 
cover page or at the top of the first page. 
c. 
Billing Materials 
(1) 
Plumbing contractor invoices, receipts, and other billing 
documents must include the registration and license 
numbers. 
(2) 
The registration and license numbers should be placed near 
the contractor's contact information. 
d. 
Websites 
(1) 
The registration and license numbers must be displayed 
prominently on the homepage of the company website. 
(2) 
The registration and license numbers should also appear on 
the “Contact Us” and “About Us” pages to ensure visibility.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
59 
(3) 
Any plumbing contractor advertising on any website, 
including social media, shall also display the required 
registration and license numbers. 
e. 
Plumbing contractors must ensure all required displays are updated 
in the event of changes to the company’s plumbing contractor 
number or master plumber’s license number within 90 days. 
1.5 
EXAMINATIONS 
A. 
Identification. The applicant shall present positive photo identification in order to 
be admitted to the examination area. 
B. 
Proprietary Information. The content and answers to examinations for licensure 
or renewal administered by the Board are proprietary property. Licensees and 
registrants shall not disclose, or offer to disclose any portion of the examinations 
to others. Licensees and registrants may be subject to disciplinary action by the 
Board should they disclose, or offer to disclose, sell or otherwise distribute the 
content and/or answers for any examinations administered by the Board. 
C. 
Results. Examination results will be provided in writing to each examinee. 
Results will not be given in any other manner. Consistent with widely accepted 
testing practices, applicants who pass the examination will be given their results 
in a pass/fail format. 
D. 
Review. Examinations shall not be subject to review by applicants. 
E. 
The Board designates the Division as its authorized agent in order to manage the 
administration of examination(s). 
1.6 
PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS 
A. 
Permits 
1. 
Permit Required. A permit and inspections shall be required for all 
plumbing, fuel gas piping work, water conditioning equipment installation 
or manufactured home hookup as described in the Title 12, Article 155, 
C.R.S. and/or the Colorado Plumbing Code or Colorado Fuel Gas Code, 
either through the Board or the Local Authority Having Jurisdiction. 
2. 
Issuance. Plumbing, fuel gas piping, water conditioning equipment or 
manufactured home hookup permits shall be issued in the name of the 
qualified applicant or registered contractor performing the work prior to the 
commencement of any work being undertaken. 
a. 
Qualified applicant. A qualified applicant able to purchase a 
permit for inspection of a manufactured home hook up shall be a

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
60 
“registered installer” of manufactured homes as defined by Part 33 
of Article 32 of Title 24, C.R.S. 
3. 
Fraudulent Information. Any permit issued as a result of fraudulent or 
incorrect information supplied on the application shall be cancelled. 
4. 
Double Fee. Any work commencing prior to the purchase of a permit is 
subject to twice the prescribed permit fee. 
5. 
Stop Work Order 
a. 
Notice to owner. Upon notice from the plumbing inspector that 
work on any building or structure is being installed contrary to the 
provisions of this code or in an unsafe and dangerous manner, 
such work shall be immediately stopped. The stop work order shall 
be in writing and shall be given to the owner of the property 
involved, or to the owner’s agent or to the person doing the work, or 
posted at the job site and shall state the conditions under which 
work will be permitted to resume. 
b. 
Unlawful continuance. Any person who shall continue any work in 
or about the structure after having been served with a stop work 
order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to 
remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to penalties 
as prescribed by this article. 
6. 
Moved Buildings. Moved buildings with a pre-existing plumbing and/or 
fuel gas system 
a. 
New potable water supply and sanitary system may be connected 
upon written verification to the Board from a plumbing contractor 
that the existing system presents no hazard to life, health, or 
property. A permit and inspection are required to witness proper 
connections are made. 
b. 
Prior to connecting an existing gas piping system to a new gas 
supply, a permit must be obtained, a pressure test performed, and 
an inspection must be approved. 
c. 
Any new plumbing or gas piping system installed in a moved 
building shall require a permit and inspections according to the 
codes and amendments enforced at the time the permit is obtained. 
7. 
Temporary Buildings. Temporary buildings used by the public shall 
incorporate sanitary facilities and potable water in accordance with the 
Colorado Plumbing Code. Permits and inspections are required. 
B. 
Inspections

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
61 
1. 
How Conducted. Inspections shall be conducted according to Section 
107 (IPC, IFGC) and Section P2503 (IRC) as adopted into the Colorado 
Plumbing Code or Colorado Fuel Gas Code. 
2. 
Requirements for inspections. Persons requesting inspections shall 
provide: 
a. 
Access to the inspection area during the reasonable working hours 
(i.e., Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.). 
b. 
Ladders for access to inspection areas such as roofs and/or deep 
crawl spaces. 
c. 
An approved set of design plans for commercial and school jobs 
shall be located at the job site. 
3. 
Inspection Categories. Prior to requesting an inspection, the installation 
to be inspected shall be complete and under test by the following 
categories: 
a. 
Plumbing 
(1) 
Underground plumbing (all drain, waste, vent, and water 
piping below grade). 
(2) 
Rough in plumbing (all drain, waste, vent, and water 
piping, valves above grade). 
(3) 
Final plumbing (all plumbing fixtures installed with hot and 
cold running water). 
b. 
Gas piping 
(1) 
Rough gas piping (all piping shall be installed and under 
the prescribed air test). 
(2) 
Underground installation (any underground piping after the 
point of delivery by the purveyor). 
(3) 
Final gas piping inspection (all gas appliance shutoff 
outlets shall be installed, capped or plugged, unless 
connected to a properly vented gas burning appliance).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
62 
4. 
Incomplete Installations. Installations that are incomplete when the 
inspector arrives may be subject to a re-inspection fee. 
Exception: Large projects may have partial inspections in designated 
areas as needed to keep projects within a time schedule. All portions of 
the installation must be completed within the designated area of 
inspection. 
5. 
Reinspection Fees. A reinspection fee may be assessed at the discretion 
of the inspector for reasons including, but not limited to, the following: 
a. 
The job is not ready for an inspection and an extra trip is required 
for the inspector (a job with multiple code violations may be 
considered “not ready” by the inspector). 
b. 
Corrections have not been made to all code violations cited from 
previous inspection. 
c. 
No access to the job site for reasons including but not limited to; 
locked gate or door, snow not plowed, no escort into an occupied 
structure, etc. (inspectors may not enter an occupied residence 
without an escort at least eighteen years of age or older). 
d. 
Hazardous construction site as determined by the inspector or 
OSHA guidelines (may include loose dogs, etc.) 
e. 
Address not posted so as to be visible from the street or road. 
f. 
Improper directions to jobsite given on permit or inspection 
requests. 
6. 
Reinspection. A reinspection shall not be performed until the reinspection 
fee has been paid. 
7. 
Requests. An inspection request will only be accepted from the permit 
owner or their agent. 
8. 
Provide services. A utility purveyor shall not provide service to any 
structure required to have gas inspections required by section 12-155-
120(1), C.R.S., without proof of approval. Approval shall be indicated by 
the presence of a “Blue Tag” affixed to the gas piping system at the point 
of utility connection. Approval may also be granted verbally or in writing by 
the inspector or his/her supervisor.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
63 
1.7 
ENFORCEMENT 
A. 
Knowledge of Violation. Licensees and registrants having knowledge of, or 
involvement in, any alleged violation of Title 12, Article 155, C.R.S., or Board 
Rules, shall cooperate with any investigation initiated by the Board and furnish 
such information or assistance as may be requested. 
B. 
Reporting Felony Convictions 
1. 
A licensee or registrant, as defined in sections 12-155-103(3), (4), (9), 
(10), and (13), C.R.S., including but not limited to registered plumbing 
apprentices, registered plumbing contractors, or licensed plumbers 
(residential, journeyworker, and master) shall inform the Board, in a 
manner set forth in this Rule, within forty- five days of the conviction of the 
licensee or registrant of a felony under the laws of any state or of the 
United States. 
2. 
The conviction of the licensee or registrant of a felony under the laws of 
any state or of the United States is grounds for discipline pursuant to 
section 12-155-113(1)(f), C.R.S. 
3. 
For purposes of this Rule, a “conviction” includes: 
a. 
A guilty verdict; 
b. 
A plea of guilty accepted by the court; or 
c. 
A plea of nolo contendere (no contest) accepted by the court. 
4. 
The notice to the Board shall include the following information: 
a. 
The court; 
b. 
The jurisdiction; 
c. 
The case name; 
d. 
The case number; and 
e. 
A description of the matter or a copy of the indictment or charges. 
5. 
The licensee or registrant shall inform the Board of the following 
information within forty-five days of each such occurrence: 
a. 
The imposition of sentence for a felony conviction; and 
b. 
The completion of all terms of a sentence for a felony conviction.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
64 
6. 
The licensee or registrant notifying the Board may submit a written 
statement with any notice under this Rule to be included in the registrant 
or licensee records. 
7. 
This Rule shall apply to any conviction or plea as described in Rule 
1.7(B)(3). 
C. 
Citations 
1. 
Forms. The citation form will be completed by the state plumbing 
inspector or by the Board. Citations shall be served by certified mail, in 
person by a State plumbing inspector, or by waiver of personal service. 
Personal service provided by the plumbing inspector shall be verified by 
affidavit. The Program Director will approve the completed and served 
citation. The Board maintains the discretion to dismiss the citation at any 
time. 
2. 
Response. The citation form shall direct the recipient to respond in one of 
the following ways within ten working days after service of the citation: 
a. 
Pay the fine; 
b. 
Submit a written request to negotiate a stipulated settlement 
agreement with the Program Director; or 
c. 
Submit a written request for a formal administrative hearing. 
3. 
Fines. If one of the following actions is not taken by the citation recipient 
within ten working days following service of the citation, recipient will be 
deemed to have failed to comply with the citation: 
a. 
Full payment of the fine; 
b. 
Written request for negotiation of a stipulated settlement 
agreement; or 
c. 
Written request for a formal administrative hearing. Reasonable 
attorney fees and costs may be assessed by the Board when taking 
formal action to collect fines. A citation offense that is more than 
four years old will not be considered by the Board when 
determining disciplinary action.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
65 
4. 
Negotiations. All requests and explanation for negotiation of a stipulated 
settlement agreement shall be submitted to the Program Director or 
designee in writing and may include information in mitigation of the 
violation. Inspectors shall not negotiate settlements or accept payments of 
fines resulting from citations. The date the request for negotiation of a 
stipulated settlement agreement is received by the Program Director 
constitutes the submittal date. After reviewing the requested settlement 
information, the Program Director has the option to authorize any of the 
following actions: 
a. 
Reduce the fine; 
b. 
Arrange a payment schedule for the fine; 
c. 
Permit a personal appearance before the Board; 
d. 
Refer the matter to the Board. 
5. 
Termination of negotiations. Negotiations may terminate for reasons 
including but not limited to: 
a. 
The recipient admits to committing the violation; 
b. 
The recipient does not conduct settlement negotiations timely and 
in writing; 
c. 
The recipient does not present reasonable mitigating or extenuating 
information in writing; 
d. 
The Program Director determines the settlement negotiations are 
not being conducted in good faith or are being conducted for the 
purpose of delay; 
e. 
It appears unlikely the parties will reach a negotiated resolution; 
f. 
The recipient has prior violations that need to be brought to the 
Board's attention prior to attempting settlement negotiations. 
6. 
Stipulation Agreement. A stipulated settlement agreement shall be 
signed and dated by the Program Director and the citation recipient. The 
stipulated settlement agreement shall be approved by the Board to 
become final and shall contain an admission of the violation(s), unless 
good cause exists, in the Program Director's discretion, to omit one or 
more admissions. A stipulated settlement agreement shall be considered 
a violation for the purpose of determining the fine amount of subsequent 
violations.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
66 
7. 
Formal Hearing. A written request from the citation recipient to proceed to 
a formal hearing may be submitted at any time during settlement 
negotiations. If the negotiations are subsequently deemed futile, the 
citation recipient shall be notified that payment of the fine or request for a 
formal administrative hearing shall be submitted within ten calendar days. 
Written settlement information may be used against the licensee, 
registrant, or applicant respondent at the hearing when unsuccessful 
settlement negotiations proceed to a formal administrative hearing. 
8. 
Attorney General Assistance. The Board or Program Director may 
request that the Attorney General assist with settlement negotiations when 
the citation recipient retains an attorney for assistance during the 
stipulated settlement negotiations. 
9. 
Hearings. Hearings shall be conducted by an administrative law judge at 
the Office of Administrative Courts. The citation recipient may be 
represented at the hearing by counsel of his or her choosing. Hearings 
shall be conducted in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, 
Title 24, Article 4, C.R.S. 
a. 
Board action. At the formal administrative hearing, the Board may 
pursue the maximum fine allowed by statute. At the formal 
administrative hearing, the Board may also pursue any other 
disciplinary sanctions such as revocation, suspension, or probation. 
D. 
The following is the current fine schedule adopted by the Board pursuant to 
section 12-155-123(2), C.R.S. 
 
Violation 
Statutory/Rule 
Provision
1st 
2nd 
3rd 
Engaging in the business, 
trade, or calling of a 
residential plumber without a 
12-155-108(1) 
12-155-113(1)(a) 
12-155-113(1)(o) 
$150 
$375 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day 
Engaging in the business, 
trade or calling of a 
journeyworker plumber 
without a license
12-155-108(1) 
12-155-113(1)(a) 
12-155-113(1)(o) 
$225 
$600 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day 
Engaging in the business, 
trade or calling of a master 
plumber without a license 
12-155-108(1) 
12-155-113(1)(a) 
12-155-113(1)(o) 
$300 
$600 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day 
Engaging in the business, 
trade, or calling of a 
registered water conditioning 
installer without being 
12-155-108(1) 
12-155-113(1)(a) 
12-155-113(1)(o) 
$150 
$375 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
67 
Violation 
Statutory/Rule 
Provision
1st 
2nd 
3rd 
Engaging in the business, 
trade or calling of a 
registered water conditioning 
principal without being 
12-155-108(1) 
12-155-113(1)(a) 
12-155-113(1)(o) 
$225 
$600 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day 
Engaging in the business, 
trade or calling of a 
registered water conditioning 
contractor without being
12-155-108(1) 
12-155-113(1)(a) 
12-155-113(1)(o) 
$300 
$600 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day 
Failure of a plumbing 
contractor to register an 
apprentice
12-155-108(2)(b) 
12-155-113(1)(a) 
$225 
$600 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day
Failure of an apprentice to 
work under the supervision 
of a licensed plumber  
12-155-124(1) 
12-155-113(1)(a) 
$50 
$200 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day 
Employment of unlicensed 
personnel to perform 
plumbing work 
12-155-113(1)(k) 
$300 
$600 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day 
Operating as a plumbing 
contractor without obtaining 
registration from the Board 
12-155-108(3) 
12-155-113(1)(a) 
$750 
$1,500 
Up to 
$2,000 
per day 
Failure of a licensee to 
supervise a plumbing 
apprentice 
12-155-113(1)(i) 
12-155-124 
$375 
$600 
Up to 
$2,000 
per day 
Supervision by a residential, 
journeyworker, or master 
plumber of more than three 
apprentice plumbers at the 
12-155-124(1) 
12-155-113(1)(a) 
$375 
$600 
Up to 
$2,000 
per day 
Failure to obtain a permit 
and/or failure to obtain an 
inspection
12-155-120(1) 
12-155-113(1)(a) 
$375 
$900 
Up to 
$2,000 
per day
Applying for a plumbing 
permit if not qualified 
applicant
12-155-113(1)(r) 
$375 
$900 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day
Failure of a licensed or 
registered individual working 
as a plumber to carry on his 
or her person the 
appropriate license, 
12-155-113(1)(b) 
Rule 1.4(G) 
$150 
$375 
Up to 
$2,000 
per day 
Failure of a plumbing 
contractor to display their 
plumbing contractor and/or 
the plumbing contractor’s 
master plumber license 
12-155-125 
12-155-113(1)(a) 
12-155-113(1)(s) 
$225 
$600 
Up to 
$2,000 per 
day

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
68 
Violation 
Statutory/Rule 
Provision
1st 
2nd 
3rd 
Failure to remove a cause 
for disapproval of any 
plumbing installation within a 
reasonable time 
12-155-113(1)(c) 
$450 
$900 
Up to 
$2,000 
per day 
Advertising by a licensee or 
registrant which is false or 
misleading 
12-155-113(1)(g) 
$375 
$750 
Up to 
$2,000 
per day 
Deception, 
misrepresentation or fraud in 
obtaining or attempting to 
obtain a license
12-155-113(1)(h) 
$1,000 
$2,000 
Up to 
$2,000 
per day 
Violating other state law in 
connection with a 
construction project (i.e., 
construction, safety, labor, 
health, worker’s 
compensation insurance, or 
t
l
)
12-155-108(3) 
12-155-113(1)(q) 
$375 
$750 
Up to 
$2,000 
per day 
Other violations of Article 
155 of Title 12, C.R.S. or 
any Board Rule
12-155-113(1) 
Up to 
$1,000 
Up to 
$2,000 
Up to 
$2,000 
per day
E. 
Compliance. Payment of a fine assessed from a citation does not relieve the 
receiver of the citation from correcting the situation, installation, statute or code 
violation noted in the citation. 
1.8 
DECLARATORY ORDERS 
A. 
Board Petition. Any person may petition the Board for a declaratory order to 
terminate controversies or to remove uncertainties as to the applicability to the 
petitioner of any statutory provision or of any Rule or order of the Board. 
B. 
Board Ruling. The Board will determine, at its discretion and without notice to 
the petitioner, whether to rule upon any such petition. If the Board determines 
that it will not rule upon such a petition, the Board shall promptly notify the 
petitioner of its action and state the reasons for such action. 
C. 
Determination to Rule. In determining whether to rule upon a petition filed 
pursuant to this Rule, the Board will consider the following matters, among 
others: 
1. 
Whether a ruling on the petition will terminate a controversy or remove 
uncertainties as to the applicability to petitioner of any statutory provision 
or rule or order of the Board.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
69 
2. 
Whether the petition involves any subject, question or issue which is the 
subject of a formal or informal matter or investigation currently pending 
before the Board or a court involving one or more of the petitioners. 
3. 
Whether the petition involves any subject, question or issue which is the 
subject of a formal or informal matter of investigation currently pending 
before the Board or a court but not involving any petitioner. 
4. 
Whether the petition seeks a ruling on a moot or hypothetical question or 
will result in an advisory ruling or opinion. 
5. 
Whether the petitioner has some other adequate legal remedy, other than 
an action for declaratory relief pursuant to Rule 57, Colo. R. Civ. P., which 
will terminate the controversy or remove any uncertainty as to the 
applicability to the petitioner of the statute, rule or order in question. 
D. 
Petition Requirements. Any petition filed pursuant to this Rule shall set forth the 
following: 
1. 
The name, e-mail address, and physical address of the petitioner and 
whether the petitioner is licensed pursuant to the organic act; 
2. 
The statute, rule or order to which the petition relates; 
3. 
A concise statement of all of the facts necessary to show the nature of the 
controversy or uncertainty and the manner in which the statute, rule or 
order in question applies or potentially applies to the petitioner. 
E. 
Procedure. If the Board determines that it will rule on the petition, the following 
procedures shall apply: 
1. 
The Board may rule upon the petition based solely upon the facts 
presented in the petition. In such a case: 
a. 
Any ruling of the Board will apply only to the extent of the facts 
presented in the petition and any amendment to the petition. 
b. 
The Board may order the petitioner to file a written brief, 
memorandum or statement of position. 
c. 
The Board may set the petition, upon due notice to petitioner, for a 
non- evidentiary hearing. 
d. 
The Board may dispose of the petition on the sole basis of the 
matters set forth in the petition.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
70 
e. 
The Board may request the petitioner to submit additional facts, in 
writing. In such event, such additional facts will be considered as an 
amendment to the petition. 
f. 
The Board may take administrative notice of facts, pursuant to the 
Administrative Procedure Act, section 24-4-105(8), C.R.S., and 
may utilize its experience, technical competence and specialized 
knowledge in the disposition. If the Board rules upon the petition 
without a hearing, it shall promptly notify the petitioner of its 
decision. 
2. 
The Board may, at its discretion, set the petition for hearing upon due 
notice to petitioner, for the purpose of obtaining additional facts or 
information or to determine the truth of any facts set forth in the petition or 
to hear oral argument on the petition. The notice to the petitioner setting 
such hearing shall set forth, to the extent known, the factual or other 
matters into which the Board intends to inquire. For the purpose of such a 
hearing, to the extent necessary, the petitioner shall have the burden of 
proving all of the facts stated in the petition, all of the facts necessary to 
show the nature of the controversy or uncertainty and the manner in which 
the statute, rule or order in question applies or potentially applies to the 
petitioner and any other facts the petitioner desires the Board to consider. 
F. 
Parties. The parties to any proceeding pursuant to this Rule shall be the Board 
and the petitioner. Any other person may seek leave of the Board to intervene in 
such a proceeding, and leave to intervene will be granted at the sole discretion of 
the Board. A petition to intervene shall set forth the same matters as required by 
section (D) of this Rule. Any reference to a “petitioner” in this Rule also refers to 
any person who has been granted leave to intervene by the Board. 
G. 
Order. Any declaratory order or other order disposing of a petition pursuant to 
this Rule shall constitute agency action subject to judicial review pursuant to 
section 24-4-106, C.R.S. 
1.9 
STATE PLUMBING INSPECTORS 
A. 
Applicant. All applicants for the position of state plumbing inspector must 
possess a current journeyworker or master plumber license issued by the State 
of Colorado. 
B. 
Plumbing License. Plumbing inspectors must maintain a current Colorado 
journeyworker or master plumbing license.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 720-1 
State Plumbing Board 
 
71 
______________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2008. 
Entire rule eff. 04/01/2010. 
Rules 2.3.A, 2.4.1-2.4.2, 6.4 eff. 09/01/2011. 
Entire rule eff. 03/15/2014. 
Rules 2.3, 3.1 eff. 12/15/2014. 
Entire rule eff. 02/14/2016. 
Rules 2.5.1.27, 4.1, 4.2, 4.5.4, 4.5.5, 4.6-4.13, 6.1, 7.4 eff. 04/01/2016. 
Rules 1.2 A-C, 1.2 D.4, 1.2 D.7-10, 1.2 E, 1.3, 1.4 A, 1.4 E, 1.6 B.8 eff. 06/14/2020. 
Rule 1.4.D repealed eff. 06/14/2020. 
Rule 1.3 C eff. 08/30/2021. 
Rule 1.4 L.2 eff. 12/15/2021. 
Rule 1.10 emer. rule eff. 10/26/2022. 
Rule 1.10 eff. 12/15/2022. 
Rules 1.2, 1.3 A,B, 1.4 A,B,E,L, 1.5 E, 1.7 D eff. 04/14/2023. 
Rule 1.2 E.1 eff. 12/15/2023. Rule 1.10 repealed eff. 12/15/2023. 
Rules 1.1 C, 1.2 E.1.c, 1.2 E.2.c, 1.3 D, 1.4 A.3.e-f, 1.4 B.1, 1.4 E.2, 1.4 E.3.e(4)(b)(i), 
1.4 E.4.a(1), 1.4 E.4.b(2)(c)(i), 1.4 F, 1.4 N, 1.7 B.1, 1.7 D, 1.9 eff. 04/30/2025. 
Rules 1.2.D.10,.1.2.E.3.l, 1.3.B-E, 1.4.A.3, 1.4.E.2-4 eff. 02/14/2026. 
 
Annotations 
Rules 1.10 B. and 1.10 C. (adopted 10/26/2022) were not extended by Senate Bill 23-
102 and therefore expired 05/15/2023.
