---
id: "3_CCR_702-9"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "3 CCR 702-9"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=11822&fileName=3%20CCR%20702-9&type=pdf"
---

#### 3_CCR_702-9. 3 CCR 702-9

1 
DEPARTMENT OF REGULATORY AGENCIES 
Division of Insurance 
PRESCRIPTION DRUG AFFORDABILITY BOARD 
3 CCR 702-9 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Part 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS 
1.1 
Definitions 
A. 
Authority 
The statutory authority for this rule includes but is not limited to section 10-16-1403(5), C.R.S. 
B. 
Scope and Purpose 
The purpose of this rule is to provide necessary definitions of terms used throughout the rules. 
C. 
Definitions 
“Advisory Council” has the same meaning set forth in section 10-16-1401(1), C.R.S. 
“Affordability Review” means a review of a as prescription drug performed by the Board pursuant to 
section 10-16-1406(3)-(7), C.R.S., to determine whether use of the prescription drug consistent with the 
labeling approved for prescription drug by the FDA or with standard medical practice is unaffordable for 
Colorado consumers. 
“All-Payer Health Claims Database” or “APCD” has the same meaning as set forth in section 10-16-
1401(3), C.R.S. 
“Authorized Generic Drug” has the same meaning as set forth in section 10-16-1401(4), C.R.S. 
“Average Sales Price” has the same meaning as set forth in section 42 U.S.C. § 1395w-3a(c). 
“Biological Product” has the same meaning as set forth in section 10-16-1401(5), C.R.S. 
“Biosimilar Drug” has the same meaning as set forth in section 10-16-1401(6), C.R.S. 
“Board” has the same meaning as set forth in section 10-16-1401(7), C.R.S. 
“Board Activity” has the same meaning as set forth in section 10-16-1401(7.5), C.R.S. 
“Board Staff” means any individual employed by the Division of Insurance providing support to and/or 
doing work on behalf of the Board. 
“Brand-name Drug” has the same meaning as set forth in section 10-16-1401(8), C.R.S. 
“Carrier” has the same meaning as set forth in section 10-16-102(8), C.R.S. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-9 
Division of Insurance 
 
2 
“Days” means calendar days. 
“Division” or “Division of Insurance” means the Colorado Division of Insurance or any successor entity. 
“FDA” has the same meaning as set forth in section 10-16-102(27.5), C.R.S. 
“Generic Drug” has the same meaning as set forth in section 10-16-1401(12), C.R.S. 
“HCPF” means the Colorado Department of Health Care, Policy & Financing or any successor entity. 
“Health Benefit Plan” has the same meaning as set forth in section 10-16-102(32), C.R.S. 
“Initial WAC” means the earliest listed WAC for a prescription drug. 
“Manufacturer” has the same meaning as set forth in section 10-16-1401(16), C.R.S. 
“Medicare Maximum Fair Price” has the same meaning as determined by section 42 U.S.C. § 1320f(c)(3). 
“National Drug Code” or “NDC” means the numeric code associated with a finished drug product or 
unfinished drug that identifies its labeler, product, and package size and type. 
“Off-label usage” means the use of a prescription drug for a disease or medical condition that is outside 
the FDA-approved indication(s). 
“Optional Participating Plan” has the same meaning as set forth in section 10-16-1401(17), C.R.S. 
“Out-of-Pocket Costs” means the amount a covered person is required to pay in the form of cost-sharing 
for covered benefits in a plan year, including deductibles, coinsurance, and copayments. 
“Person” includes an individual, limited liability company, partnership, corporation, association, county, 
and public or private organization of any character other than an agency. 
“Pharmacist” has the same meaning as set forth in section 12-280-103(35), C.R.S. 
“Pharmacy Benefit Management Firm” or “PBM” has the same meaning as set forth in section 10-16-
102(49), C.R.S. 
“Plan ID” means the unique health benefit plan identifier, including number and/or name, and, as 
applicable, the plan identification number used for Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services’ Health 
Insurance and Oversight System 
“Plan Year” means a consecutive 12 month period during which a health plan provides coverage for 
health benefits. A plan year may be a calendar year or otherwise. 
“Prescription Drug” has the same meaning as set forth in section 10-16-1401(19), C.R.S. 
“Pricing Information” has the same meaning as set forth in section 10-16-1401(20), C.R.S

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-9 
Division of Insurance 
 
3 
“Priority Populations” means people experiencing homelessness; people involved with the criminal justice 
system; black people, indigenous people, and people of color; American Indians and Alaska natives; 
veterans; people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, or questioning; people of 
disproportionately affected sexual orientations, gender identities, or sex assigned at birth; people who 
have AIDS or HIV; older adults; children and families; and people with disabilities, including people who 
are deaf and hard of hearing, people who are blind and deafblind, people with brain injuries, people with 
intellectual and developmental disabilities, people with other co-occurring disabilities; and other 
populations as deemed appropriate by the Prescription Drug Affordability Board. 
“Provider” has the same meaning as set forth in section 10-16-102(56), C.R.S. 
“State Entity” has the same meaning as set forth in section 10-16-1401(22), C.R.S. 
“Therapeutic Alternative” means a drug product that contains a different therapeutic agent than the drug 
in question, but is the same pharmacological or therapeutic class and has been shown through peer-
reviewed studies to have similar therapeutic effects, safety profile, and expected outcome when 
administered to patients in a therapeutically equivalent dose or has been recommended as consistent 
with standard medical practice by medical professional association guidelines. 
“Therapeutically Equivalent” means approved drug products that are pharmaceutical equivalents for 
which bioequivalence has been demonstrated, and that can be expected to have the same clinical effect 
and safety profile when administered to patients under the conditions specified in the labeling. 
“Upper Payment Limit” has the same meaning as set forth in section 10-16-1401(23), C.R.S. 
“Wholesale Acquisition Cost” (“WAC”) has the same meaning as set forth in section 10-16-1401(24), 
C.R.S. 
“Wholesaler” has the same meaning as set forth in section 12-280-103(55), C.R.S. 
1.2 
Severability 
A. 
Authority 
The statutory authority for this rule is section 10-16-1403(5), C.R.S. 
B. 
Scope and Purpose 
The purpose of this rule is to clarify the severability of these rules. 
C. 
Severability 
If any portion of these rules is found to be invalid, the remaining portion of the rules shall remain 
in force and effect. 
1.3 
Declaratory Orders 
A. 
Authority 
The statutory authority for this rule includes but is not limited to section 10-16-1403(5), C.R.S., and 
section 24-4-105(11), C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-9 
Division of Insurance 
 
4 
B. 
Scope and Purpose 
The purpose of this rule is to set forth the declaratory order procedures as required by section 24-4-
105(11), C.R.S. 
C. 
Declaratory Orders 
1. 
Who May Request a Petition for Declaratory Order: Any person as defined in section 24-4-
102(12), C.R.S., may request the Board to issue a declaratory order to terminate controversies or 
to remove uncertainties concerning any provision of the Prescription Drug Affordability Act, or any 
regulation of the Board. 
2. 
Board Response: The Board will determine, in its sound discretion, whether to rule upon the 
submitted petition. If the Board determines not to rule on the petition, the Board shall issue a 
written order disposing of the submitted petition, including the reasons for such action. A copy of 
the order will be provided to the petitioner. 
3. 
Ruling on a Petition for Declaratory Order: In determining whether to rule upon a petition filed 
pursuant to this rule, the Board may consider the following: 
a. 
Whether a ruling on the petition will terminate a controversy or remove uncertainties as to 
the applicability of any statutory provision, rule, or order of the Board to the petitioner; 
b. 
Whether the petition involves any subject, question, or issue which is the subject of a 
formal or informal matter or investigation currently pending before the Board, or a court, 
involving one or more of the petitioners, and which will terminate the controversy or 
remove the uncertainties as to the applicability or any statutory provision, rule, or order of 
the Board to the petitioner; 
c. 
Whether the petition involves any subject, question, or issue which is at-issue in an 
Affordability Review or Upper Payment Limit currently being conducted by the Board, but 
does not involve the petitioner, and which will terminate the controversy or remove the 
uncertainties as to the applicability of any statutory provision, rule, or order of the Board 
to the petitioner; 
d. 
Whether the petition seeks a ruling on a moot or hypothetical question, or will result in an 
advisory ruling or opinion; 
e. 
Whether the petitioner has other adequate legal remedies, other than an action for 
declaratory relief pursuant to Rule 57, Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure, which will 
terminate the controversy or remove any uncertainty as to the applicability of the statute, 
rule, or order in question to the petitioner; and 
f. 
Any response to the petition filed by Board Staff. Such response must be filed by the 
Board Staff within 14 days of the filing of the Petition. 
4. 
Petition for a Declaratory Order: Any petition or request to intervene filed pursuant to this rule 
shall include the following: 
a. 
The name and address of the petitioner; 
b. 
The statute, rule, or order to which the petition relates; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-9 
Division of Insurance 
 
5 
c. 
A concise statement of all of the facts necessary to show the nature of the controversy or 
uncertainty and the manner in which the statute, rule, or order in question applies or 
potentially applies to the petitioner. 
5. 
Ruling on a Petition: If the Board determines that it will rule on a submitted petition and any 
response filed by the Board Staff, the following procedures shall apply: 
a. 
The Board may rule solely on the petition and any response filed by the Board Staff. In 
such a case: 
i. 
Any ruling of the Board will apply only to the extent of the facts and issues 
presented in the petition and the Board Staff’s response to the petition; 
ii. 
The Board may order the petitioner and the Board Staff to submit additional facts, 
file written briefs, memorandums, or statements of position; 
iii. 
The Board may dispose of the petition on the sole basis of the matters set forth in 
the petition and the Board Staff’s response; 
iv. 
The Board may take notice of facts pursuant to section 24-4-105(8), C.R.S., and 
may utilize its experience, technical competence, and specialized knowledge in 
the disposition of the petition; and 
v. 
If the Board rules on the petition without a hearing, the Board shall promptly 
notify the petitioner and the Board Staff of the decision. 
b. 
The Board may, in its discretion, set a hearing, after appropriate notice, for the purpose of 
obtaining additional facts or information, to determine the truth of any facts set forth in the 
petition, or to hear oral argument on the petition. The notice of the hearing may include 
the factual or other matters to be addressed at the hearing. At the hearing, to the extent 
necessary, the petitioner shall have the burden of proving all of the facts stated in the 
petition, all of the facts necessary to show the nature of the controversy, or uncertainty, 
the manner in which the statute, rule or order in question applies or potentially applies to 
the petitioner, and shall include any other facts the petitioner desires the Board to 
consider. 
6. 
Parties: The parties to any proceeding pursuant to this rule shall be the Board Staff and the 
petitioner. Any other person may request permission to intervene in the proceeding, and leave to 
intervene will be granted at the sole discretion of the Board. A petition to intervene shall be 
submitted in accordance with Section C(4) of this rule within 14 days of the filing of the petition for 
the declaratory order. Any reference to a “petitioner” in this rule also refers to any person who has 
been granted leave to intervene in a proceeding by the Board. 
7. 
Final Agency Order: Any declaratory order or other order disposing of a petition pursuant to this 
rule shall constitute a final agency order subject to judicial review pursuant to section 24-4-106, 
C.R.S. 
8. 
Public Inspection: Files of all petitions and declaratory orders will be maintained by the Board. 
Except with respect to any material required by law to be kept confidential, such files shall be 
available for public inspection. 
9. 
Posted on Website: The Board shall post a copy of all statements of position and all declaratory 
orders on the Board’s website.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-9 
Division of Insurance 
 
6 
Part 2 REPEALED 
Part 3 AFFORDABILITY REVIEWS OF PRESCRIPTION DRUGS 
3.1 
Affordability Reviews of Eligible Prescription Drugs 
A. 
Authority 
The statutory authority for this part 3 is sections 10-16-1403(5) and 10-16-1406, C.R.S. 
B. 
Scope and Purpose 
The purpose of this part 3 is to establish a methodology and process for the Board to annually identify 
and select prescription drugs eligible for affordability review and conduct affordability reviews of 
prescription drugs to determine whether use of the prescription drug consistent with the labeling approved 
for the prescription drug by the FDA or with standard medical practice is unaffordable for Colorado 
consumers pursuant to section 10-16-1406(3), C.R.S. 
C. 
Identifying Prescription Drugs for Affordability Reviews 
1. 
The Board will adopt the list of prescription drugs eligible for an affordability review prior to 
consideration of which prescription drug(s) to select for an affordability review. The Board will 
identify eligible prescription drugs in accordance with the statutory criteria set forth in section 10- 
16-1406(1), C.R.S. 
2. 
Prescription drugs that meet the following requirements qualify for an affordability review. 
a. 
Any prescription drug that, has: 
i. 
A wholesale acquisition cost of three thousand dollars or more 
ii.. 
An increase of three hundred dollars or more above the wholesale acquisition 
cost for the prescription drug in the preceding twelve months; 
iii. 
An increase of two hundred percent or more above the wholesale acquisition 
cost for the prescription drug in the preceding twelve months; or 
iv. 
A current wholesale acquisition cost for an average course of treatment per 
person per year of thirty thousand dollars or more; and 
b. 
Any biosimilar drug that has an initial wholesale acquisition cost that is not at least fifteen 
percent lower than the wholesale acquisition cost of the corresponding biological product. 
D. 
Selecting Prescription Drugs for Affordability Reviews 
After identifying prescription drugs as described in Section C above, the Board will determine whether to 
conduct an affordability review for an identified prescription drug by considering the following: 
1. 
Class of the Prescription Drug and Therapeutic Equivalents: 
a. 
Determine the date of FDA approval of the eligible prescription drug and whether the 
prescription drug was approved through an expedited pathway.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-9 
Division of Insurance 
 
7 
b. 
For brand-name drugs and biological products, the Board will determine the class and 
whether there are any approved and marketed generic drugs or biosimilar drugs for the 
specific brand-name drug or biological product. 
c. 
Where there are therapeutic equivalents, the Board may consider for each equivalent the 
cost and availability by considering utilization data and spending data. 
2. 
Aggregated Data: 
a. 
Historical and current pricing data, including wholesale acquisition cost and average 
sales price of the prescription drug; 
b. 
Expenditures associated with the prescription drug, including expenditures identified in 
APCD data, including data collected pursuant to 10-16-1405, C.R.S.; 
c. 
Utilization associated with the prescription drug, including utilization identified in APCD 
data; 
d. 
Health equity impact, including whether the prescription drug is utilized to treat a 
condition disproportionately experienced by priority populations; and 
e. 
Information regarding the estimated manufacturer net-cost and net-sales amounts for 
eligible prescription drugs. 
3. 
Average Patient’s Out-Of-Pocket Cost: Consideration of the average patient’s out-of-pocket cost 
for the prescription drug, which may include copayment amounts, cost-sharing amounts, 
coinsurance amounts, and other information relevant to out-of-pocket costs. 
4. 
Input from Advisory Council: 
a. 
To the extent practicable, information regarding therapeutic alternatives, aggregated 
data, and the average patient’s out-of-pocket cost will be presented to the Advisory 
Council. 
b. 
The Board will seek input from the Advisory Council regarding which prescription drugs 
the Advisory Council recommends for the Board to select for an affordability review. 
i. 
The Board may request the Advisory Council provide specific information, data, 
or its positions concerning a particular prescription drug. 
ii. 
The Advisory Council will provide input in a form and manner determined by the 
Advisory Council. 
c. 
The Board will consider input provided to it by the Advisory Council before selecting 
drugs for an affordability review. 
5. 
Input Regarding Orphan Drug Designation: Consideration of whether the prescription drug has an 
approved orphan drug designation for one or more rare diseases and no other indications. If the 
prescription drug has an approved orphan drug designation for one or more rare diseases and no 
other indications, then the Board will consider input from consumers and the Colorado Rare 
Disease Advisory Council created in section 25-1-1503, C.R.S. 
6. 
The Board may use information from D.1-D.5 to prioritize affordability goals in the selection of 
prescription drugs for an affordability review.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-9 
Division of Insurance 
 
8 
E. 
Conducting an Affordability Review 
After selecting an eligible prescription drug from the list adopted under D, the Board will conduct an 
affordability review to determine whether use of the prescription drug consistent with the labeling 
approved for the prescription drug by the FDA or with standard medical practices is unaffordable for 
Colorado consumers. The Board will conduct an affordability review by considering, to the extent 
practicable, all of the factors set forth in section 10-16-1406(4), C.R.S., as discussed in this section E., 
including the additional factors created by the Board and set forth in section E.2.j. Finally, the Board may 
consider the factors set forth in section 10-16-1406(6), C.R.S., as discussed in section E.3. 
1. 
To the extent the information submitted to the Board contains confidential information, the Board 
will consider such information in executive session and will not disclose the information publicly 
pursuant to section 10-16-1404(3), C.R.S. 
2. 
In accordance with section 10-16-1406(4), C.R.S., in conducting an affordability review, to the 
extent practicable, the Board shall consider: 
a. 
Wholesale Acquisition Cost: The Board will consider both the current wholesale 
acquisition cost of the prescription drug and changes in the prescription drug’s wholesale 
acquisition cost over time. 
b. 
Therapeutic Alternatives: The Board will consider the cost and availability of therapeutic 
alternatives to the prescription drug in the state. The Board may review any relevant data 
regarding costs and expenditures related to the prescription drug and its therapeutic 
alternatives, as well as any relevant data regarding availability and utilization related to 
the prescription drug and its therapeutic alternatives. 
c. 
Price Effect on Colorado Consumer Access: The Board will consider the effect of price on 
Colorado consumers’ access to the prescription drug by reviewing changes in pricing, 
expenditure, and utilization over time. To the extent the data is available, the Board may 
consider the impact of the drug’s price on insurance premiums and out-of-pocket costs, 
the impacts of formulary placement on access, and the extent to which rebates are 
shared with patients purchasing the drug. 
d. 
Relative Financial Effects of the Prescription Drug on Health, Medical, or Social Services 
Costs: 
i. 
To the extent such information can be quantified, the Board may consider the 
relative financial effects of the prescription drug on broader health, medical, 
and/or social services costs, compared with therapeutic alternatives and/or no 
treatment. This may include considering results from external analyses and 
modeling studies, or impacts on premiums, state expenditures on the drug or 
disease, and other broader system financial impacts. 
ii. 
The Board may identify if the literature uses a quality-adjusted life-year analysis 
or a similar measure that discounts the value of a life because of an individual’s 
disability or age. The Board may use information that uses a quality-adjusted life 
year analysis to evaluate relative financial effects, but will not use quality 
adjusted life year analysis to determine an upper payment limit or other 
appropriate costs of a prescription drug. If quality-adjusted life year analysis is 
used during affordability review, the Board will acknowledge any health equity 
impacts to priority populations.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-9 
Division of Insurance 
 
9 
e. 
Patient Copayment or Other Cost Sharing: The Board will consider the copayment and 
other cost sharing data, across different health benefit plan designs, to the degree such 
information is available in the APCD, including: 
i. 
Copayment; 
ii. 
Coinsurance; 
iii. 
Deductible; 
iv. 
Formulary placement; and/or 
v. 
Any other copayment and cost sharing data. 
f. 
Impact on Safety Net Providers: When the prescription drug is available through Section 
340B of the Federal “Public Health Service Act”, Pub.L. 78-410, the Board will evaluate: 
i. 
The utilization of the prescription drug by the safety net provider’s patients; 
ii. 
Whether the safety net provider receives a 340B discount for the prescription 
drug; 
iii. 
Where the safety net provider does not receive a discount, whether access to the 
prescription drug is impeded; and 
iv. 
Any other topics identified by safety net provider stakeholders for discussion. 
g. 
Orphan Drug Status: The Board will consider: 
i. 
The Board will identify whether the prescription drug is an orphan drug, as 
designated by the FDA pursuant to the Orphan Drug Act (Pub.L. 97-414). 
ii. 
The Board may further consider: 
(1) 
The use of the prescription drug for indications with an orphan drug 
designation as compared to the use of the prescription drug for other 
indications; and/or 
(2) 
The extent to which the drug addresses an unmet need or treats a rare 
or serious disease for which limited therapeutic alternatives are 
available. 
h. 
Input from Specified Stakeholders: 
i. 
Patients and Caregivers 
(1) 
The Board will seek input from patients and caregivers affected by a 
condition or disease that is treated by the prescription drug by gathering 
information related to: 
(a) 
The impact of the disease, 
(b) 
Patient treatment preferences, 
(c) 
The availability of therapeutic alternatives,

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-9 
Division of Insurance 
 
10 
(d) 
Patient perspective on the benefits and disadvantages of using 
the prescription drug, 
(e) 
Caregiver perspective on the benefits and disadvantages of 
using the prescription drug, and/or 
(f) 
Entities providing patient assistance in purchasing the 
prescription drug. 
(2) 
In seeking additional information, the Board will attempt to gather a 
diversity of experience among patients from different socioeconomic 
backgrounds. 
(3) 
The information gathered from patients and caregivers pursuant to this 
section will include on-label usage, off-label usage, or usage during a 
clinical trial. 
ii. 
Individuals with Scientific or Medical Training: The Board will seek input from 
individuals who possess scientific or medical training with respect to a condition 
or disease treated by the prescription drug that is under review by the Board, 
including: 
(1) 
The impact of the disease, 
(2) 
The availability of therapeutic alternatives, 
(3) 
Perspectives on benefits and disadvantages of the prescription drug, 
including comparisons with therapeutic alternatives if any exist, and/or 
(4) 
Input regarding the prescription drug utilization in standard medical 
practice, as well as input regarding off label usage and usage during a 
clinical trial. 
iii. 
The Rare Disease Advisory Council: The Board will seek input from the Rare 
Disease Advisory Council with respect to a rare condition or disease treated by 
the prescription drug that is under review by the Board, including: 
(1) 
The impact of the disease, 
(2) 
Perspectives on benefits and disadvantages of the prescription drug, and 
(3) 
Findings and recommendations concerning the needs of individuals with 
a rare disease living in Colorado who are affected by the prescription 
drug. 
(4) 
The Rare Disease Advisory Council may provide the Board with 
connections to individuals with scientific and medical training who are 
knowledgeable with regard to the rare condition being treated by the 
prescription drug under review. 
i. 
Information Voluntarily Submitted from a Manufacturer, Carrier, Pharmacy Benefit 
Management Firm, or Other Entity: 
i. 
The Board will consider information voluntarily provided by a manufacturer, 
carrier, pharmacy benefit management firm, or other entity.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-9 
Division of Insurance 
 
11 
ii. 
Manufacturers, carriers, pharmacy benefit management firms, or other entities 
shall have 90 days from the commencement of the affordability review to provide 
such information to the Board for its consideration. 
j. 
Additional Factors, including: 
i. 
Rebates, Discounts, and Price Concessions: To the extent practicable, the Board 
may consider estimated manufacturer net-sales or net-cost amounts (including 
rebates, discounts, and price concessions) for the prescription drug and 
therapeutic alternatives; and 
ii. 
Health Equity Factors: The Board will consider whether the pricing of the 
prescription drug results in or has contributed to health inequities in priority 
populations. 
iii. 
Information from the Department of Health Care Policy and Financing: 
(1) 
Additional analyses HCPF conducts relevant to the prescription drug or 
therapeutic alternative under review; and/or 
(2) 
Information regarding safety net providers participating in the 340B, 
including information to assist with gathering input to assess the impact 
to safety net providers for a prescription drug under review that is 
available through Section 340B of the Federal “Public Health Service 
Act”, Pub.L. 78-410. 
iv. 
Non-adherence and Utilization Management Information: The Board may use 
information regarding non-adherence to the prescription drug, as well as 
information related to utilization management restrictions and prior authorization 
requirements placed on the prescription drug. 
v. 
Patient Assistance Program Information: The Board may use information 
regarding eligibility criteria for and the utilization of patient assistance programs. 
3. 
Pricing Information 
a. 
The Board may also consider documents and information relating to the manufacturer’s 
selection of the introductory price or price increase of the prescription drug including 
information related to: 
i. 
Life-cycle management; 
ii. 
Average cost of the prescription drug in Colorado; 
iii. 
Market competition; 
iv. 
Projected revenue; 
v. 
Estimated cost-effectiveness of the prescription drug; and/or 
vi. 
Off-label usage of the prescription drug. 
b. 
Pursuant to section 10-16-1406(7)(a), C.R.S., to the extent practicable, the Board may 
access pricing information for prescription drugs by:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-9 
Division of Insurance 
 
12 
i. 
Accessing publicly available pricing information from a state to which 
manufacturers report pricing information; 
ii. 
Accessing available pricing information from the APCD and from state entities; 
and/or 
iii. 
Accessing information that is available from other countries. 
4. 
Pursuant to section 10-16-1406(7)(b), C.R.S., to the extent that there is no publicly available 
information with which to conduct an affordability review, the Board may request that a 
manufacturer, carrier, or pharmacy benefit management firm provide pricing information for any 
prescription drug eligible for an affordability review. 
a. 
Such interested parties shall have 30 days from the date of the request of a prescription 
drug for affordability review to provide such information to the Board for its consideration. 
b. 
Failure of an entity to provide pricing information to the Board for an affordability review 
does not affect the authority of the Board to conduct the affordability review, as described 
in this section. 
5. 
Determination of Unaffordable: After consideration of the factors set forth in section E.2. and 
Section E.3., pricing information pursuant to section 10-16-1406(7)(a), C.R.S., and pricing 
information collected and received from manufacturers, carriers, and pharmacy benefit 
management firms pursuant to section 10-16-1406(7)(b), C.R.S., the Board shall determine 
whether the use of the prescription drug consistent with the labeling approved for the drug by the 
FDA or with standard medical practice is unaffordable for Colorado consumers. In reaching such 
a determination, the Board may consider whether the drug is unaffordable for: 
a. 
Colorado consumers using the prescription drug; 
b. 
Colorado consumers with diseases or conditions that the prescription drug is approved to 
treat; 
c. 
Colorado consumers whose taxes fund health care costs for public employees, including 
employees of the state, county, and local governments, school districts, and institutions 
of higher education, and to public retirees whose health care costs are funded by public 
programs; and 
d. 
Colorado consumers accessing the health care system in Colorado whose health care 
costs and health insurance premiums may be impacted by the cost of the prescription 
drug in the state. 
6. 
Summary Report of Affordability Review: The Board will issue a report summarizing information 
considered by the Board in conducting the affordability review and reaching its determination as 
to whether a prescription drug is unaffordable. All reports adopted by the Board will be made 
public on the Board’s website.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-9 
Division of Insurance 
 
13 
7. 
Confidentiality: A person submitting information for the Board’s consideration pursuant to this Part 
3 shall clearly designate the specific information it deems to be confidential, trade-secret or 
proprietary. The Board may also determine that information submitted to it is confidential, trade 
secret, or proprietary. The Board may seek additional information regarding whether the 
information is confidential, trade-secret, or proprietary from the person submitting the information 
or, to the extent the Board is able to determine who created the document or information, the 
person who created the document or information. The Board will not disclose confidential, trade 
secret, or proprietary information in an open meeting, its public meeting materials, or its summary 
report. To the extent the information submitted to the Board contains confidential information, the 
Board will consider such information in executive session and will not disclose the information 
publicly pursuant to sections 10-16-1404(3), or to others except as provided by section 10-16- 
1406(5), C.R.S. 
Part 4 UPPER PAYMENT LIMITS 
4.1 
Upper Payment Limit Methodology 
A. 
Authority 
The statutory authority for this part 4.1 is sections 10-16-1407, 10-16-1412(2), and 10-16-1403(5), C.R.S. 
B. 
Scope and Purpose 
The purpose of this part 4.1 is to establish the methodology required pursuant to section 10-16-1407, 
C.R.S., for the Board to establish upper payment limits for prescription drugs it has determined to be 
unaffordable pursuant to section 10-16-1406, C.R.S., and part 3 of these rules. 
C. 
Methodology to Establish Upper Payment Limits 
1. 
Number of Upper Payment Limits on Prescription Drugs: The Board may establish an upper 
Payment limit for any prescription drug for which the Board has performed an affordability review 
pursuant to section 10-16-1406, C.R.S., and part 3 of the Board's rules and determined that the 
use of the prescription drug is unaffordable for Colorado consumers. 
a. 
The Board may not establish more than twelve upper payment limits each calendar year 
from 2022 through 2024. If the Board finds a need to establish upper payment limits for 
more than twelve prescription drugs in the 2023 and 2024 calendar years, the Board may 
establish an additional six upper payment limits during that calendar year. 
b. 
Beginning in 2025, the Board may establish any number of upper payment limits. 
2. 
Upper Payment Limit Methodology: In establishing an upper payment limit, the Board shall review 
the following factors to determine an upper payment limit for a prescription drug, in accordance 
with section 10-16-1407(2)-(4), C.R.S. 
a. 
Prescription Drug Costs: To approximate prescription drug costs, the Board may consider 
one or more price and cost metrics as an estimation of the cost of administering or 
dispensing the prescription drug, the cost of distributing the prescription drug, and other 
relevant costs. Price and cost metrics include but are not limited to: 
i. 
Wholesale Acquisition Cost, 
ii. 
Average Sales Price,

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-9 
Division of Insurance 
 
14 
iii. 
National Average Drug Acquisition Cost as reported by the Center for Medicare 
and Medicaid Services, 
iv. 
Out-of-pocket amounts, 
v. 
Carrier paid amounts, 
vi. 
Retail discount amounts, 
vii. 
Public health care program fee schedules, 
viii. 
Estimates of manufacturer net-cost and net-sales amounts, 
ix. 
Medicare’s Maximum Fair Price, and 
x. 
Cost information voluntarily provided by a wholesaler, pharmacist, or provider. 
b. 
Drug Shortage List: The Board will consider the status of the prescription drug on the 
Drug Shortage List published by the Drug Shortage Program within the Food and Drug 
Administration and the American Society of Health System Pharmacists. The Board’s 
consideration may include: 
i. 
Whether the prescription drug is listed on the Drug Shortage List on the day the 
Board adopts an upper payment limit for the prescription drug, as well as whether 
the prescription drug is subject to a resolved or discontinued shortage. 
ii. 
If the prescription drug is listed on the Drug Shortage List, the Board may 
consider: 
(1) 
Availability and estimated shortage duration, 
(2) 
Shortage reason, 
(3) 
Therapeutic classification, and 
(4) 
Other related information. 
c. 
Impact to Older Adults and Persons with Disabilities: The upper payment limit 
methodology must consider the impact of the upper payment limit methodology to older 
adults and persons with disabilities and shall not place a lower value on their lives. 
i. 
Impact to Older Adults - the Board will consider the following metrics for 
individuals 65 years and older: to the extent such information is readily available 
in the APCD: 
(1) 
To the extent such information is available in the APCD: 
(a) 
Utilization of the prescription drug, 
(b) 
Cost of the prescription drug, and 
(c) 
Insurance coverage type for individuals utilizing the prescription 
drug; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-9 
Division of Insurance 
 
15 
(2) 
Qualitative or quantitative analyses and information submitted by 
stakeholders with lived experience or expertise of the prescription drug’s 
impact to older adults. The Board will not consider any analyses or 
information submitted that utilizes a cost-per-QALY or similar measure 
that discounts the value of life because of an individual’s disability or 
age. 
ii. 
Impact to Persons with Disabilities: The Board will consider the following metrics 
for persons with disabilities: 
(1) 
Therapeutic classification of the prescription drug, including the 
prescription drug’s therapeutic purpose and any conditions or diseases 
the prescription drug may treat, 
(2) 
To the extent it is known that any conditions or diseases the prescription 
drug may treat are considered disabilities, or to the extent it is known the 
drug treats a condition or disease causes disabilities, and to the extent 
such information is available in the APCD, the Board may consider: 
(a) 
Utilization of the prescription drug, 
(b) 
Cost of the prescription drug, and 
(c) 
Insurance coverage type for individuals utilizing the prescription 
drug; and 
(3) 
Qualitative or quantitative analyses and information submitted by 
stakeholders with lived experience or expertise of the prescription drug’s 
impact to persons with disabilities. The Board will not consider any 
analyses or information submitted that utilizes a cost-per-QALY or similar 
measure that discounts the value of life because of an individual’s 
disability or age. 
d. 
Reasonable Pharmacy Fees: An upper payment limit established by the Board does not 
preclude a pharmacist or pharmacy (as defined by section 12-280-103(43), C.R.S.) 
licensed by the State Board of Pharmacy to charge reasonable fees, to be paid by the 
providing health benefit plan of the consumer, for dispensing or delivering a prescription 
drug for which the Board has established an upper payment limit. 
e. 
Research and Methods that Employ a Dollars-Per-Quality Adjusted Life Year (QALY): 
The Board shall not consider research or methods that employ a dollars-per-QALY or 
similar measure in estimating impact to older adults and persons with disabilities, or in 
any other upper payment limit methodology considerations. 
f. 
Stakeholder Input: The Board shall receive stakeholder information submitted through an 
upper payment limit rulemaking, containing information relevant to any of these 
considerations that the Board may take into account in establishing an upper payment 
limit.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-9 
Division of Insurance 
 
16 
D. 
Process for Establishing Upper Payment Limits 
1. 
Process: The Board will establish upper payment limits through rulemaking, as required 
by section 10-16-1406(1)(a)(II), C.R.S., and in compliance with section 24-4-103, C.R.S. 
The Board will select drugs for which to establish an upper payment limit and initiate a 
rulemaking for a rule establishing an upper payment limit for the prescription drug. An 
upper payment limit may apply to multiple NDCs that are indicated for the prescription 
drug. 
a. 
If the Board has determined a prescription drug to be unaffordable pursuant to 
section 10-16-1406, C.R.S, the Board may choose to establish an upper 
payment limit for that prescription drug. The Board will select drugs for which to 
establish an upper payment limit and initiate a rulemaking for a rule establishing 
an upper payment limit for the prescription drug. 
b. 
The Board may terminate a rulemaking to establish a specific upper payment 
limit for a prescription drug. 
2. 
Consumer Notice: The Board’s initiation of a public rulemaking pursuant to section 24-4-
103, C.R.S., shall constitute notification to consumers of the Board’s decision to establish 
an upper payment limit as required by section 10-16-1407(6), C.R.S. 
3. 
Effective Date: rules establishing upper payment limits promulgated by the Board will 
identify an effective date for the upper payment limit as required by section 10-16-
1407(5), C.R.S. 
4. 
Unit: The Board will identify the unit to which the upper payment limit applies for the 
prescription drug. 
E. 
Prescription Drug Availability Inquiries and Reporting 
1. 
Withdrawal Information from Manufacturers: 
a. 
Inquiry process: 
i. 
For any upper payment limit established, the Board shall inquire of 
manufacturers: 
(1) 
Whether the manufacturer is able to make the prescription drug 
available for sale in the State of Colorado, and 
(2) 
The rationale for the manufacturer’s response. 
ii. 
Manufacturers shall have 30 days to respond. 
b. 
Notification to Consumers: If the Board receives notification that a manufacturer 
intends to withdraw a prescription drug for which the Board has established an 
upper payment limit from the sale or distribution within Colorado, the Board will 
notify consumers within ten days, as required by section 10-16-1412(2), C.R.S. 
2. 
Reporting to the General Assembly: The Board shall submit the manufacturer’s inquiry 
response annually to the Health and Human Services Committee of the Senate and the 
Health and Insurance Committee of the House of Representatives, or to any successor 
committees.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-9 
Division of Insurance 
 
17 
F. 
Confidentiality 
A person submitting information for the Board’s consideration pursuant to this part 4 shall clearly 
designate the specific information it deems to be confidential, trade secret or proprietary. The Board may 
also determine that information submitted to it is confidential, trade secret, or proprietary. The Board will 
not disclose confidential, trade-secret, or proprietary information in an open meeting or its public meeting 
materials. The Board may seek additional information regarding whether the information is confidential, 
trade-secret, or proprietary from the person submitting the information or, to the extent the Board is able 
to determine who created the document or information, the person who created the document or 
information. To the extent the information submitted to the Board contains confidential information, the 
Board will consider such information in executive session and will not disclose the information publicly 
pursuant to sections 10-16-1404(3), and 10-16-1407(7), C.R.S. 
4.2 
Upper Payment Limit Methodology 
A. 
Authority 
The statutory authority for this part 4.2 is sections 10-16-1407 and 10-16-1403(5), C.R.S. 
B. 
Scope and Purpose 
The purpose of this part 4.2 is to establish the applicability of all upper payment limits for prescription 
drugs set by the Board pursuant to section 10-16-1407, C.R.S. and part 4.1 of these rules. 
C. 
Applicability of Upper Payment Limits 
1. 
An upper payment limit established by the Board, plus any reasonable fees charged by the 
pharmacy or pharmacist for dispensing or delivering a prescription drug, applies to a consumer’s 
purchase from a pharmacy (as defined by section 12-280-103(43), C.R.S.) or provider of a 
prescription drug that is dispensed or administered to the Colorado consumer in person, by mail, 
or by other means. If the Colorado consumer is insured, the consumer’s portion of the payment 
together with the reimbursement to the pharmacy and provider by the carrier, state entity, or 
optional participating plan should not exceed the upper payment limit plus any reasonable fees 
charged by the pharmacy or pharmacist for dispensing or delivering a prescription drug. 
2. 
An upper payment limit established by the Board also applies to any pharmacy (as defined by 
section 12-280-103(43), C.R.S.) or provider’s purchase of a prescription drug that is dispensed or 
administered to a Colorado consumer in person, by mail, or by other means. 
Part 5 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR USE OF SAVINGS 
5.1 
Reporting Requirements for Use of Savings 
A. 
Authority 
The statutory authority for this part 5 is sections 10-16-1410(3) and 10-16-1403(5), C.R.S. 
B. 
Scope and Purpose 
The purpose of this part 5 is to establish a formula and process for carriers issuing health benefit plans to 
calculate savings attributable to the establishment of an upper payment limit (UPL) by the Prescription 
Drug Affordability Board (Board) and document their use of savings for the purposes of complying with 
section 10-16-1410(1), C.R.S., and establish the process by which state entities and carriers that issue a 
health benefit plan or optional participating plans shall submit reports to the Board describing savings 
achieved during the preceding plan year pursuant to section 10-16-1410(2), C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-9 
Division of Insurance 
 
18 
C. 
Reporting Requirements for Savings Attributable to Upper Payment Limits 
1. 
On or before March 15, 2023 and each year after, each carrier, state entity, and optional 
participating plan subject to the requirements of section 10-16-1410, C.R.S., shall submit 
one report to the Board describing the savings achieved during the preceding plan year 
for each prescription drug for which the Board has established a UPL. For carriers, this 
report shall include the elements set forth in subsections C.2 and C.3. For state entities 
and optional participating plans, the report shall include the elements set forth in section 
C.3. 
a. 
If the Board has not established any upper payment limits, a carrier, state entity, 
and optional participating plan is not required to submit a report. 
b. 
If the Board has established upper payment limits but a carrier, state entity, or 
optional participating plan did not make any reimbursements for any of the 
prescription drugs for which there is a UPL, then a carrier, state entity, or optional 
participating plan shall not submit a report, but shall notify the Board that they did 
not reimburse pursuant to a UPL. 
2. 
Carrier Use of Savings Formula 
Carriers shall provide the Board with aggregated claims savings, cost-sharing savings, 
and premium savings, for each prescription drug with a UPL for each plan ID the carrier 
offered in the preceding plan year. 
Claims savings are calculated and reported by determining the difference between 
utilization and cost of a prescription drug with a UPL compared to the estimated utilization 
and cost of the prescription drug without the UPL. 
Cost-sharing savings and premium savings are calculated and reported in a manner that 
demonstrates how carriers utilized any savings generated for a health benefit plan from a 
prescription drug’s UPL to reduce costs to consumers, prioritizing the reduction of out-of-
pocket costs. 
Estimated total claims savings (C.2.a.x) must be approximately equal to the sum of both 
total estimated total cost-sharing savings (C.2.b.vi.) and estimated total premium savings 
(C.2.c.vi.). Carriers shall provide a narrative description of any discrepancies between 
estimated total claims savings and the sum of estimated total cost-sharing savings and 
estimated total premium savings. 
a. 
Calculation of Carrier Claims Savings from Upper Payment Limits: Each carrier 
shall provide to the Board the following information for each prescription drug 
with a UPL using the “Prescription Drug Affordability Board Carrier Use of 
Savings Template” spreadsheet located on the Board’s website. 
i. 
The utilization of each prescription drug with a UPL in the preceding plan 
year, expressed as the total utilization per 1000 members per year and 
report for each prescription drug with a UPL the reported measurement, 
such as “per treatment”, “per dose”, “per 30-day supply”;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-9 
Division of Insurance 
 
19 
ii. 
The estimated utilization of each prescription drug assuming there was 
no upper payment limit in the preceding plan year, expressed as the total 
estimated utilization per 1000 members per year and report for each 
prescription drug with a UPL the reported measurement, such as “per 
treatment”, “per dose”, “per 30- day supply”. The carrier shall provide the 
calculations for how the estimated utilization per 1000 members per year 
were determined along with a narrative description; 
iii. 
The cost per utilization for each prescription drug with a UPL; 
iv. 
The estimated cost per utilization of each prescription drug assuming 
there was no upper payment limit in the preceding plan year. The carrier 
shall provide the calculations for how the estimated costs per utilization 
were determined along with a narrative description, including an 
explanation of any estimated trend used to determine the estimated cost; 
v. 
Total cost per member per month for each prescription drug with a UPL; 
vi. 
Estimated total cost per member per month without a UPL for each 
prescription drug with a UPL; 
vii. 
Estimated total savings per member per month for each prescription drug 
with a UPL; 
viii. 
Estimated total claims savings, per member per month for all prescription 
drugs with a UPL; and 
ix. 
Estimated total claims savings for all prescription drugs with a UPL. 
b. 
Reduction of Consumer Out-of-Pocket Costs Resulting from Carrier Claims 
Savings. Each carrier shall provide to the Board the following information for 
each prescription drug with a UPL using the “Prescription Drug Affordability 
Board Carrier Use of Savings Template” spreadsheet located on the Board’s 
website. 
i. 
Whether each prescription drug with a UPL is subject to consumer copay 
or coinsurance; 
ii. 
Cost-sharing amount for each prescription drug with a UPL that the 
consumer is responsible for, prior to the consumer satisfying their out-of-
pocket maximum; 
iii. 
Estimated cost-sharing amount for the prescription drug assuming there 
was no upper payment limit in the preceding plan year. The carrier shall 
provide the calculations for how the estimated cost-sharing was 
determined along with a narrative description, including if the estimated 
cost-sharing was based on cost sharing from a previous year, and any 
trend assumptions, if applicable; 
iv. 
Estimated total cost-sharing savings for each prescription drug with a 
UPL; 
v. 
Estimated cost-sharing savings, per member per month for all 
prescription drugs with a UPL; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-9 
Division of Insurance 
 
20 
vi. 
Estimated total cost-sharing savings for all prescription drugs with a UPL. 
c. 
Reduction of Consumer Premiums Resulting from Carrier Claims Savings. Each 
carrier shall provide to the Board the following information for each prescription 
drug with a UPL using the “Prescription Drug Affordability Board Carrier Use of 
Savings Template” spreadsheet located on the Board’s website. 
i. 
Total allowed paid claims amount for each prescription drug with a UPL; 
ii. 
Estimated total allowed paid claims amount without a UPL for each 
prescription drug with a UPL; 
iii. 
Premium savings per member per month due to implementation of a 
UPL for each prescription drug with a UPL; 
iv. 
Total premium impact expressed as a percentage due to implementation 
of the UPL for each prescription drug with a UPL; 
v. 
Estimated total premium savings, per member per month for all 
prescription drugs with a UPL; and 
vi. 
Estimated total premium savings for all prescription drugs with a UPL. 
3. 
Savings Description Report 
Carriers, state entities, and optional participating plans shall prioritize the reduction of 
out-of-pocket costs for consumers and provide a detailed analysis and description of the 
out-of-pocket cost savings achieved during the preceding plan year for each prescription 
drug for which the Board has established a UPL. The analysis shall include at a 
minimum: 
a. 
An explanation of how total claims savings were achieved; 
b. 
An explanation of how total claims savings were used to reduce out-of-pocket 
costs for prescription drugs including prescription drugs subject to an upper 
payment limit and prescription drugs not subject to an upper payment limit, and, 
as appropriate, any reductions in premiums; and 
c. 
Any changes made to the plan formulary resulting from the Board establishing a 
UPL, including removing or adding prescription drugs to the formulary or 
changing tiering of a prescription drug. 
D. 
Confidentiality 
Reports submitted to the Board pursuant to section 10-16-1410(1)-(3), C.R.S., may contain trade secret 
or confidential commercial or financial information such that the information is not subject to the Colorado 
Open Records Act, as determined after review by the Board. A carrier, state entity, and optional 
participating plan that submits a report pursuant to this part 5 shall clearly identify any such information in 
its report that it asserts is not public as “confidential” and provide a justification for the assertion of 
confidentiality. Any information not marked as confidential or otherwise confidential under state law may 
be disclosed pursuant to the Colorado Open Records Act.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-9 
Division of Insurance 
 
21 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rules Parts 1, 2 eff. 03/30/2022. 
Part 5 eff. 10/15/2022. 
Parts 1, 3 eff. 01/14/2023. 
Part 4 eff. 03/17/2023. 
Rules 1.1 C, 4.1 C.1.a, 4.1 D.1 eff. 11/14/2023. Part 2 repealed eff. 11/14/2023. 
Parts 1, 3 eff. 01/30/2025.
