---
id: "3_CCR_702-8"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "3 CCR 702-8"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=10358&fileName=3%20CCR%20702-8&type=pdf"
---

#### 3_CCR_702-8. 3 CCR 702-8

1 
DEPARTMENT OF REGULATORY AGENCIES 
Division of Insurance 
CONCERNING TITLE INSURANCE 
3 CCR 702-8 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Regulation 8-1-1 
TITLE INSURANCE RATES & FEES 
Section 1 
Authority 
Section 2 
Scope and Purpose 
Section 3 
Applicability 
Section 4 
Definitions 
Section 5 
Rules Regarding Rate and Fee Filing Requirements 
Section 6 
Rules Regarding Rates and Fees 
Section 7 
Severability 
Section 8 
Enforcement 
Section 9 
Effective Date 
Section 10 
History 
Appendix A 
Title Insurance Closing and Settlement Fee Justification Form 
Appendix B 
Title Insurance Closing and Settlement Fee Filing Agency Fee Sheet for Consumers 
Appendix C 
Title Insurance Rate Justification Form - Side by Side - New Rates 
Appendix D 
Title Insurance Rate Justification Form - Side by Side – Amended or Withdrawn 
Appendix E 
Title Insurance Closing Settlement Fee Justification Form – Side by Side – New Fees 
Appendix F 
Title Insurance Closing Settlement Fee Justification Form – Side by Side – Amended or 
 
Withdrawn 
Appendix G 
Title Insurance Rate Justification 
Appendix H 
Rate Cover Letter 
Appendix I 
Fee Cover Letter 
Section 1 
Authority 
This regulation is promulgated and adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance under the authority of §§ 
10-1-108(7), 10-1-109, 10-3-1110, 10-4-403, 10-4-404, 10-11-118 C.R.S. 
Section 2 
Scope and Purpose 
The purpose of this regulation is to ensure that title insurance rates and fees are not excessive, 
inadequate or unfairly discriminatory. This regulation contains filing requirements for both title insurance 
companies and title insurance agents. This regulation ensures that consumers receive the benefits of 
competition in the area of title insurance and ensures consumer protection. 
Section 3 
Applicability 
This regulation governs title entities and does not extend the regulatory authority of the Colorado Division 
of Insurance (“Division”) to any person other than title entities or persons transacting the business of title 
insurance. 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
2 
Section 4 
Definitions 
A. 
“Business of title insurance” shall have the same meaning as set forth in § 10-11-102(3), C.R.S. 
B. 
“Division” means, for the purposes of this regulation, the Colorado Division of Insurance. 
C. 
“Fee” means, for purposes of this regulation only, the amount other than the rate (see subsection 
F below) charged by a title entity for services performed pursuant to the business of title 
insurance as defined in § 10-11-102, C.R.S. 
D. 
“Justification” means, for the purposes of this regulation, information that establishes the rate or 
fee is not excessive, inadequate, or unfairly discriminatory pursuant to §10-4-403, C.R.S. This 
information must qualify, quantify, and demonstrate the facts and figures to support, defend, and 
substantiate a proposed rate or fee. 
E. 
“Person” has the same meaning as found at §10-2-103(8), C.R.S. 
F. 
“Rate” means, for purposes of this regulation, expenses as defined in § 10-4-402(1.5), C.R.S., 
together with the pure premium rate as defined in § 10-4-402(2.4), C.R.S., and includes 
production expenses, profit, and commissions, in accordance with § 10-4-403, C.R.S. 
G. 
“Title insurance agency” shall have the same meaning as found at § 10-11-102(8.5), C.R.S. 
H. 
“Title insurance agent” shall have the same meaning as found at § 10-11-102(9), C.R.S. 
I. 
"Title insurance company” shall have the same meaning as found at § 10-11-102(10), C.R.S. 
J. 
“Title insurance entity” shall have the same meaning as found at § 10-11-102(11), C.R.S. 
Section 5 
Rules Regarding Rate and Fee Filing Requirements 
A. 
Each title insurance entity must submit a complying filing electronically, in a format prescribed by 
the Commissioner, with an effective date that is at least thirty (30) days after the date the Division 
receives the filing electronically. 
1. 
A title insurance company’s filing must include justification for any new or amended rate 
or fee being placed on file that a consumer may be charged. 
2. 
A title insurance entity’s filing must include justification for any new or amended fee being 
placed on file that a consumer may be charged. 
3. 
Each rate or fee filing must include information outlined in Sections 5.C.3 and 5.D.3. 
Failure to provide the information in Sections 5.C.3 and 5.D.3 will render the filing 
incomplete. Incomplete filings are deficient. Deficient filings that are not rectified will be 
rejected on or before the 30th day after receipt by the Division. 
4. 
A rate or fee filing that does not include an effective date at least 30 days after the date 
the Division receives the filing will be considered deficient. The title insurance company 
can rectify the deficiency to include an effective date that is more than 30 days after the 
filing date. However, a failure to rectify this deficiency will result in the rejection of the rate 
or fee.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
3 
5. 
Any deficiency will be identified and communicated through the System for Electronic 
Rate and Form Filings (SERFF) database to the title insurance entity on or before the 
15th day after receipt. Filings that do not include the required information to rectify the 
identified deficiency will be rejected on or before the 30th day after receipt by the Division. 
B. 
Title insurance agencies or title insurance agents that use multiple title insurance companies as 
underwriters must place on file and justify their own fees and may not have the fees placed on file 
by the underwriter on their behalf. 
C. 
General Rate Filing Requirements 
1. 
Each title insurance company must submit all rate filings electronically in SERFF. 
2. 
Each filing must be received by the Division at least thirty (30) days prior to the effective 
date of the new or amended rates. 
3. 
Each filing must include justification for the new or amended rate being submitted. 
Justification must include data to support the rate. Justification includes, but is not limited 
to: 
a. 
Expense provisions – data must clearly describe the amount of the fixed and/or 
variable expense provision and how this provision is to be accounted for in the 
final rate. This includes an itemization of actual or average expenses associated 
with each rate. Examples of some expenses include but are not limited to: 
amounts retained by or commissions paid to agents; claims; taxes; personnel; 
office space; office equipment; supplies; other overhead; and vendor services, 
etc.; 
b. 
Expected losses and loss ratios; or a rationale as to why such losses or loss 
ratios are not applicable. If expected losses and loss ratios are not provided in 
the initial filing, such data must be provided consistent with Section 5.C.4. for 
amended rates or Section 5.C.5 for new rates; 
c. 
Rate history listing the effective date and percentage amount of any rate changes 
made in the past three (3) years for the rate(s) being changed. If the last rate 
change was more than three (3) years ago, then the effective date, SERFF filing 
number, and percentage of change are required; 
d. 
Methodologies and material assumptions in developing the rate; or a rationale as 
to why such methodologies or material assumptions are not applicable. If 
methodologies or material assumption data are not provided in the initial filing, 
such data must be provided consistent with Section 5.C.4. for amended rates or 
Section 5.C.5 for new rates; 
e. 
The amount and description of all profit and contingencies built into the rate; or a 
rationale as to why such profit and contingencies are not applicable. If profit and 
contingencies data are not provided in the initial filing, such data must be 
provided consistent with Section 5.C.4. for amended rates or Section 5.C.5 for 
new rates; 
f. 
A description of the rate and any and all services must be provided in the rate 
manual. For example, when submitting a “bundled rate”, include a line item for 
each service included in the bundle;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
4 
g. 
If a comparative analysis is used as a portion of the rate justification, the insurer 
must include in the analysis the names of other insurers used in the analysis, and 
must demonstrate how the rates being compared are comparable in services and 
expenses; and 
h. 
Any other determining factor used to develop the final rate. 
i. 
If any of the above referenced justification information (a-h) is not provided, then 
the Rate Cover Letter found in Appendix H will be required at the time of filing. 
4. 
Each amended rate filing shall contain a side-by-side comparison of the rating manual 
indicating the changes made in the current filing, the rate(s) prior to the change, and the 
new or amended rate(s). The comparison should include three columns: the first 
containing the current rates; the second containing the proposed rate; and the third 
containing percentage increase or decrease of each proposed change. If the proposed 
rates are not replacing existing rates, then the filing must specifically state that the rates 
proposed are new rates. The format in which the new rates shall be filed with the Division 
can be found in Appendix C of this regulation. The format in which the amended or 
withdrawn rates shall be filed with the Division can be found in Appendix D of this 
regulation. 
5. 
The introduction of a new rate shall contain credible company experience to support the 
reasonableness of the rate. Any new rate that does not include specific Colorado data will 
require the title insurance company to submit a new filing no later than one year to 
include Colorado historical information in the justification for the new rate. If proper 
Colorado historical information is not available, a filing must be made annually from the 
effective date of the rate to include any new Colorado historical information justifying the 
new rate until credible experience has been established. 
6. 
If one or more of the justification items are not provided in the proposed filing, the title 
insurance company must explain and support with specificity the rationale for not 
including the listed piece(s) of information in the filing. The Division will determine 
whether the proposed rationale for omission is valid. If the Division concludes that the 
omission is invalid, the title insurance entity will submit the required justification within 
fifteen (15) calendar days from the date of the objection letter. 
7. 
The “Title Insurance Rate Justification Form”, which is found in Appendix G. of this 
regulation, is required to be filed with the Division and includes insurance rates a 
consumer may be charged during a real estate transaction. 
8. 
A redline copy and final copy of the rating manual with the proposed new or amended 
rates. 
D. 
General Fee Filling Requirements 
1. 
Each title insurance entity must submit all fee filings electronically in SERFF if the title 
insurance entity charges fees. 
2. 
Each filing must be received by the Division at least thirty (30) days prior to the effective 
date of the new or amended fee. 
3. 
Each filing must include justification for the new or amended fee being submitted. 
Justification must include data to support the fee. Justification includes, but is not limited 
to:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
5 
a. 
An itemization of any expenses associated to the new or amended fee. 
Expenses may include, but are not limited to: the actual or average expense of 
the fee, personnel, operations, leases/rent, equipment, business insurance, 
vendor services, office supplies, miscellaneous costs, and any pass-through 
expense; 
b. 
The amount and description of all profit and contingencies built into the fee. If 
profit and contingency is zero for a particular fee, zero must be included in the 
filing; 
c. 
The “Title Insurance Closing and Settlement Fee Filing Agency Fee Sheet for 
Consumers” which is found in Appendix B of this regulation, is required to be filed 
with the Division and includes a general description of what is included in the 
services provided for the new or amended fee. For example, when submitting a 
“bundled fee”, include all of the services and fees that are included in the bundle; 
d. 
If a comparative analysis is used as a portion of the fee justification, the analysis 
must include the names of other title insurance entity(ies) used in the analysis 
and must demonstrate how the fees being compared are comparable in services 
and expenses; 
e. 
Fee history listing the effective date and percentage amount of any fee changes 
made in the past three (3) years for the fees being changed. If the last fee 
change was more than three (3) years ago, then the effective date, SERFF 
number or filing number, and percentage of change are required; and 
f. 
Any other determining factor used to develop the final fee. 
g. 
If any of the above referenced justification information (a-f) is not provided, then 
the Fee Cover Letter found in Appendix I will be required at the time of the filing. 
4. 
Each amended fee filing shall contain a side-by-side comparison of the fee schedule 
indicating the changes made in the current filing, the fee(s) prior to the change, and the 
new or amended fee(s). The comparison should include three columns: the first 
containing the current fee; the second containing the proposed fee; and the third 
containing percentage increase or decrease of each proposed change. If the proposed 
fees are not replacing existing fees, then the filing must specifically state that the fees 
proposed are new fees. The format in which the new fees shall be filed with the Division 
can be found in Appendix E of this regulation. The format in which the amended or 
withdrawn fees shall be filed with the Division can be found in Appendix F of this 
regulation. 
5. 
The introduction of a new fee shall contain credible experience to support the 
reasonableness of the fee. Any new fee that does not include specific Colorado data will 
require the title insurance entity to submit a new filing no later than one year to include 
Colorado historical information in the justification for the new fee. If proper Colorado 
historical information is not available, a filing must be made annually from the effective 
date to include any new Colorado historical information justifying the new fee until 
credible experience has been established.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
6 
6. 
If one or more of the justification items are not provided in the proposed filing, the title 
insurance entity must explain and support with specificity the rationale for not including 
the listed piece(s) of information in the filing. The Division will determine whether the 
proposed rationale for omission is valid. If the Division concludes that the omission is 
invalid, the title insurance entity will submit the required justification within fifteen (15) 
calendar days from the date of the objection letter. 
7. 
The “Title Insurance Closing and Settlement Fee Justification Form” which is found in 
Appendix A of this regulation, is required to be filed with the Division, and includes 
commonly used fees a consumer may be charged during a real estate transaction. Each 
title insurance agent and title insurance company, if the title insurance company charges 
fees, must place on file his or her fees and any justification used by the title insurance 
agent. 
8. 
A final copy of the fee sheet with the proposed new or amended fee. 
Section 6 
Rules Regarding Rates and Fees 
A. 
Every title insurance entity shall make readily available for review by the public its schedule of 
effective rates and fees for all issued title insurance policies and closing and settlement charges, 
including endorsements, guarantees and other forms of title insurance coverage. Either the 
schedule or a notice explaining the schedule’s availability shall be displayed in a public place in 
the title insurance entity’s offices. Copies of such schedules shall be furnished to the public upon 
request. The title insurance entity may impose a charge for copies of schedules, but such 
charges shall not exceed the actual cost per page of reproducing the schedules, and copies shall 
be provided within three (3) business days of receipt of a written request. 
B. 
All rate cards and schedules of effective rates and fees shall denote, in a clear and conspicuous 
manner, the title insurance company and/or agent that has filed the title insurance rates and fees 
shown and the effective date of these rates and fees. 
C. 
If justified, title insurance entities may place on file different rates and fees for title insurance 
policies and/or closing and settlement services in different counties, and shall include the 
effective date of the rates and fees in the schedule. 
D. 
A title insurance company may not use different rates for different title insurance entities for the 
same risk in the same county. 
E. 
Rates and fees shall not apply to title insurance commitments and/or policies or closing and 
settlement services ordered prior to the effective date of such rate or fee. 
F. 
No title insurance entity shall quote any rate or fee to any person which is more or less than what 
is currently available to others for the same type of title insurance policy or service for the same 
amount of insurance, insuring title to property in the same county, same risk and involving the 
same factors, and as set forth in its current schedule of rates and fees. 
G. 
No title insurance entity may charge a rate or fee unless it is on file with the Division and in effect 
at the time that the title insurance commitment and/or policy or closing and settlement service is 
ordered. 
H. 
Title insurance companies may charge additional rates when unusual conditions are 
encountered, special or unusual risks are insured against, and for special services rendered in 
connection with the issuance of a title insurance policy and/or closing and settlement services. If 
additional rates are charged, the title insurance companies shall, in their rate schedules, disclose 
the terms and conditions for imposing said additional rates.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
7 
I. 
Any title insurance commitment charge must have a reasonable relation to the cost of production 
of the title insurance commitment and cannot be less than the minimum rate or fee for the type of 
policy to be issued, as set forth in the insurer's current schedule of rates and fees. 
J. 
Any fee charged for a vesting deed, instrument of public record, an insured closing letter, closing 
protection letter, or for additional information related thereto, must be the same for all persons 
and not charged on an unfairly discriminatory basis and must be filed with the Division. 
K. 
Every title insurance entity shall file with the Division a “Title Insurance Closing and Settlement 
Fee Filing Agency Fee Sheet for Consumers” form, which is found in Appendix B of this 
regulation, with each fee filing if the title insurance entity charges fees. The sheet will be posted to 
the Division’s website for consumer use. 
L. 
Prohibited Practices 
The Division has determined that certain rating practices lead to excessive, inadequate or unfairly 
discriminatory rates and are unfair methods of competition and/or unfair or deceptive acts or 
practices in the business of insurance. Therefore, in accordance with § 10-3-1110(1), C.R.S., it is 
considered an unfairly discriminatory practice for a company to include, in any component of a 
rate, any amount intended to recover losses or expenses incurred in another state or jurisdiction 
due to any referendum, law or regulation which requires a general reduction in rates. This 
subsection shall not prohibit the use of national, regional or other industry data as a necessary 
and actuarially supportable supplement to Colorado data that is not fully credible. 
Section 7 
Mandatory Obligations and Prohibited Fees 
A. 
General. 
1. 
Agreements between the title insurance companies and title insurance agents/title 
insurance agencies must include a commission schedule which lists the title insurance 
agent’s and title insurance agency’s compensation for soliciting and acquiring title 
insurance business. 
2. 
Title insurance companies subsequently include these commissions and/or other 
acquisition expenses in their comprehensive rate filings and must justify these expenses. 
3. 
If title insurance agents or title insurance agencies charge a separate fee for the title 
insurance product in addition to those included as commissions in the title insurance 
companies’ rate filings, the premiums could be considered excessive. 
B. 
Title insurance agents, title insurance agencies, and title insurance companies are prohibited 
from charging separate fees in addition to those contemplated in the rate filing and included in 
their commissions for the solicitation and procurement of insurance products or for servicing 
existing insurance policies. These services may include, but are not limited to: 
1. 
Quoting premiums; 
2. 
Issuing or signing policies; 
3. 
Examinations and searches of title and mailing policies; 
4. 
Correspondence and other bookkeeping and clerical work; and 
5. 
Issuing certificates of insurance and endorsements, except those endorsements placed 
on file with the Division.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
8 
C. 
Insurance producers are also prohibited from charging fees for purchasing new computer 
equipment, adding new sales facilities, or other overhead expenses associated with the 
solicitation or procurement of insurance products or the servicing of existing insurance policies. 
D. 
The prohibitions in this Section 7 shall not apply to insurance wholesale intermediaries. 
E. 
This Section does not prohibit title insurance entities from charging fees for the closing and 
settlement of a real estate transaction. 
F. 
Title insurance companies may file a properly justified rate with the Division that allows for an 
increased rate for transactions that require additional search or resources. Title insurance agents 
and title insurance agencies must charge the rate the title insurance company has on file, if any. 
Title insurance agents and title insurance agencies are prohibited from charging a fee for 
extraordinary circumstances. 
Section 8 
Severability 
If any provision of this regulation or the application of it to any person or circumstance is for any reason 
held to be invalid, the remainder of this regulation shall not be affected. 
Section 9 
Enforcement 
Noncompliance with this regulation may result in the imposition of any of the sanctions made available in 
the Colorado statutes pertaining to the business of insurance, or other laws, which include the imposition 
of civil penalties, issuance of cease and desist orders, and/or suspensions or revocation of license, 
subject to the requirements of due process. 
Section 10 
Effective Date 
This regulation shall become effective on August 15, 2020. 
Section 11 
History 
New regulation effective August 15, 2020.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
9 
Appendix A 
Title Insurance Closing and Settlement Fee Justification Form 
Company Name: 
Address: 
Fees listed for closings in the following counties:
Fee Type: 
Current 
Fee 
Filing
Proposed 
Filing 
Fee
% of 
Change
$0
$0
0%
Other:
Profit (Required)
Justification is REQUIRED
Total Cost and Profit
Personnel, Salaries, Benefits
Office Space: Rents/Leases
Office Equipment & Software
Office Supplies
Vendor Services
Business Insurance
Appendix A: Title Insurance Closing and Settlement Fee Justification Form                              
  In accordance with § 10-11-118 (2), C.R.S. this form must be completed and submitted with any 
amended fee 
Other:
Other:
Other:
Fee Change Type
Effective Date

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
10 
Appendix B 
Title Insurance Closing and Settlement Fee Filing Agency Fee Sheet for 
Consumers 
Address:
Fee Type:
Basic Fee
Closing Fee
Fees listed for closings in the following counties:
Appendix B: Title Insurance Closing and Settlement Fee Filing Agency Fee Sheet for 
Consumers
In accordance with § 10-11-118 (2), C.R.S. this form must be completed and submitted with 
any amended or new bundled fee. 
Company Name:
Effective Date
E-Recording
Flat Rate Recording
Other:
Other:
Courier/Express
Release/Tracking
Wire
Cashier's Check
Tax Certificate
Other:
Other:
Use "N/A" if there is no Basic fee.
Other:
Fee Change Type
Justification is REQUIRED
Other:
Bundled Fee
Courier/Express
Release/Tracking
Wire
Cashier's Check
Tax Certificate
Loan Doc Retrieval
HOA Doc Retrieval
E-Recording
Loan Doc Retrieval
HOA Doc Retrieval

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
11 
Appendix C 
Title Insurance Rate Justification Form - Side by Side - New Rates 
Company Name: 
Address: 
New 
Rate
Is there 
Colorado 
History for this 
Rate?
Needs to be refiled 
in one year for 
history.
Rate: 
Year
State
Effective 
Date
% of 
Change
Rate: 
Year
State
Effective 
Date
% of 
Change
Please supply Rate History for at least the last 3 years. 
Rate Change Type
NEW
Effective Date
Rate / Endorsement
Appendix C: Title Insurance Rate Justification Form - Side by Side - New Rates                                              
  In accordance with  § 10-11-118 (2), C.R.S. this form must be completed and submitted with any new rates
Add Row
Add Table

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
12 
Appendix D 
Title Insurance Rate Justification Form - Side by Side – Amended or Withdrawn 
Company Name: 
Address: 
Current 
Rate
New Rate
% of 
Change
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
List all amended rates individually. If additional lines are needed they 
can be added by clicking the "Add Row" button. 
This is the rate that you are currently charging.
This is the rate that you are filing. 
This will calculate automatically. 
Rate / Endorsement
Rate / Endorsement:
* Instructions *
New Rate:
Current Rate:
% of Change: 
Appendix D: Title Insurance Rate Justification Form - Side by Side - Amended or Withdrawn                     
  In accordance with § 10-11-118 (2), C.R.S. , this form must be completed and submitted with any amended or 
withdrawn rate
Rate Change Type
Effective Date
Add Row

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
13 
Appendix E 
Title Insurance Closing Settlement Fee Justification Form – Side by Side – New 
Fees 
Company Name: 
Address: 
New Fee
Is there 
Colorado 
History for this 
Fee?
Needs to be refiled 
in one year for 
history.
Fee
Year
State
Effective 
Date
% of 
Change
Fee
Year
State
Effective 
Date
% of 
Change
Please supply Fee History for at least the last 3 years. 
Fee Change Type
NEW
Effective Date
Fee Type
Appendix E: Title Insurance Closing and Settlement Fee Justification Form - Side by Side   - New Fees                         
  In accordance with § 10-11-118 (2), C.R.S., this form must be completed and submitted with any new fees
Add Row
Add Table

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
14 
Appendix F 
Title Insurance Closing Settlement Fee Justification Form – Side by Side – 
Amended or Withdrawn 
Company Name: 
Address: 
Current 
Fee
New Fee
% of 
Change
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
0%
List all amended/withdrawn fees individually. If additional lines are needed they
can be added by clicking the "Add Row" button. 
This is the fee that you are currently charging.
This is the fee that you are filing. 
This will calculate automatically. 
Fee Type
Fee Type
* Instructions *
New Fee:
Current Fee:
% of Change: 
Appendix F: Title Insurance Closing and Settlement Fee Justification Form - Side by Side - Amended or 
Withdrawn                                                                            
  In accordance with § 10-11-118 (2), C.R.S., this form must be completed and submitted with any amended or 
withdrawn fee
Fee Change Type
Effective Date
Add Row

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
15 
Appendix G 
Title Insurance Rate Summary Justification Form 
APPENDIX G 
** PUBLIC NOTICE ** 
Title Insurance Rate Summary Justification Form 
 
COMPANY NAME: __________ 
PROPOSED EFFECTIVE DATE: xx/xx/xxxx 
RATE TYPE: Name, premium, or endorsement 
COVERAGE RANGE: Purchase price range if applicable 
COUNTY: If more than one county is included, please list all counties included. 
OWNERS/LENDERS POLICY: Policy type 
REASON FOR FILING: Briefly describe the purpose of the filing.  
 
Are there new Rate Filings:        
**NOTE** All new rates will require that you refile in one year to establish history.  
 
 
OVERALL % RATE CHANGE: ____% 
EXPENSES: ATTACH EXHIBIT DETAILING AGENCY’S EXPENSE DATA AND/OR OTHER SUPPORT 
INFORMATION. (This table must be completed. Referencing another page will not be accepted.) 
TOTAL PRODUCTION EXPENSES 
% 
GENERAL EXPENSE 
% 
TAXES, LICENSES & FEES 
% 
UNDERWRITING PROFIT & CONTINGENCIES 
% 
EXPECTED LOSSES 
% 
OTHER: Enter description 
% 
TOTAL 
% 
FOR REVISED RATES: 
Please supply Rate History for at least the last 3 years.  
Year 
Effective Date 
Percentage of Change 
Year One 
Effective Date 
% 
Year Two 
Effective Date 
% 
Year Three Effective Date 
% 
    
If the last rate change was more than 3 years ago, then the following is required.  
Effective Date 
SERFF Filing Number 
Percentage of Change 
Click here to enter text. 
Click here to enter text. 
Click here to enter text.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
16 
Appendix H 
Rate Cover Letter 
** If Rate history has not been included, please explain the reason why it is not needed. 
Appendix H: Rate Cover Letter
General Filing Requirements
not needed.
4. Has Rate history for the past three (3) years been included? 
1. Is your effective date 30 days from your submission date?
2. Are Expense provisions included? 
** If Expense provisions have not been supplied, please explain the reason why they are not needed. 
3. Are Expected losses and loss ratios included? 
** If Expected losses and loss ratios have not been supplied, please explain the reason why the are 
deficient and may be rejected. 
** If your effective date is not 30 days from your submission date, the filing will be considered 
7. Does your filing include any bundled rates? 
** If yes you must include in your manual which services are included in the bundled rate. 
** If you answered "Yes" please supply a comparative analysis including documentation verifying the
8. Are you adjusting your rates based on other companies in the area?
5. Has methodologies and material assumptions in developing the rate been included? 
6. Has profit and contingencies built into the rate been included? 
** Please explain the rationale if these items were not included. 
** Please explain the rationale is these items were not included. 
** Please explain. 
10. Are there any other determining factors you used to develop the final Rate? 
** If a red-line and final manual was not included, please explain the reason why it is not needed. 
9. Has a red-line and final manual been included with all changes? 
Rates for the other companies.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
17 
Appendix I 
Fee Cover Letter 
2. Are you adjusting your fees based on other companies in the area? 
Appendix I: Fee Cover Letter
General Filing Requirements
1. Is your effective date 30 days from your submission date? 
If you answered “Yes” please supply a comparative analysis, including documentation 
verifying the Fees for the other companies.
3. Are there any other determining factors you used to develop the final Fee? 
**If your effective date is not 30 days from your submission date, the filing will be 
considered deficient and may be rejected.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
18 
Regulation 8-1-2 
TITLE INSURANCE CONSUMER PROTECTION 
Section 1 
Authority 
Section 2 
Scope and Purpose 
Section 3 
Applicability 
Section 4 
Definitions 
Section 5 
Rules Regarding Consumer Protection 
Section 6 
Severability 
Section 7 
Enforcement 
Section 8 
Effective Date 
Section 9 
History 
Appendix A 
Good Funds Agreement 
Section 1 
Authority 
This regulation is promulgated and adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance under the authority of §§ 
10-1-108(7), 10-1-109, 10-3-131, and 10-3-1110, C.R.S. 
Section 2 
Scope and Purpose 
The purpose of this regulation is to ensure that consumers receive the benefits of competition in the area 
of title insurance and to ensure consumer protection. 
Section 3 
Applicability 
This regulation governs title entities and does not extend the regulatory authority of the Colorado Division 
of Insurance (“Division”) to any person other than title entities or persons transacting the business of title 
insurance. This regulation only applies to residential transactions. 
Section 4 
Definitions 
A. 
“Application for title insurance” means, for the purposes of this regulation, receipt by a licensed 
title entity of an order for a title insurance commitment or other title insurance products that 
contain information about all parties and details concerning a title insurance transaction. 
B. 
“Available for immediate withdrawal as a matter of right” has the same meaning as found at § 38-
35-125(1)(a), C.R.S. 
C. 
“Business of title insurance” has the same meaning as found at § 10-11-102(3), C.R.S. 
D. 
“Closing agent” means, for the purposes of this regulation, any and all persons employed or 
contracted to perform closing and settlement services on behalf of a title entity. 
E. 
“Closing instructions” or “written instructions” mean, for the purposes of this regulation, a 
document, signed by one (1) or more parties to a title insurance transaction, which purports to 
direct a title entity in the completion of settlement services. 
F. 
“Commitment” or “title commitment” mean, for the purposes of this regulation, a report furnished 
in connection with an application for title insurance, which is a statement of the requirements, 
terms, and conditions upon which the title insurance company is willing to insure an interest in a 
subject property. 
G. 
“Division” means, for the purposes of this regulation, the Colorado Division of Insurance.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
19 
H. 
“Error rate” means, for the purposes of this regulation, the percentage of applicable files reviewed 
during a market conduct action that contained one (1) or more exceptions or violations of the 
applicable statute or regulation. 
I. 
“Financial institution” has the same meaning as found at § 38-35-125, C.R.S. 
J. 
“Generic exceptions” means, for the purposes of this regulation, broad exceptions on a 
commitment or policy of title insurance that do not refer to a specific document or recording 
information and are not standard or preprinted exceptions or a specific exception. 
K. 
“Person” has the same meaning as found at § 10-2-103(8), C.R.S. 
L. 
“Rate”, for the purposes of this regulation, means expenses as defined in § 10-4-402(1.5), C.R.S., 
together with the pure premium rate as defined in § 10-4-402(2.4), C.R.S. and includes 
production expenses and commissions in accordance with § 10-4-403, C.R.S. 
M. 
“Settlement producer” has the same meaning as found at § 10-11-102(6.5), C.R.S., and does not 
include insurance producers as defined in § 10-2-103(6), C.R.S. 
N. 
“Settlement services” has the same meaning as found at § 10-11-102(6.7), C.R.S. 
O. 
“Specific exception” means, for the purposes of this regulation, exceptions that are known 
impairments for the subject property but the impairment does not appear in a reasonable 
examination of the property records for the property being insured. 
P. 
“Standard or preprinted exceptions” means, for the purposes of this regulation, those exceptions 
on title commitments and policies dealing with parties in possession, survey matters, mechanic’s 
liens, unpatented mining claims, patented or unpatented mineral reservations, water rights, 
mineral rights, mineral leases, mineral grants, taxes, and rights or encumbrances. 
Q. 
“Systemic error” means, for the purposes of this regulation, an exception or violation that is not 
determined using an error rate because it is inherent in the system or process of the title entity. 
R. 
“TBD commitment” means, for the purposes of this regulation, a report, in the form of a 
commitment, furnished prior to receipt of an application for title insurance, in which the buyer, 
sales amount, and loan amount, among other possible details, are not yet known. 
S. 
“Title entity” means, for the purposes of this regulation, title insurance agents, title insurance 
agencies and title insurance companies, unless otherwise stated in the regulation. 
T. 
“Title insurance agency” means, for the purposes of this regulation, a corporation, partnership, 
association, or foreign or domestic entity as defined in § 7-90-102, C.R.S., or other legal entity 
that transacts the business of title insurance. 
U. 
“Title insurance agent” has the same meaning as found at § 10-11-102(9), C.R.S. 
V. 
“Title insurance company” has the same meaning as found at § 10-11-102(10), C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
20 
Section 5 
Rules Regarding Consumer Protections 
A. 
In order to comply with the requirements of § 10-11-106, C.R.S., no title entity shall issue a 
commitment for title insurance without first performing, or causing to be performed, a reasonable 
examination of the property records for the property to be insured. An examination shall be 
considered reasonable if it conforms to written standards and practices as determined by the title 
insurance company that is insuring the transaction. Nothing contained herein shall permit a title 
insurance company to create written standards and practices that do not comply with sound 
underwriting principles. Nothing contained herein shall prohibit title insurance companies from 
developing separate examination standards for different types of transactions or geographical 
areas. 
B. 
Every title entity shall ensure that the title commitment, as may be amended or modified, fully 
discloses to all recipients the terms upon which title to the property will be insured, the extent of 
coverage proposed, all proposed title exceptions, and, in a clear and conspicuous manner, shall 
show whether the title commitment does or does not commit to insure over or delete those 
exceptions to the title specified therein, consistent with § 10-11-106, C.R.S. 
C. 
Every title entity shall ensure that the title commitment, as may be amended or modified, fully 
discloses the record vested owner as shown by the applicable county real estate records as of 
the effective date shown on the commitment. If a circumstance exists which requires a person 
other than the vested owner to be shown, the title entity shall disclose, in a clear and conspicuous 
manner, the reason(s) for the deviation from the available county real estate records. 
D. 
Every title entity shall ensure that, except for standard, or preprinted exceptions, or as set forth in 
Subsection E below, all proposed title exceptions on a title commitment for the issuance of an 
owner’s policy of title insurance make reference to the recording information of the document to 
be excepted from coverage. 
E. 
For owner’s policies of title insurance, if a title entity has conducted a reasonable examination of 
title and was unable to find recorded information for a known impairment, the title entity may 
make use of a specific exception if the title entity uses other identifiable information, including, but 
not limited to marks on a document, names of parties, and case numbers, that clearly identify and 
makes readily available to the consumer the instrument or information referenced in the specific 
exception. Nothing in this subsection may be construed to allow a title entity to avoid the 
requirement of conducting a reasonable examination of title. 
F. 
Whenever a title entity provides the closing and settlement service that is in conjunction with the 
issuance of an owner’s policy of title insurance, it shall update the title commitment from the date 
of issuance to be as reasonably close to the time of closing as permitted by the real estate 
records. Such update shall include all impairments of record at the time of closing or as close 
thereto as permitted by the real estate records. The title insurance company shall be responsible 
to the proposed insured(s) subject to the terms and conditions of the title commitment, other than 
the effective date of the title commitment, for all undisclosed matters that appear of record prior to 
the time of closing. 
G. 
As soon as reasonably practical prior to closing, every title entity shall notify in writing every 
prospective insured under an owner’s title commitment the circumstances under which the title 
insurance company is responsible for all matters which appear of record prior to the time of 
recording (commonly referred to as “Gap Coverage”). This notice shall be clear and conspicuous, 
reasonably understandable, and designed to call attention to its nature and significance.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
21 
H. 
Every title insurance company shall be responsible to the proposed insured(s) subject to the 
terms and conditions of the title commitment, other than the effective date of the title commitment, 
for all matters which appear of record prior to the time of recording whenever the title insurance 
company, or its agent, conducts the closing and settlement service that is in conjunction with its 
issuance of an owner’s policy of title insurance and is responsible for the recording and filing of 
legal documents resulting from the transaction which was closed. 
I. 
If a title entity undertakes to insure any person or entity against the possible adverse effect of any 
recorded lien, recorded encumbrance or other recorded interest, in accordance with § 10-11-106, 
C.R.S., and any other applicable law, it shall: 
1. 
Delete such recorded lien, recorded encumbrance or other recorded interest from the 
schedule of exceptions in its title commitment and have on hand funds, securities, a 
bonded obligation, or letter of credit payable to the order of said title entity, adequate to 
discharge such lien, encumbrance or other interest in the event said lien, encumbrance 
or other interest is perfected to the detriment or possible detriment of the person or entity 
insured, or any successor in interest to such person or entity; 
2. 
Insure over and reflect such recorded lien, recorded encumbrance or other recorded 
interest in the schedule of exceptions in its title commitment, and receive an appropriate 
indemnity from the responsible party; or 
3. 
Insure over the defect in accordance with the title entity’s sound underwriting practices 
and guidelines; and 
4. 
Not raise as a defense to any claim based on, or arising out of, the deletion or insurance 
over such defect or exception that the insured assumed, agreed to, or had knowledge of 
the said defect or exception. 
J. 
All title entities shall comply with the “good funds law” contained in § 38-35-125, C.R.S. In 
particular, no title entity that provides closing and settlement services for any real estate 
transaction shall disburse funds as a part of such services until the funds to be disbursed have 
been received and are either: available for immediate withdrawal as a matter of right from the 
financial institution in which the funds have been deposited; or available for immediate withdrawal 
as a consequence of the agreement of the financial institution in which the funds are to be 
deposited or the financial institution upon which the funds are drawn. Any such agreement shall 
be made with or for the benefit of the person or entity providing closing and settlement services 
for a real estate transaction. 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 5.J., the entity providing closing and 
settlement services may advance funds, not to exceed five hundred dollars, on behalf of 
interested parties for the transaction to pay incidental fees for such items as tax 
certificates and recording costs or to cover minor changes in the closing adjustments. 
2. 
A title entity may satisfy the requirements of this Section 5.J. by use of the Good Funds 
Agreement appended as Appendix A, without substantial amendment or modification. 
This is the only agreement approved by the Division for such purpose. 
3. 
Nothing in this Section 5.J. shall be deemed to prohibit the recording of documents 
before such funds are available provided all necessary parties to the transaction consent 
in writing thereto. 
4. 
The requirements of Section 5.J. above may be waived by the seller in the real estate 
transaction if:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
22 
a. 
It is specified as part of written closing instructions in advance of closing that the 
seller waives the requirements set forth in Section 5.J. above and that the person 
or entity conducting the closing, unless such person or entity is the seller, is not 
to handle the receipt and disbursement of funds as part of the closing; and 
b. 
Any holder of a lien encumbering the property up to the time of closing agrees, in 
writing, to such waiver and further agrees, in writing, to release such lien 
immediately upon receipt of a check from the closing drawn in the amount of the 
outstanding indebtedness secured by such lien. Such an agreement shall 
obligate the lien holder to release such lien regardless of whether the payoff 
check received has been or will be honored. 
5. 
Any seller who so requests as part of written closing instructions in advance of closing, 
shall be entitled to receive the proceeds of closing in a cashier’s check or in funds 
electronically transferred to an account specified by the seller. 
K. 
No title entity shall provide closing and settlement services without receiving written instructions 
from all necessary parties. All amendments to existing written instructions must be in writing. 
L. 
Every title entity shall be responsible for properly conducting each closing or settlement service 
and recording such documents as it is directed in writing to record in conjunction therewith, for 
each transaction for which such title entity charges and collects a fee. 
1. 
All documents must be submitted for recording within seven (7) calendar days of: 
a. 
Receipt of the document to be recorded; or 
b. 
The disbursement date of the transaction. 
2. 
In the event incorrect or incomplete documents are received, the title entity shall have 
seven (7) calendar days, from receipt of the corrected or complete documents, to submit 
the documents for recording. 
3. 
A title entity shall be deemed in compliance if they submit the recording to a third party 
electronic recording vendor or the county recorder’s office. 
M. 
Every title entity shall notify in writing, at the time of delivery of the title commitment, every 
prospective insured in an owner's title commitment for a single family residence (including a 
condominium or townhouse unit) of that title entity's general requirements for the deletion of an 
exception or exclusion to coverage relating to unfiled mechanic’s or materialman’s liens, except 
when said coverage or insurance is extended to the insured under the terms of the policy. This 
notice shall be clear and conspicuous, reasonably understandable, and designed to call attention 
to its nature and significance. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing contained in this Section 
5.M. shall be deemed to impose any requirement upon any title insurance company to provide 
mechanic’s or materialman’s lien coverage. 
N. 
Every title entity shall issue and deliver to the insured, the title insurance policy within ninety (90) 
calendar days of: 
1. 
The effective date of the owner’s title insurance policy if the title entity is providing closing 
and settlement services for the transaction; or 
2. 
The satisfaction of the terms, conditions and requirements of the title commitment if the 
title entity is not providing closing and settlement services for the transaction.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
23 
3. 
The title entity is not responsible for compliance with this subsection if the title entity has 
not received payment for the title insurance premium. 
O. 
A title insurance company shall notify the Division in writing within thirty (30) calendar days, if at 
any point a title insurance company becomes aware that a title insurance agent or title insurance 
agency fails to issue and deliver to the insured the title policy, in compliance with Section 5.N. 
above. 
P. 
Every title entity is responsible for: 
1. 
Ensuring that rates charged to insureds for the title entity’s products by the following 
persons are the same as the rates that the title entity has filed with the Division: 
a. 
The title entity’s employees; and 
b. 
Title insurance agents with whom the title entity has an employment relationship, 
a contract, or an agency agreement. 
2. 
Pursuant to § 10-3-131, C.R.S., when the following persons are acting on the title entity’s 
behalf, any unfair business practice, when the title entity knew or should have known 
about the unfair business practice: 
a. 
The title entity’s employees; and 
b. 
Title insurance agents with whom the title entity has an employment relationship, 
a contract, or an agency agreement. 
3. 
In all other areas, exercising reasonable efforts to ensure that the acts of its employees 
and other authorized agents, including closing agents and title insurance agencies, which 
are performed within the scope of the person’s employment, contract, agency agreement, 
or closing protection letter, comply with all laws and regulations concerning the business 
of title insurance. 
a. 
For the purposes of market conduct actions involving a title insurance company 
conducted pursuant to Part 3 of Article 1 of Title 10 C.R.S., with the exception of 
systemic errors, the Division will consider an error rate that exceeds 7% for 
claims and an error rate that exceeds 10% for other issues, by employees and 
agents of the title insurance company performed within the scope of the person’s 
employment, contract, agency agreement, or closing protection letter, to be a 
reportable exception that the title insurance company failed to conduct 
reasonable efforts to ensure its employees and agents complied with the laws 
and/or regulations at issue in the market conduct action. 
b. 
For the purposes of market conduct actions involving a title insurance agent or 
agencies conducted pursuant to Part 3 of Article 1 of Title 10, C.R.S., with the 
exception of systemic errors, the Division will consider an error rate that exceeds 
7% for claims and an error rate that exceeds 10% for other issues to be a 
reportable exception. 
Q. 
Every title entity shall maintain adequate documentation and records sufficient to show its 
compliance with this regulation and Title 10 of the Colorado Revised Statutes for a period of not 
less than seven (7) years, except as otherwise permitted by law.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
24 
Section 6 
Severability 
If any provision of this regulation or the application of it to any person or circumstance is for any reason 
held to be invalid, the remainder of this regulation shall not be affected. 
Section 7 
Enforcement 
Noncompliance with this regulation may result in the imposition of any of the sanctions made available in 
the Colorado statutes pertaining to the business of insurance, or other laws, which include the imposition 
of civil penalties, issuance of cease and desist orders, and/or suspensions or revocation of license, 
subject to the requirements of due process. 
Section 8 
Effective Date 
This regulation shall become effective on September 14, 2022. 
Section 9 
History 
New regulation effective October 1, 2015. 
Amended regulation effective September 14, 2022.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
25 
Appendix A 
GOOD FUNDS AGREEMENT 
THIS GOOD FUNDS AGREEMENT (“Agreement”) is entered into as of this ____ day of 
__________________________, by and among ___________________________ (“Mortgage Lender”), 
______________________ (“Closing Agent”),__________________ (“Bank”) and 
________________________________________ (“Warehouse Lender”). 
RECITALS 
A. 
Colorado Revised Statutes Section 38-35-125 (the “Statute”) establishes certain requirements for 
the collection and availability of funds which must be satisfied to enable a provider of closing and 
settlement services for real estate transactions to disburse such funds; 
B. 
The Mortgage Lender is presently engaged in the making of one or more loans (“Loan or Loans”) 
to individuals or entities (“Borrowers”) or purchasing Loans made by other lenders. The Loans to 
which this Agreement pertains shall in every case be evidenced by a promissory note (“Note”) 
executed by the pertinent Borrower and secured by a priority mortgage or deed of trust 
(“Mortgage”) on real property improved by a 1-4 family residence. 
C. 
The Bank is a “financial institution”, as defined in the Statute. 
D. 
The Bank/Warehouse Lender has extended a credit facility to the Mortgage Lender, pursuant to 
which the Bank/Warehouse Lender has agreed, upon certain terms and conditions, to advance 
funds (an “Advance”) to the Mortgage Lender for the purpose of enabling the Mortgage Lender to 
make Loans. Each Advance by the Bank/Warehouse Lender shall be secured by the Note and 
Mortgage executed in connection with the Loan for which the Advance is made. The term 
“Bank/Warehouse Lender” shall mean (i) the Bank if no separate warehouse lender is a party or 
(ii) the Warehouse Lender if, the warehouse lender is not the Bank. 
E. 
In order to comply with the Statute, the parties wish to agree upon an arrangement whereby the 
Closing Agent may, immediately upon the closing of Loans, disburse funds delivered to it in 
connection with such closings. 
F. 
The Bank may issue Reservation Numbers (as defined below) for Loans to be funded by the 
Mortgage Lender’s check drawn upon the Bank or its affiliated 
bank,________________________________ account # _________________________ (“Good 
Funds Account”) and the Bank is willing to agree with the Lender and the Closing Agent that it will 
fund checks drawn upon the Good Funds Account (“Good Funds Check”) for the funding of Loans 
and the Closing Agent may disburse the funds immediately upon the closing of Loans, upon the 
terms set forth in this Agreement. 
NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is 
hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows: 
1. 
Incorporation of Recitals. The Recitals set forth above are hereby incorporated and made 
a part of this Agreement.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
26 
2. 
Responsibilities of Mortgage Lender. The Mortgage Lender shall, prior to the closing of a 
Loan, prepare and deliver to the Closing Agent all necessary Loan documents including, 
without limitation, a loan settlement statement. Alternatively, if the Closing Agent or any 
third party prepares the Loan documents, the Mortgage Lender shall review and approve 
the Loan documents. 
3. 
Responsibilities of the Closing Agent. The Closing Agent shall be responsible to do the 
following, at or prior to the closing of each Loan: 
(a) 
During the Bank’s normal business hours, on or before the day of disbursement 
of funds, the Closing Agent shall obtain from the Bank or its designee by 
telephone as specified on the signature page, a reservation number which has 
been issued by the Bank for the Good Funds Check (the “Reservation Number”). 
(b) 
The Closing Agent shall verify that the amount of the check delivered to it by the 
Mortgage Lender and drawn on the Bank does not exceed the face amount of 
the Loan less all discount points charged in connection with the Loan, as set forth 
on the settlement statement. 
(c) 
The Closing Agent shall make disbursements in accordance with the settlement 
statement and do all other things and obtain all other documents that it deems 
necessary in order to comply with the Mortgage Lender’s closing instructions that 
are applicable to the Loan and issue a mortgagee’s policy of title insurance in 
favor of the Mortgage Lender, insuring that the Mortgage is a 
____________________ lien on real property improved by a 1-4 family 
residence as described therein. The duties of the Closing Agent hereunder shall 
not include the preparation of legal documents. The Closing Agent shall in each 
case forward the original Mortgage to the proper governmental authority for 
recording. The Note and all other Loan documents shall be delivered to the 
Mortgage Lender within two (2) business days after disbursement of funds, 
unless the Closing Agent is requested and agrees to forward the Loan package 
to the Bank/Warehouse Lender or its designee as specified on the signature 
page. For the purposes of perfecting the Bank’s/Warehouse Lender’s security 
interest therein pursuant to § 4-9-313(c), C.R.S., the Closing Agent shall be the 
bailee of the Bank/Warehouse Lender and agrees to hold possession of the Note 
and all other Loan documents for the benefit of the Bank/Warehouse Lender until 
the Closing Agent delivers the Loan documents to the Mortgage Lender or the 
Bank/Warehouse Lender. 
(d) 
In the event Loan proceeds are not disbursed within two (2) business days after 
issuance of a Reservation Number, the Closing Agent shall so notify the 
Mortgage Lender and return the check to the Mortgage Lender. 
4. 
Bank’s Agreement to Honor Checks. The Bank shall have no obligation under this 
Agreement or otherwise to issue a Reservation Number for any check drawn on the 
Good Funds Account. However, if (1) the Bank does issue a Reservation Number, (2) the 
Bank has given a Reservation Number to the Closing Agent, and (3) the Closing Agent 
closes a Loan and disburses funds, then issuance of the Reservation Number shall 
constitute the warranty by, and unconditional agreement between the Bank and the 
Closing Agent that: 
(a) 
The Bank shall honor and pay the Good Funds Check upon presentment without 
reference to amounts on deposit in any account; 
(b) 
Issuance of the Reservation Number constitutes an acceptance or certification of 
the Good Funds Check by the Bank, pursuant to § 4-3-409, C.R.S.;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
27 
(c) 
The Good Funds Check shall be deemed, with respect to the ability of the Bank 
to stop payment, to be the equivalent of a cashier’s check issued by the Bank; 
(d) 
Funds represented by the Good Funds Check are not subject to offset by the 
Bank; and 
(e) 
The Bank shall not honor any stop-payment order or direction from the Mortgage 
Lender with respect to the Good Funds Check. 
Mortgage Lender agrees to pay, and indemnify Closing Agent for, all losses sustained as 
a result of a dishonor of a Good Funds Check that the Bank is obligated to honor as set 
out in this paragraph 4. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, nothing in 
this Agreement is intended to alter the normal check collection and clearance time 
periods for a Good Funds Check. 
5. 
Insured Closing Letter. For the duration of this Agreement, the Closing Agent shall obtain 
and cause to remain in effect insured closing letters from the Title Insurance Company in 
form and content acceptable to the Bank/Warehouse Lender (the “Insured Closing 
Letters”). The Insured Closing Letters shall be addressed to the Bank/Warehouse Lender 
and to the Mortgage Lender and shall not be cancelable except with ten (10) days prior 
written notice to the Bank/Warehouse Lender and the Mortgage Lender. A copy of the 
Insured Closing Letter shall be delivered by the Mortgage Lender to the Bank/Warehouse 
Lender prior to any request for confirmation pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) hereof. 
6. 
Termination. This Agreement shall apply to all Loans of the Mortgage Lender which are 
now or hereafter closed by the Closing Agent for which a Reservation Number is 
requested and given, prior to termination of this Agreement. This Agreement may be 
terminated by any party hereto, immediately upon the giving of written notice to all other 
parties. The rights and obligations of the parties with respect to all Good Funds Checks 
for which a Reservation Number has been issued by the Bank prior to termination of this 
Agreement shall survive any such termination. 
7. 
Notices. All notices which are required or may be given in connection with this Agreement 
shall be effective upon the earlier of receipt or three (3) days after the same are sent by 
certified mail, return receipt requested, with postage prepaid, to the addresses contained 
on the signature page. 
8. 
Miscellaneous: 
(a) 
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws 
of the State of Colorado. 
(b) 
Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to supersede or modify the rights and 
obligations of the Mortgage Lender and the Bank/Warehouse Lender vis-à-vis 
each other under any loan agreement or other documents that may currently be 
in place with respect to the Bank’s/Warehouse Lender’s credit facility with the 
Mortgage Lender (“Other Agreement or Documents”), and the Bank/Warehouse 
Lender shall be entitled to exercise all rights and remedies granted in any such 
Other Agreements or Documents, as specified therein except that the Bank’s 
agreement to honor a Good Funds Check under paragraph 4 shall not be altered 
or impaired by such Other Agreement or Documents.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
28 
(c) 
This Agreement may not be assigned by the Closing Agent or Mortgage Lender 
without the prior written consent of the Bank and the Warehouse Lender, if any. 
This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors 
and assigns of the Bank and the Warehouse Lender, if any, and upon any 
permitted successors and assigns of the Closing Agent or the Mortgage Lender. 
(d) 
This Agreement may be amended or modified only by a written instrument 
executed by the parties hereto and only as permitted by Division of Insurance 
Regulation 3-5-1. 
(e) 
No right or interest under this Agreement shall be waived except by written 
instrument executed by the party against whom such waiver is sought. Any 
waiver of any particular default or failure to perform hereunder or of any provision 
hereof shall not constitute a waiver of any other default or failure to perform 
hereunder or of the same default arising again in the future. 
(f) 
In the event of any litigation or arbitration hereunder, the prevailing party shall be 
entitled to recover its attorneys fees and costs in addition to the award granted by 
the court or arbitrator. 
(g) 
The rights and remedies of each party under this Agreement shall be cumulative, 
both as to other rights or remedies under this Agreement and as to rights and 
remedies otherwise provided or available under other agreements or at law, by 
statute or in equity. The exercise or partial exercise of any such right or remedy 
shall not preclude the exercise of any other right or remedy 
(h) 
No Closing Agent, Mortgage Lender, or Bank/Warehouse Lender shall be 
required to enter into this Agreement.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
29 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have entered into this Good Funds Agreement as of the date first 
above written. 
 
Bank: 
Closing Agent: 
By 
By 
Name: 
Name: 
Title: 
Title: 
Address: 
Address: 
Telephone No.: 
Telephone No.: 
FAX No.: 
FAX No.: 
E-mail: 
E-mail: 
Attention: 
Attention: 
WAREHOUSE LENDER:_______________ MORTGAGE LENDER:_________________ 
Bank: 
Closing Agent: 
By 
By 
Name: 
Name: 
Title: 
Title: 
Address: 
Address: 
Telephone No.: 
Telephone No.: 
FAX No.: 
FAX No.: 
E-mail: 
E-mail: 
Attention: 
Attention: 
 
FOR RESERVATION NUMBERS pursuant to paragraph 3(a) contact: 
Name:      _____________________________________________________________________ 
Address: ______________________________________________________________________ 
Address:   _____________________________________________________________________ 
Telephone No.: _________________________________________________________________ 
E-mail:   _______________________________________________________________________ 
Bank Authorization:     ____________________________________________________________ 
Name & Title 
 
FOR LOAN DOCUMENT DELIVERY pursuant to paragraph 3(c) deliver to: 
Name:      _____________________________________________________________________ 
Address: ______________________________________________________________________ 
Address:   _____________________________________________________________________ 
Telephone No.: _________________________________________________________________ 
E-mail:   _______________________________________________________________________ 
Bank Authorization:     ____________________________________________________________ 
Name & Title

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
30 
Regulation 8-1-3 
TITLE INSURANCE STANDARDS OF CONDUCT 
Section 1 
Authority 
Section 2 
Scope and Purpose 
Section 3 
Applicability 
Section 4 
Definitions 
Section 5 
Rules Regarding Standards of Conduct for Title Insurance Entities 
Section 6 
Severability 
Section 7 
Enforcement 
Section 8 
Effective Date 
Section 9 
History 
Appendix A 
Title Closing Protection Letters 
Section 1 
Authority 
This regulation is promulgated and adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance under the authority of §§ 
10-1-108(7), 10-1-109, 10-2-104, 10-3-1110, 10-11-116, 10-11-119, and 10-11-124(2) C.R.S. 
Section 2 
Scope and Purpose 
The purpose of this regulation is to ensure that consumers receive the benefits of competition in the area 
of title insurance and to ensure consumer protection. The regulation also proscribes unlawful 
inducements, deceptive trade practices, and discriminatory acts, all of which are detrimental to the 
consumer and, in the aggregate, may threaten the solvency of title insurance companies and title 
insurance agents. 
Section 3 
Applicability 
This regulation governs title entities and does not extend the regulatory authority of the Colorado Division 
of Insurance (“Division”) to any person other than title entities or persons transacting the business of title 
insurance. This regulation does not create any type of safe harbor from the enforcement of any federal 
statutes and regulations applicable to title entities. 
Section 4 
Definitions 
A. 
“Affiliate” means a person who directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries: 
1. 
controls a title entity; 
2. 
is controlled by a title entity; or 
3. 
is under common control with a title entity. 
B. 
“Affiliated business arrangements” shall have the same meaning as set forth in § 10-11-102(1), 
C.R.S. Affiliated business arrangements are distinct from controlled business arrangements, 
which are defined by § 10-2-401(4), C.R.S. 
C. 
“Application for title insurance” shall mean receipt by a licensed title entity of an order for a title 
insurance commitment or other title insurance product that contains information about all parties 
and details concerning a title insurance transaction. 
D. 
“Business of title insurance” shall have the same meaning as set forth in § 10-11-102(3), C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
31 
E. 
“Commitment” or “title commitment” shall mean a report furnished in connection with an 
application for title insurance, which is a statement of the requirements, terms, and conditions 
upon which the title insurance company is willing to insure an interest in a subject property. 
F. 
“Core title services” shall have the same meaning as set forth in the United States Department of 
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) RESPA Statement of Policy 1996-4. 
G. 
“Division” means the Colorado Division of Insurance. 
H. 
“Fair Market Value” means, for the purpose of this regulation, a price that represents the value of 
a product or service being provided, which must include cost and profit. 
I. 
“Fee” means, for purposes of this regulation only, the price other than the Rates (see 
subparagraph L below) assessed to a consumer by a title entity in rendering services pursuant to 
the business of title insurance as defined in § 10-11-102, C.R.S. 
J. 
“Ownership and encumbrance report” (“O&E”) means information identifying the last recorded 
owner, legal description and recorded unreleased deeds of trust, or mortgages of a particular 
parcel of real property available from public records. 
K. 
“Person” has the same meaning as that in § 10-2-103(8), C.R.S. 
L. 
“Rate”, for purposes of this regulation, means expenses as defined in § 10-4-402(1.5), C.R.S., 
together with the pure premium rate as defined in § 10 4 402(2.4), C.R.S., and includes 
production expenses and commissions, in accordance with § 10-4-403, C.R.S. 
M. 
“Remuneration” means, for the purposes of this regulation, any type of payment or compensation. 
N. 
“Services actually rendered” for the purposes of this regulation includes, but is not limited to, a 
reasonable examination of title, including instruments of record, and a determination of 
insurability of such title in accordance with sound underwriting practices. “Services actually 
rendered” does not include the mere referral of title insurance business. 
O. 
“Settlement producer” shall have the same meaning as set forth in § 10-11-102(6.5), C.R.S., and 
does not include insurance producers as defined in § 10-2-103(6), C.R.S. 
P. 
“Settlement services” shall have the same meaning as in § 10-11-102(6.7), C.R.S. 
Q. 
“TBD commitment” shall mean a report, in the form of a commitment, furnished prior to receipt of 
an application for title insurance, in which the buyer, sales amount, and loan amount, among 
other possible details, are not yet known. 
R. 
“Title insurance agency” means, for the purpose of this regulation, a corporation, partnership, 
association, or foreign or domestic entity as defined in § 7-90-102, C.R.S., or other legal entity 
that transacts the business of insurance. 
S. 
“Title insurance agent” shall have the same meaning as in § 10-11-102(9), C.R.S. 
T. 
“Title insurance company” shall have the same meaning as in § 10-11-102(10), C.R.S. 
U. 
“Title entity” shall mean title insurance agents, title insurance agencies and title insurance 
companies, unless otherwise stated in the regulation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
32 
V. 
“Trip”, means, for the purposes of this regulation, a journey or getaway that includes any one or 
more of the following: 
1. 
Air travel; 
2. 
Travel outside the state of Colorado; 
3. 
Any overnight lodging or accommodation. 
Section 5 
Rules Regarding Standards of Conduct for Title Insurance Entities 
A. 
A title entity shall not give remuneration to any person, either directly or indirectly, pursuant to any 
agreement or understanding, oral or otherwise, for the referral of the business of title insurance, 
other than remuneration that is a part of a compliant and authorized affiliated business agreement 
or for services actually rendered. 
B. 
An agreement or understanding for the referral of the business of title insurance need not be 
written or verbalized but may be established by a practice, pattern, or course of conduct. When 
any type of remuneration is given repeatedly and is connected in any way with the volume or 
value of the business referred, the giving of the remuneration is evidence that it is made pursuant 
to an agreement or understanding for the referral of the business of title insurance. 
C. 
The following activities are permissible standards of conduct: 
1. 
Providing discounts that are properly filed and justified in the title entity’s rate or fee filing. 
2. 
Furnishing a TBD commitment for a charge that bears a reasonable relation to the cost of 
production of the TBD commitment or crediting a charge paid for a TBD commitment to 
the final premiums or fees paid upon the consummation of the transaction contemplated 
by such TBD commitment, when such charge has been properly filed and justified. 
3. 
Paying, furnishing, or providing a proportional share of the actual cost for a thing of value 
being provided. The title entity must comply with Section 5.C.12. if the title entity is 
providing promotional materials and Section 5.C.13. if the title entity is providing office 
space or accommodation. 
4. 
Crediting a charge paid for an ownership and encumbrance report to the final premiums 
or fees paid upon the consummation of the transaction contemplated by such ownership 
and encumbrance report. 
5. 
Accumulating, crediting or deferring the charge for a title policy or a closing or settlement 
service, to the extent that a properly filed and justified rate or fee is in place for the 
accumulated, credited, or deferred charge. 
6. 
Paying for or furnishing a business form to a settlement producer which is a form 
regularly used in the conduct of the title entity's business and which form is furnished 
solely for the convenience of the title entity and does not constitute a monetary benefit to 
a settlement producer. 
7. 
Advancing or paying into escrow, or offering to advance or pay into escrow, title entity 
funds as provided in Division Regulation 8-1-2 Section 5.J.1.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
33 
8. 
Providing a single copy of the last recorded vesting deed for a parcel of real property to a 
settlement producer without charge if: 
a. 
The document is provided as presented by the public records and nothing of 
material value is added to the information contained in it; and 
b. 
The document provided contains no advertising or promotional material on behalf 
of the settlement producer. 
Nothing in this regulation prohibits title entities from imposing a reasonable fee for any of 
the above information, or for additional information, provided the fee is the same for all 
persons and assessed on a non-discriminatory basis. 
9. 
Providing to a settlement producer a copy of an instrument of public record in connection 
with the issuance of a commitment or TBD commitment, including but not limited to a 
deed, deed of trust, mortgage, judgment, lien, contract, map, plat, declaration of 
covenants, conditions, and restrictions, or any other document purporting to affect a 
parcel of real property without charge if: 
a. 
The document is provided in concert with the issuance of a commitment for title 
insurance; 
b. 
The document is provided as presented by the public records and nothing of 
material value is added to the information contained in it; and 
c. 
The document provided contains no advertising or promotional material on behalf 
of the settlement producer. 
Nothing in this regulation prohibits title entities from imposing a reasonable fee for any of 
the above information, or for additional information, provided the fee is the same for all 
persons and assessed on a non-discriminatory basis. 
10. 
Providing a quote for title insurance premiums and settlement service fees for a specific 
real estate transaction. Such a quote need not comply with the reasonable search and 
examination standards required by § 10-11-106, C.R.S., or Regulation 8-1-2, provided 
said quote is not binding in the event a reasonable search and examination of the 
property records reveals a circumstance in which the quoted rate or fee must be 
amended. 
11. 
Issuing a closing protection letter that satisfies the following standards: 
a. 
Any closing protection letter issued substantially conforms to an American Land 
Title Association (“ALTA”) promulgated form, which may include amending such 
form to be applicable to a seller; 
b. 
All fees that are charged for a closing protection letter are not in any way 
included in the rate charged for the title insurance product; 
c. 
All fees that are charged for the closing protection letter are disclosed to the 
consumer paying the fee; 
d. 
All fees that are charged for a closing protection letter have been properly filed 
and justified in accordance with Regulation 8-1-1 by the title insurance company 
providing title insurance for the subject transaction;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
34 
e. 
All fees that are charged for a closing protection letter are remitted to the title 
insurance company providing title insurance for the subject transaction; and 
f. 
The title insurance company includes a notice to the consumer on the 
commitment disclosure statement of the availability of the issuance of a closing 
protection letter. 
12. 
Normal promotional and educational activities that: 
a. 
Are not conditioned on the referral of the business of title insurance; 
b. 
Do not involve the defraying of expenses that otherwise would be incurred by 
persons in a position to refer settlement services or business incident thereto; 
c. 
Comply with paragraphs 5.C.15 through 19.; and 
d. 
Do not violate paragraph 5.D.20. of this regulation. 
13. 
Utilizing office space or other accommodations within a settlement producer’s office or 
business space, provided that rent is paid in accordance with Section 5.C.3., if: 
a. 
Written notice has been provided to the consumer disclosing that an office or 
accommodations sharing arrangement exists and that the consumer has the right 
to shop for and use another title entity and/or settlement producer; 
b. 
The title entity’s space is clearly and conspicuously identified separately from the 
settlement producer’s space; 
c. 
The title entity’s space can be readily locked and secured independently from the 
settlement producer’s space; 
d. 
The title entity’s space is directly and easily accessible to the public without 
entering the settlement producer’s primary workspace, such as where the title 
entity’s entrance leads to or from a common area or the exterior of the premises; 
and 
e. 
The title entity does not directly or indirectly pay for or subsidize the settlement 
producer’s expenses as proscribed by § 10-11-108, C.R.S. 
14. 
Charitable donations that meet the following requirements: 
a. 
The donation must be made directly to the charitable organization; and 
b. 
The donation must not be made on behalf of a settlement producer. 
15. 
Expenditures for business meals as a method to promote a title entities business, only 
when at least one title insurance producer attends the business meal for every four 
settlement producers that attend the business meal. 
16. 
A title entity may provide or sponsor educational courses under the following conditions: 
a. 
The topic of the education course is title insurance, escrow, closing and 
settlement services, other courses related to such topics, or real estate and 
mortgage classes;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
35 
b. 
The education course be at least one hour in duration; and 
c. 
If the topic of the education course is residential real estate or mortgage classes, 
escrow, closing and settlement services, the title entity conducting or sponsoring 
the course must provide Appendix A of this regulation, titled “Title Insurance 
Closing Protection Letters (CPLs),” to all individuals taking the course. 
17. 
Attending or participating in local sporting events as a method to promote any title 
entities’ business, only when at least one title insurance producer attends, or participates 
in, the sporting event for every four settlement producers that attend, or participate in, the 
sporting event. 
18. 
A title entity may attend and participate in trade association activities and events under 
the following conditions: 
a. 
Any marketing and promotional items and gifts promoting a title entity must be 
available to the public; 
b. 
Any advertising purchased by the title entity in a trade association publication is 
purchased at fair market value; and 
c. 
The title entities attendance or participation in the trade association activities and 
events must not violate paragraph 5.D.20. of this regulation. 
19. 
Expenditures for coffee, donuts, bagels, or other similar refreshments, for a settlement 
producer, as a method to promote the title entities’ business, only when at least one title 
insurance producer is present to promote the title entities’ business. 
D. 
The following is a partial, but not all-inclusive, list of acts and practices which the Division 
considers per se unlawful inducements proscribed by § 10-11-108, C.R.S.: 
1. 
Except as otherwise permitted in Regulation 8-1-2 Section 5.J.1., the disbursement of 
closing and settlement services funds before all necessary conditions of the transaction 
have been met. 
2. 
Furnishing a title commitment without charge or at a reduced charge, in the absence of a 
bona fide sale, purchase or loan transaction. The charge for a commitment must have a 
reasonable relation to the cost of production of the commitment. 
3 
Furnishing a TBD commitment without a charge that bears a reasonable relation to the 
cost of production of the TBD commitment. Any such charge must be properly filed and 
justified in accordance with Regulation 8-1-1. While such charge for the production of a 
TBD commitment must be made at the time the TBD commitment is provided, nothing in 
this provision shall prohibit a company from crediting a charge paid for a TBD 
commitment to the final premiums or fees paid upon the consummation of the transaction 
contemplated by such TBD commitment. 
4. 
Paying for, furnishing, providing, subsidizing, waiving or offering to pay, furnish, provide, 
subsidize or waive, to or for any settlement producer or associate, all or any portion of the 
following: 
a. 
The cancellation fee for a title commitment or other fee before or after a 
settlement producer cancels an order with another title entity; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
36 
b. 
Salary, compensation or services, except for services actually rendered, 
including but not limited to: 
(1) 
All or any part of the time or productive effort of any employee or affiliate 
of the title entity (e.g., office manager, escrow officer, secretary, clerk, 
messenger) to any settlement producer at less than the fair market value 
of the services; 
(2) 
Compensation of a settlement producer or associate of a settlement 
producer; 
(3) 
The salary or any part of the salary of a relative of any settlement 
producer which payment is in excess of the reasonable value of the work 
actually performed by such relative on behalf of the title entity; and 
(4) 
Services by any settlement producer, which services are required to be 
performed by such settlement producer in his or her professional 
capacity, and for which the settlement producer would not normally 
charge the title entity. 
5. 
Except for services actually rendered, paying a settlement producer or associate to make 
an inspection or appraisal of property. 
6. 
Any transaction in which any person receives, or is to receive, securities of the title entity 
or its affiliates at prices below the normal market price, or bonds or debentures which 
guarantee a higher than normal interest rate, when such transaction is directly or 
indirectly related to the number of closing and settlement services or title orders coming 
to the title entity through the efforts of such person. 
7. 
Charging less than the scheduled rate or fee for a specified title or closing and settlement 
service, or for a policy of title insurance. 
8. 
Waiving, or offering to waive, all or any part of the title entity's established rate or fee for 
services which are not the subject of rates or fees filed with the Commissioner or are 
required to be maintained on the entity's schedules of rates and fees. 
9. 
Furnishing information, including but not limited to, farm packages and ownership and 
encumbrance reports, or similar packages containing information about one or more 
parcels of real property, without both making a charge that is commensurate with the fair 
market value of the work performed and the material furnished, and making a good faith 
effort to collect payment in the amount of such charge. While such charge for the 
production of an ownership and encumbrance report must be made at the time the report 
is provided, nothing in this provision prohibits a company from crediting a charge paid for 
an ownership and encumbrance report to the final premiums or fees paid upon the 
consummation of the transaction contemplated by such ownership and encumbrance 
report. 
10. 
Subsidizing the production of ownership and encumbrance reports, farm packages, 
information kits, or similar packages containing information about one or more parcels of 
real property, whether through sponsorship, advertising, or any other direct or indirect 
method of payment to a company or organization that is able to produce such materials 
but is not subject to the rules and regulations of the division.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
37 
11. 
Designing, producing, printing, distributing or causing to be designed, produced, printed, 
or distributed, on behalf of any settlement producer, postcards, flyers, home information 
books, business cards, or any other product used to market to prospective clients without 
both making a charge that is commensurate with the fair market value of the work 
performed and the material furnished, and making a good faith effort to collect payment in 
the amount of such charge. 
12. 
Accumulating, crediting or deferring the charge for a title policy or closing and settlement 
services in order to qualify the charge for said policy and a later transaction for a lower 
rate or fee, except to the extent that a properly filed and justified rate or fee is in place for 
a deferred rate. 
13. 
Making or guaranteeing or offering to make or guarantee, directly or indirectly, any loan 
to any settlement producer, regardless of the terms of the note or guarantee. 
14. 
Guaranteeing, or offering to guarantee, the performance or services of any settlement 
producer. 
15. 
Providing, or offering to provide, either directly or indirectly, a “compensating balance” or 
deposit in a lending institution either for the express or implied purpose of influencing the 
extension of credit by such lending institution to any settlement producer, or for the 
express or implied purpose of influencing the placement or channeling of title insurance 
business by such lending institution. 
16. 
Paying for, or offering to pay for, the fees or charges of an outside professional (e.g., an 
attorney, engineer, appraiser, or surveyor) whose services are required by any settlement 
producer or consumer to structure or complete a particular transaction. 
17. 
In addition to those services in Section 5.D.11., providing, or offering to provide, non-title 
insurance services (e.g. computerized bookkeeping, forms management, computer 
programming, REO or foreclosure services, or any similar non-title insurance benefit) to 
any settlement producer at less than the fair market value of the services. 
18. 
Advancing or paying into escrow, or offering to advance or pay into escrow, any of the 
title entity funds or “closing short”, except as provided in Regulation 8-1-2. 
19. 
Charging less than the actual cost of the closing and settlement service of the title entity. 
20. 
Contributing fees, prizes, gifts, or other things of value to a settlement producer including, 
but not limited to: 
a. 
Co-sponsoring, subsidizing, or paying for meetings, except for meetings on the 
title company’s premises and educational courses as allowed by section 5.C.16. 
of this regulation; 
b. 
Co-sponsoring, subsidizing, or paying for any type of incentive, retreat, 
transportation, or vacation; 
c. 
Co-sponsoring, subsidizing, or paying for the attendance of a settlement 
producer at a trade association event or meeting; 
d. 
Co-sponsoring, subsidizing, or paying for open house celebrations, or open 
houses at homes or properties for sale;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
38 
e. 
Co-sponsoring, subsidizing, or paying for settlement producers’ recreational 
activities including, but not limited to: 
(1) 
All types of trips; and 
(2) 
All types of parties including cocktail parties, barbeques and holiday 
parties; 
f. 
Co-sponsoring, subsidizing, paying, or contributing fees, prizes, gifts or other 
things of value to or for a settlement producer in a manner designed to evade the 
provisions of this paragraph 5.D.20. 
21. 
A marketing arrangement commonly referred to as Marketing Services Agreement 
(MSA), between a title entity and settlement producer. 
E. 
Affiliated Business Arrangements: 
1. 
Section 10-11-124 (1)(a), C.R.S. permits an affiliated business arrangement where the 
person referring the business to the affiliated business arrangement receives payment 
only in the form of a return on an investment and where it does not violate the provisions 
of § 10-11-108 (1), C.R.S. Affiliated business arrangements which are tied to the referral 
of title insurance business are a per se unlawful inducement proscribed by § 10-11-
108(1), C.R.S., and constitute a violation of § 10-11-124 (1) (a), C.R.S. The Division will 
make determinations as to compliance with these sections on a case-by-case basis. 
Prohibited arrangements include, but are not limited to the following: 
a. 
Arrangements in which the amount of the return on the ownership interest is 
directly or indirectly conditioned on the number of or premium volume of referrals 
made, such as where owners or stockholders receive dividends or bonuses 
based on the number of referrals generated or achievement of certain referral 
plans or goals; 
b. 
Arrangements in which the ownership interests themselves are conditioned on 
the referrals, such as where the stock certificates are distributed based on the 
number of or premium volume of the referrals made in the past or to be made in 
the future; 
c. 
Arrangements in which owners or stockholders receive anything of value that is 
directly tied to the referral of business; 
d. 
Arrangements in which employees, agents, or associates of the owners or 
stockholders receive incentives, inducements, or other things of value directly 
tied to the referral of business; 
e. 
Arrangements in which the cost of the ownership opportunity is not equivalent for 
all investors; 
f. 
Arrangements in which no formal business plan is developed and/or the 
formation of such arrangement is designed to obscure kickbacks in the form of 
dividends or other considerations and not for a bona fide business reason.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
39 
2. 
“Sham” affiliated business arrangements are prohibited. 
a. 
In considering whether or not a title entity is a legitimate affiliated business 
arrangement or a “sham” affiliated business arrangement the factors the Division 
will consider include but are not limited to the following: 
(1) 
Whether the title entity is structured and operated in a manner that 
evidences a good faith effort to conform to applicable title insurance 
laws. 
(2) 
Whether the title entity maintains a separate and distinct, verifiable 
physical location. In the event the title entity shares office space with a 
settlement producer, the Division shall consider the factors set forth in 
Paragraph C.13.a. through e. of this Section, inclusive, in determining 
compliance with this provision. In the event the title entity shares office 
space with another title entity the Division shall consider the following 
factors: 
(a) 
Whether the title entity's space is clearly and conspicuously 
identified separately from another title entity's space; 
(b) 
Whether the title entity's space can be readily locked and 
secured independently from another title entity's space; and 
(c) 
Whether the title entity's space is directly and easily accessible 
to the public without entering another title entity's primary 
workspace, such as where the title entity's entrance leads to or 
from a common area or the exterior of the premises. 
(3) 
Whether the title entity was established with at least the minimum 
capitalization required pursuant to § 10-11-116 (2), C.R.S. and maintains 
such minimum capitalization at all times. 
(4) 
Whether the title entity shares employees with another title entity, 
settlement producer or other affiliated entity. In determining whether or 
not an individual is an employee of the title entity, the Division may 
consider the following factors: 
(a) 
Whether the title entity issues, or causes to be issued, an annual 
Internal Revenue Service Form W-2 to the employee; 
(b) 
Whether the employee is subject to the title entity's supervision 
and control; 
(c) 
Whether the employee devotes fixed periods of time exclusively 
to the business of the title entity or whether the employee is 
compensated on a fluctuating per-hour basis or per-transaction 
basis; 
(d) 
Whether the employee is physically located in the office of the 
title entity.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
40 
(5) 
Whether the title entity performs core title services, by and through its 
employee(s). In accordance with the HUD Statement of Policy 1996-4 
the title entity shall not collect premiums for services not actually 
performed. 
(6) 
What, if any, title or settlement services the title entity has contracted to 
other sources. 
In addition to the above factors the Division will consider the guidelines set forth in the 
HUD Statement of Policy 1996-2, Sham Controlled Business Arrangements (commonly 
referred to as the “HUD 10-Step Sham Test”), which Statement is incorporated herein by 
reference. The Division may also consider any other relevant facts and circumstances 
relating to the above factors and to those elements set forth in the 10-Step Sham Test. 
3. 
An affiliated business arrangement shall comply with the disclosure requirements set 
forth in § 10-11-124 (1) (b), C.R.S. Such disclosure shall be in accordance with the “Real 
Estate Settlement Procedures Act”, 12 U.S.C. sec 2601, et seq. The title entity shall 
maintain documentation of such disclosure in its title and/or escrow file for no less than a 
period of seven (7) years. 
Section 6 
Severability 
If any provision of this regulation or the application of it to any person or circumstance is for any reason 
held to be invalid, the remainder of this regulation shall not be affected. 
Section 7 
Enforcement 
Noncompliance with this regulation may result in the imposition of any of the sanctions made available in 
the Colorado statutes pertaining to the business of insurance, or other laws, which include the imposition 
of civil penalties, issuance of cease and desist orders, and/or suspensions or revocation of license, 
subject to the requirements of due process. 
Section 8 
Effective Date 
With the exception of Section 5.C.11., this regulation shall become effective on August 15, 2016. Section 
5.C.11. shall become effective on January 1, 2017. 
Section 9 
History 
New regulation effective August 15, 2016.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
41 
Appendix A 
TITLE INSURANCE CLOSING PROTECTION LETTERS (CPLs) 
The purpose of this appendix is to provide information regarding the issuance and protections of Closing 
Protection Letters (“CPLs”). 
Colorado Insurance Regulation 8-1-3 states, in part, that title insurance companies may issue CPLs and, 
in addition, that title entities may conduct or sponsor certain types of educational courses, if the standards 
of Regulation 8-1-3 are met. In the event a title entity is sponsoring or conducting a course related to real 
estate or mortgage issues, the title entity must provide this appendix to the individuals taking the course. 
CPLs contractually obligate a title insurer to indemnify certain parties to a real estate transaction for 
certain improper actions related to the business of title insurance. CPLs can be issued to lenders, buyers 
and sellers. Key protections may include: 
• 
Loss due to fraud, theft, dishonesty, misappropriation of funds, or the mishandling of documents, 
and 
• 
Loss due to failure to comply with the closing instructions of the lender as provided for by the 
terms of the CPL. 
For more information regarding CPLs, please contact your local title agent or title insurance company.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
42 
Regulation 8-1-4 
TITLE INSURANCE – FIDUCIARY DUTIES 
Section 1 
Authority 
Section 2 
Scope and Purpose 
Section 3 
Applicability 
Section 4 
Definitions 
Section 5 
Rules Regarding Fiduciary Duties 
Section 6 
Reporting Requirements for the Prevention of Defalcations 
Section 7 
Safe Harbor 
Section 8 
Severability 
Section 9 
Enforcement 
Section 10 
Effective Date 
Section 11 
History 
Section 1 
Authority 
This regulation is promulgated, and adopted by the Commissioner, pursuant to the authority of §§ 10-1-
108(7), 10-1-109, 10-2-104, 10-2-704, 10-2-801, 10-3-131, 10-3-1110, and 10-11-127(2),C.R.S. 
Section 2 
Scope and Purpose 
The purposes of this regulation are to set forth the fiduciary duties of title entities and to create reporting 
requirements to assist the Division of Insurance (Division) with identifying and mitigating certain risk 
factors which may have an immediate and direct impact on the solvency of title insurance entities. 
Numerous defalcations have occurred in Colorado resulting in losses to Colorado consumers and 
insurers. As a result, the Commissioner finds that the provisions of this regulation are necessary in order 
to protect the title insurance industry, its policyholders and members of the general public that may not 
directly be title insurance policyholders. 
Section 3 
Applicability 
This regulation governs title entities and any other persons transacting the business of title insurance. 
Section 4 
Definitions 
A. 
"Affiliate” means a person who directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries: 
1. 
controls a title entity; 
2. 
is controlled by a title entity; or 
3. 
is under common control with a title entity. 
B. 
“Closing and settlement services” shall have the same meaning as § 10-11-102(3.5), C.R.S. 
C. 
“Person” has the same meaning as that in § 10-2-103(8), C.R.S. 
D. 
“Reconcile” means, for the purpose of this regulation, the accounting process of comparing 
transactions and activity in order to balance accounts and resolve any discrepancies in an 
amount that exceeds five hundred dollars ($500.00). 
E. 
“Sweep account” means, for the purposes of this regulation, a banking arrangement in which a 
bank account balance is automatically transferred to and from another account.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
43 
F. 
“Title insurance agency” shall mean a corporation, partnership, association, or foreign or 
domestic entity as defined in § 7-90-102, C.R.S., or other legal entity that transacts the business 
of title insurance. 
G. 
“Title insurance agent” shall have the same meaning as in § 10-11-102(9), C.R.S. 
H. 
"Title insurance company” shall have the same meaning as in § 10-11-102(10), C.R.S. 
I. 
"Title entity" shall mean title insurance agents, title insurance agencies and title insurance 
companies, unless otherwise stated in the regulation. 
Section 5 
Rules Regarding Fiduciary Duties 
A. 
All title entities, their authorized agents, and affiliates in possession of funds received and 
belonging to others shall maintain the funds in a fiduciary capacity in a separate fiduciary fund 
account or accounts supported by books and records sufficient to identify such funds. Any such 
fiduciary fund account shall be identified as “fiduciary fund account”, “trust account” or “escrow 
account”, or identified similarly. 
B. 
Funds that must be maintained as fiduciary funds include, but are not limited to, underwriter 
portions of title insurance premiums, earnest money deposits, loan proceeds, seller proceeds, 
homeowner association dues, and any other funds received as part of a title entity conducting 
closing and settlement services. 
C. 
All fiduciary funds shall be maintained in an account separate from other monies and assets of 
the title entity. Commingling of other monies and assets of the title entity with fiduciary funds is 
prohibited. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prohibit the advancement of funds 
authorized pursuant to § 38-35-125(2), C.R.S. 
D. 
All fiduciary funds shall be deposited within three business days of receipt with a state or federal 
bank, or a savings and loan association whose depositors are insured by an instrumentality of the 
United States Government, unless otherwise directed in writing by all necessary parties to the 
transaction. 
E. 
Except as otherwise consented to in writing by the parties to a transaction establishing the need 
for fiduciary funds, a title entity or its authorized agent shall not use such fiduciary funds for any 
purpose other than the purpose or purposes set forth in the written agreement for which the 
fiduciary funds were deposited with the title entity. 
F. 
Unless otherwise consented to in writing by all necessary parties, fiduciary funds, other than 
earnest money, held by a title entity shall either be disbursed for the purpose that the funds were 
collected or returned to the party that deposited the funds with the title entity within 120 days of 
the closing of the transaction. 
G. 
Unless prior written authorization has been received by all necessary parties, fiduciary funds shall 
not be deposited by a title entity into a treasury management account or any other type of 
investment account. 
H. 
Fiduciary funds may only be deposited into a sweep account by a title entity if the funds are 
segregated and held in a fiduciary capacity in the account the funds are swept into.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
44 
I. 
A title entity shall not earn interest on fiduciary funds unless disclosure is made to any parties to a 
transaction, for who said funds are being held, that interest is or has been earned. Said 
disclosure must offer the opportunity to receive payment of any interest earned on such funds 
beyond any administrative fees as may be on file with the Division. Said disclosure must be clear 
and conspicuous, and may be made at any time up to and including closing. 
J. 
Until a title entity receives written instructions pertaining to the holding of fiduciary funds, in a form 
agreeable to the title entity, it shall comply with the following: 
1. 
The title entity shall deposit funds into an escrow, trust, or other fiduciary account and 
hold them in a fiduciary capacity. 
2. 
The title entity shall use any funds designated as “earnest money” for the consummation 
of the transaction as evidenced by the contract to buy and sell real estate applicable to 
said transaction. Except, if the transaction does not close, the title entity shall: 
a. 
Release the earnest money funds as directed by written instructions signed by 
both the buyer and seller; or 
b. 
If acceptable written instructions are not received, uncontested funds shall be 
held by the title entity for 120 days from the scheduled date of closing, after 
which the title entity shall return said funds to the depositing party. 
3. 
Nothing herein shall be read as relieving the responsibilities, if any, of any title entity in 
complying with the Colorado unclaimed property act, § 38-13-101, et seq., C.R.S. 
4. 
Every title insurance agent or title insurance agency shall reconcile all fiduciary accounts, 
or similarly identified accounts, at least every forty-five (45) days. 
K. 
In the event of any controversy regarding the funds held by the title entity (not withstanding any 
termination of the contract), the title entity shall not be required to take any action unless and until 
such controversy is resolved. At its option and discretion, the title entity may: 
1. 
Await any proceeding; or 
2. 
Deliver written notice to the buyer and seller that unless the title entity receives a copy of 
a summons and complaint or claim (between buyer and seller), containing the case 
number of the lawsuit or lawsuits, within 120 days of the title entity’s written notice 
delivered to the parties, title entity shall return the funds to the depositing party. 
Section 6 
Reporting Requirements for the Prevention of Defalcations 
A. 
A title insurance company shall notify the Division within thirty (30) days if: 
1. 
At any point a title insurance company becomes aware that a title insurance agent or title 
insurance agency fails to remit premium to the insurer, on the later of, forty-five (45) days 
after the contractual due date, or if there is no contractual due date, ninety (90) days after 
receipt; 
2. 
At any point a title insurance company becomes aware that a title insurance agent or title 
insurance agency fails to reconcile the title insurance agent’s or title insurance agency’s 
fiduciary bank accounts, or similarly identified accounts, at least every forty-five (45) 
days;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
45 
3. 
At any point a title insurance company becomes aware that a title insurance agent or title 
insurance agency has an account shortage or file shortage of more than $10,000 in a title 
insurance agent’s or title insurance agency’s fiduciary account; 
4. 
The title insurance company enters into any repayment agreement with a title insurance 
agent or a title insurance agency; or 
5. 
The title insurance company becomes aware of any commingling of other monies or 
assets with fiduciary funds held by the title insurance agent or title insurance agency. 
B 
A title insurance company shall provide the Division with a comprehensive list of all title insurance 
agencies that are authorized in the state of Colorado to issue title insurance products of the title 
insurance company. 
C. 
A title insurance company shall notify the Division in writing within thirty (30) days if the title 
insurance company: 
1. 
Authorizes a new title insurance agent or title insurance agency to issue its title insurance 
products; 
2. 
Suspends the authority of a title insurance agent or title insurance agency to issue its title 
insurance products; or 
3. 
Cancels the authority of a title insurance agent or title insurance agency to issue its title 
insurance products. 
Section 7 
Safe Harbor 
If a title insurance company properly complies with the requirements of Section 6 of this regulation, the 
Division shall not take any regulatory action against the title insurance company for a shortage in a title 
insurance agent’s or title insurance agency’s fiduciary account, with the exception of any necessary 
regulatory actions to order that restitution be paid by the title insurance company. 
Section 8 
Severability 
If any provision of this regulation or the application of it to any person or circumstance is for any reason 
held to be invalid, the remainder of this regulation shall not be affected. 
Section 9 
Enforcement 
Noncompliance with this regulation may result in the imposition of any of the sanctions made available in 
the Colorado statutes pertaining to the business of insurance, or other laws, which include the imposition 
of civil penalties, issuance of cease and desist orders, and/or suspensions or revocation of license, 
subject to the requirements of due process. 
Section 10 
Effective Date 
This regulation is effective July 15, 2018. 
Section 11 
History 
Regulation promulgated on March 15, 2017. 
Amended regulation effective July 15, 2018.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
46 
Regulation 8-1-5 
TITLE INSURANCE AGENT LICENSING 
Section 1 
Authority 
Section 2 
Scope and Purpose 
Section 3 
Applicability 
Section 4 
Definitions 
Section 5 
Rules Regarding Agent Licensing 
Section 6 
Severability 
Section 7 
Enforcement 
Section 8 
Effective Date 
Section 9 
History 
Section 1 
Authority 
This regulation is promulgated and adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance under the authority of §§ 
10-1-108(7), 10-1-109, 10-2-104, 10-2-406, 10-11-116, and 10-11-119, C.R.S. 
Section 2 
Scope and Purpose 
The purpose of this regulation is to set forth the title insurance agent licensing requirements. 
Section 3 
Applicability 
This regulation governs title entities and does not extend the regulatory authority of the Colorado Division 
of Insurance (“Division”) to any person other than title entities or persons transacting the business of title 
insurance. 
Section 4 
Definitions 
A. 
“Affiliated business arrangements” shall have the same meaning as found at § 10-11-102 (1), 
C.R.S. Affiliated business arrangements are distinct from controlled business arrangements, 
which are defined by § 10-2-401(4), C.R.S. 
B. 
“Title insurance agent” shall have the same meaning as found at § 10-11-102(9), C.R.S. 
Section 5 
Rules Regarding Agent Licensing 
A. 
To demonstrate compliance with § 10-11-116(2), C.R.S., the title agent or agency seeking 
licensure shall submit a notarized letter from an certified public accountant verifying that upon a 
limited review of the title entity’s books and records performed for this purpose, the accountant 
reasonably believes the title agent or agency has a net worth at least equal to the minimum 
amount set forth in § 10-11-116(2), C.R.S., or the title agent or agency possesses actual paid-in 
cash capital of at least the amount set forth in § 10-11-116 (2), C.R.S. 
B. 
Every title agent and agency shall disclose every affiliated business arrangement in a form 
acceptable to the Commissioner. Such disclosure shall be completed with every new or renewal 
license application and within thirty (30) days of any changes of the disclosed information. 
Section 6 
Severability 
If any provision of this regulation or the application of it to any person or circumstance is for any reason 
held to be invalid, the remainder of this regulation shall not be affected.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-8 
Division of Insurance 
 
47 
Section 7 
Enforcement 
Noncompliance with this regulation may result in the imposition of any of the sanctions made available in 
the Colorado statutes pertaining to the business of insurance, or other laws, which include the imposition 
of civil penalties, issuance of cease and desist orders, and/or suspensions or revocation of license, 
subject to the requirements of due process. 
Section 8 
Effective Date 
This regulation is effective March 15, 2017. 
Section 9 
History 
New regulation effective March 15, 2017. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 10/01/2015. 
Regulation 8-1-3 eff. 08/15/2016. 
Regulations 8-1-4, 8-1-5 eff. 03/15/2017. 
Regulation 8-1-4 eff. 07/15/2018. 
Regulation 8-1-1 eff. 08/15/2019. 
Regulation 8-1-2 eff. 09/14/2022.
