---
id: "3_CCR_702-10"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "3 CCR 702-10"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12182&fileName=3%20CCR%20702-10&type=pdf"
---

#### 3_CCR_702-10. 3 CCR 702-10

1 
DEPARTMENT OF REGULATORY AGENCIES 
Division of Insurance 
UNFAIR DISCRIMINATION 
3 CCR 702-10 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Regulation 10-1-1 
GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK REQUIREMENTS 
FOR LIFE INSURERS’, PRIVATE PASSENGER AUTOMOBILE INSURERS’, AND HEALTH BENEFIT 
PLAN INSURERS’ USE OF EXTERNAL CONSUMER DATA AND INFORMATION SOURCES, 
ALGORITHMS, AND PREDICTIVE MODELS 
Section 1 
Authority 
Section 2 
Scope and Purpose 
Section 3 
Applicability 
Section 4 
Definitions 
Section 5 
Governance and Risk Management Framework 
Section 6 
Reporting Requirements 
Section 7 
Confidentiality 
Section 8 
Severability 
Section 9 
Enforcement 
Section 10 
Effective Date 
Section 11 
History 
Section 1 
Authority 
This regulation is promulgated and adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance under the authority of §§ 
10-1-109 and 10-3-1104.9, C.R.S. 
Section 2 
Scope and Purpose 
This regulation establishes the governance and risk management requirements for insurers authorized to 
do business in Colorado and offering individual life insurance, private passenger automobile insurance, 
and/or health benefit plans that use external consumer data and information sources (ECDIS), as well as 
algorithms and predictive models that use ECDIS, in any insurance practice. 
Section 3 
Applicability 
This regulation shall apply to all insurers authorized to do business in the state of Colorado and offering 
the following types of insurance: 
A. 
Individually issued life insurance; 
B. 
Private passenger automobile insurance; and 
C. 
Health benefit plans. 
Section 4 
Definitions 
A. 
“Algorithm” shall have the same meaning as set forth in § 10-3-1104.9(8)(a), C.R.S. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-10 
Division of Insurance 
 
2 
B. 
“Covered Person” shall have the same meaning as set forth in § 10-16-102(15), C.R.S. 
C. 
“Division” means, for the purposes of this regulation, the Colorado Division of Insurance. 
D. 
“External Consumer Data and Information Source” or “ECDIS” means, for the purposes of this 
regulation: 
1. 
For life insurers, a data or an information source that is used by the insurer to supplement 
or supplant traditional underwriting factors or other insurance practices or to establish 
lifestyle indicators that are used in insurance practices. This term includes credit scores, 
social media habits, locations, purchasing habits, home ownership, educational 
attainment, licensures, civil judgments, court records, occupation that does not have a 
direct relationship to mortality, morbidity or longevity risk, consumer-generated Internet of 
Things data, biometric data, and any insurance risk scores derived by the insurer or third- 
party from the above listed or similar data and/or information sources. 
2. 
For private passenger automobile insurers, a data or an information source that is used 
by the insurer to supplement or supplant traditional underwriting factors or other 
insurance practices or to establish lifestyle indicators that are used in insurance 
practices. This term includes credit scores, social media habits, locations, purchasing 
habits, home ownership, educational attainment, licensures, civil judgments, court 
records, consumer-generated Internet of Things data including telematics data, biometric 
data, and any insurance risk scores derived by the insurer or third-party from the above 
listed or similar data and/or information sources. 
3. 
For health benefit plan insurers, a data or an information source that is used by the 
insurer to supplement or supplant traditional underwriting factors or other insurance 
practices or to establish lifestyle indicators that are used in insurance practices. This term 
includes credit scores, social media habits, locations, purchasing habits, home 
ownership, educational attainment, licensures, civil judgments, court records, consumer- 
generated Internet of Things data, biometric data, and any insurance risk scores derived 
by the insurer or third-party from the above listed or similar data and/or information 
sources. For health benefit plan insurers, ECDIS does not include an individual’s medical 
records. 
E. 
“Health Benefit Plan” shall have the same meaning as set forth in § 10-16-102(32), C.R.S. 
F. 
“Health Care Service” shall have the same meaning as set forth in § 10-16-102(33), C.R.S. 
G. 
“Insurance Practice” shall have the same meaning as set forth in § 10-3-1104.9(8), C.R.S. 
H. 
“Insurer” shall have the same meaning as set forth in § 10-1-202(6), C.R.S. 
I. 
“Internet of Things” means, for the purposes of this regulation, networks of physical objects 
embedded with sensors, software, and other technologies for the purposes of collecting, 
transmitting, and exchanging data over the Internet. This definition does not apply to devices that 
require direct human intervention for data collection and exchange. 
J. 
“Life Insurer” means, for the purpose of this regulation, an entity authorized and licensed by the 
commissioner of insurance to sell life insurance products in the state of Colorado. 
K. 
“Private Passenger Automobile Insurer” means, for the purpose of this regulation, an entity 
authorized and licensed by the commissioner of insurance to sell private passenger automobile 
insurance products in the state of Colorado.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-10 
Division of Insurance 
 
3 
L. 
“Provider” shall have the same meaning as set forth in § 10-16-102, C.R.S. 
M. 
“Predictive Model” shall have the same meaning as set forth in § 10-3-1104.9, C.R.S. 
N. 
“SERFF” means, for the purpose of this regulation, System of Electronic Rate and Form Filing. 
O. 
“Unfairly Discriminate” and “Unfair Discrimination” shall have the same meaning as set forth in § 
10-3-1104.9(8)(e), C.R.S. 
Section 5 
Governance and Risk Management Framework 
A. 
Insurers that offer products listed in Section 3 and that use ECDIS, as well as algorithms and 
predictive models that use ECDIS in any insurance practice, must establish a risk-based 
governance and risk management framework that facilitates and supports policies, procedures, 
systems, and controls designed to determine whether the use of such ECDIS, algorithms, and 
predictive models potentially result in unfair discrimination with respect to race and remediate 
unfair discrimination, if detected through quantitative testing requirements established by the 
Division. The governance and risk management framework must include the following 
components: 
1. 
Documented governing principles outlining the values and objectives of the insurer that 
provide the guidance necessary for ensuring that: 
a. 
ECDIS, and algorithms and predictive models that use ECDIS are designed, 
developed, used, and monitored in a manner that achieves effective oversight 
and management; and 
b. 
The use of ECDIS, and the algorithms and predictive models that use ECDIS are 
reasonably designed to prevent unfair discrimination. 
2. 
The governance structure and risk management framework must be overseen by the 
board of directors or a committee of the board. 
3. 
Senior management responsibility and accountability for setting and monitoring the 
overall strategy and providing direction governing the use of ECDIS, and algorithms and 
predictive models that use ECDIS. This includes establishing clear lines of 
communication and delegated decision-making authority, and regular reporting to senior 
management on the performance and potential risks of using ECDIS, and the algorithms 
and predictive models that use ECDIS. 
4. 
Documented cross-functional ECDIS, algorithm, and predictive model governance group 
composed of representatives from key functional areas including legal, compliance, risk 
management, product development, underwriting, actuarial, data science, marketing, and 
customer service, as applicable. 
5. 
Health benefit plan insurers shall ensure that a provider acting on behalf of the insurer is 
ultimately responsible for the decisions made when ECDIS, or algorithms or predictive 
models that use ECDIS, are used to inform decisions to modify, or deny requests by a 
covered person or a covered person’s provider for authorization prior to, or concurrent 
with, the provision of health care services to a covered person.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-10 
Division of Insurance 
 
4 
6. 
Documented policies, processes, and procedures, including assigned roles and 
responsibilities, for the design, development, testing, deployment, use, and ongoing 
monitoring of ECDIS, as well as algorithms and predictive models that use ECDIS, and 
processes to ensure that they are documented, tested, and validated. Such policies and 
processes must ensure the ECDIS is credible, relevant, and appropriate for its intended 
purpose or the intended purpose of the algorithm or predictive model and include an 
ongoing internal supervision and training program for relevant personnel on the 
responsible and compliant use of ECDIS, and the algorithms and predictive models that 
use ECDIS. 
7. 
Documented processes and protocols in place for addressing applicant, policyholder, 
beneficiary, or covered person complaints and inquiries about the use of ECDIS, as well 
as algorithms and predictive models that use ECDIS. Such policies and protocols must 
provide the applicant, policyholder, beneficiary, or covered person with information 
necessary to take meaningful action in the event of an adverse decision made based on 
the use of ECDIS, and the algorithms and predictive models that use ECDIS. Carriers 
may use existing procedures for grievances and appeals. 
8. 
Documented policies, procedures, and processes for assessing and prioritizing risks 
associated with the deployment of ECDIS, as well as algorithms and predictive models 
that use ECDIS, in insurance in practices with reasonable consideration given to the 
insurance practices’ impacts on applicants, policyholders, beneficiaries, or covered 
persons. 
9. 
Documented up-to-date inventory, including version control, of all utilized ECDIS, as well 
as algorithms and predictive models that use ECDIS, including a detailed description of 
each ECDIS, algorithm, and predictive model, their clearly stated purpose(s), and the 
outputs generated through their use. 
10. 
Documented explanation of any material change(s) in the inventory of all ECDIS, as well 
as all algorithms and predictive models that use ECDIS, and the rationale for the 
change(s). 
11. 
Documented description of quantitative testing conducted pursuant to requirements 
established by the Division to detect unfair discrimination in insurance practices resulting 
from the use of ECDIS, as well as algorithms and predictive models that use ECDIS, 
including the methodology, assumptions, results, and steps taken to address unfairly 
discriminatory outcomes. 
12. 
Documented description of ongoing monitoring regarding the performance of algorithms 
and predictive models that use ECDIS including accounting for model drift. 
13. 
Documented description of the process used for selecting external resources including 
third-party vendors that supply ECDIS, algorithms, and/or predictive models that use 
ECDIS including the intended use of the ECDIS, algorithm(s), and/or predictive model(s). 
14. 
Documented comprehensive annual reviews of the governance structure and risk 
management framework and updates to the required documentation to ensure its 
continued accuracy and relevance.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-10 
Division of Insurance 
 
5 
B. 
If an insurer uses third-party vendors and other external resources with respect to ECDIS, as well 
as algorithms and predictive models that use ECDIS, the insurer remains responsible for ensuring 
all requirements in Section 5.A. are met, including the production of any documents or information 
that the Division deems necessary to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements. The 
insurer must establish and document a process for the selection and oversight of all external 
resources and third-party vendors as part of the governance structure and risk management 
framework.  
Insurers may satisfy requests for documentation and information by third-party vendors providing 
the requested documents or information directly to the Division on behalf of the insurer 
C. 
For life insurers, all components of the governance structure and risk management framework 
required by Section 5 must be available upon request by the Division pursuant to § 10-3- 
1104.9(4), C.R.S. on December 1, 2024, and annually thereafter. For private passenger 
automobile and health benefit plan insurers, all components of the governance structure and risk 
management framework required by Section 5 must be available upon request by the Division on 
July 1, 2026, and annually thereafter. 
Section 6 
Reporting Requirements 
A. 
Insurers that offer products listed in Section 3 and that are using ECDIS, as well as algorithms 
and/or predictive models that use ECDIS, as of the effective date of this regulation must submit to 
the Division a narrative report summarizing the progress made towards complying with the 
requirements specified in Section 5 including identifying the areas still under development, any 
difficulties encountered, and expected completion date. This report is due June 1, 2024, for life 
insurers and December 1, 2025, for private passenger automobile insurers and health benefit 
plan insurers. 
B. 
Life insurers that are using ECDIS, as well as algorithms and/or predictive models that use 
ECDIS, as of the effective date of this regulation must submit to the Division on December 1, 
2024 and annually thereafter a report summarizing compliance with the requirements in Section 5 
and the title and qualifications of each individual responsible for ensuring compliance along with 
the specific requirement(s) from Section 5 for which that individual is responsible. 
C. 
Private passenger automobile insurers and health benefit plan insurers that are using ECDIS, as 
well as algorithms and/or predictive models that use ECDIS, as of the effective date of this 
regulation must submit to the Division on July 1, 2026 and annually thereafter a report 
summarizing compliance with the requirements in Section 5 and the title and qualifications of 
each individual responsible for ensuring compliance along with the specific requirement(s) from 
Section 5 for which that individual is responsible. 
D. 
As part of the reports required by Sections 6B and 6C, the names of each individual may also be 
provided but are unnecessary to comply with this requirement. These reports must be signed by 
an officer attesting to compliance with this regulation. In the event an insurer is unable to attest to 
compliance with this regulation, the insurer must submit to the Division a corrective action plan. 
This report shall be no more than ten (10) pages including an executive summary and address 
Sections 5.A.1. through 5.A.13. 
E. 
Insurers that do not use ECDIS or algorithms and/or predictive models that use ECDIS are 
exempt from the requirements described in Section 5 and must submit to the Division within one 
month of the effective date of this regulation and on December 1 annually thereafter an 
attestation signed by an officer indicating that the insurer does not use ECDIS or algorithms 
and/or predictive models that use ECDIS.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
3 CCR 702-10 
Division of Insurance 
 
6 
F. 
Insurers that do not use ECDIS or algorithms and/or predictive models that use ECDIS as of the 
effective date of this regulation but subsequently plan to use ECDIS or algorithms and/or 
predictive models that use ECDIS must submit to the Division the report specified in Section 6.B. 
prior to the use of ECDIS or algorithms and/or predictive models that use ECDIS. 
G. 
All reports required by this Section 6 shall be submitted in SERFF using Annual Report as the 
filing type. Separate filings shall be used for each insurer. The filing description shall indicate that 
the report is being submitted pursuant to Colorado Insurance Regulation 10-1-1. 
Section 7 
Confidentiality 
Any documents or materials disclosed to the Division as a result of this regulation, including documents 
submitted in SERFF, shall be subject to § 10- 3-1104.9(3)(d), C.R.S. 
Section 8 
Severability 
If any provision of this regulation or the application of it to any person or circumstance is for any reason 
held to be invalid, the remainder of this regulation shall not be affected. 
Section 9 
Enforcement 
Noncompliance with this regulation may result in the imposition of any sanctions made available in the 
Colorado statutes pertaining to the business of insurance, or other laws, which include the imposition of 
civil penalties, issuance of cease and desist orders, and/or suspensions or revocations of license, subject 
to the requirements of due process. 
Section 10 
Effective Date 
This amended regulation shall become effective on October 15, 2025. 
Section 11 
History 
New regulation effective November 14, 2023. 
Amended regulation effective October 15, 2025. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 11/14/2023. 
Entire rule eff. 10/15/2025.
