---
id: "4_CCR_748-1"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "4 CCR 748-1"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12211&fileName=4%20CCR%20748-1&type=pdf"
---

#### 4_CCR_748-1. 4 CCR 748-1

1 
DEPARTMENT OF REGULATORY AGENCIES 
Office of Speech-Language Pathology Certification 
SPEECH-LANGUAGE PATHOLOGIST RULES AND REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 748-1 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
1.1 
Authority 
These regulations are adopted pursuant to the authority in sections 12-20-204(1) and 12-305-115, C.R.S. 
and are intended to be consistent with the requirements of the State Administrative Procedures Act, 
section 24-4-101 et seq. (the “APA”), C.R.S., and the Speech-language Pathology Practice Act, sections 
12-305-101 et seq. (the “Act”), C.R.S. 
1.2 
Scope and Purpose 
These regulations shall govern the process to become a speech-language pathologist and the practice of 
speech-language pathology in Colorado. 
1.3 
Application for Certification 
The purpose of this Rule is to specify the form and manner of an application for speech-language 
pathologist certification, as required by section 12-305-107, C.R.S. 
A. 
An applicant for certification must: 
1. 
Submit a completed application for certification in a manner prescribed by the Director; 
2. 
Submit with the application all fees established by the Director pursuant to section 24-34-
101 et seq., C.R.S.; 
3. 
Attest that the applicant will, prior to providing speech-language pathology services to 
patients, maintain the professional liability insurance coverage required under Rule 1.6; 
4. 
Attest that the applicant has developed a written plan ensuring the security of patient 
records in compliance with section 12-305-118, C.R.S.; 
5. 
Attest that the information in the application is true and correct to the best of the 
applicant's knowledge and belief; and 
6. 
Submit additional information as may be required by the Director. 
1.4 
Education and Clinical Fellowship Requirements 
The purpose of this Rule is to detail the educational and clinical fellowship requirements for certification 
set forth in section 12-305-107(1), C.R.S. 
 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 748-1 
Office of Speech Language Pathology Certification 
 
2 
A. 
An applicant for certification must have successfully completed a master’s or higher degree in 
communication sciences and disorders granted by an accredited institution of higher education 
recognized by the United States Department of Education. An applicant is presumed to have met 
the requirements of this paragraph if the applicant has successfully completed a master’s or 
higher degree in a speech-language pathology program that is accredited by the Council on 
Academic Accreditation of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association or its successor 
association. 
B. 
An applicant for certification must have successfully completed a speech-language pathology 
clinical fellowship approved by either the Director or a Director-approved national certifying body. 
The American Speech-Language-Hearing Association is a Director-approved national certifying 
body. 
C. 
An applicant who holds a current Certificate of Clinical Competence (CCC) granted by the 
American Speech-Language-Hearing Association in speech-language pathology meets the 
education and clinical fellowship requirements of this Rule. 
D. 
The Director does not require that an applicant maintain ASHA membership as a condition of 
certification. 
1.5 
Examination Requirement 
The purpose of this Rule is to clarify the examination requirement set forth in section 12-305-107(1)(c), 
C.R.S. 
A. 
An applicant is eligible for certification by examination only if the applicant: 
1. 
Has passed the national examination approved by the American Speech-Language-
Hearing Association or its successor association; 
2. 
Has passed an examination that, in the Director’s determination, is substantially 
equivalent to the examination approved by the American Speech-Language-Hearing 
Association or its successor association, subject to the requirements of paragraph (B) of 
this Rule; or 
3. 
Holds a current Certificate of Clinical Competence (CCC), granted by the American 
Speech-Language-Hearing Association or its successor association, in speech-language 
pathology. 
B. 
An applicant seeking certification under subparagraph (A)(2) of this Rule bears the burden of 
proving to the Director that the examination is substantially equivalent to the examination 
approved by the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association or its successor association. 
1.6 
Certification by Endorsement 
The purpose of this Rule is to delineate the requirements for certification by endorsement set forth in 
section 12-20-202(3), C.R.S. 
A. 
An applicant who holds a current, valid license or certification as a speech-language pathologist 
in another jurisdiction or through the federal government, or who holds a military occupational 
specialty, as defined in section 24-4-201, C.R.S., may apply for certification by endorsement. 
B. 
An applicant may demonstrate substantially equivalent experience or credentials pursuant to 
section 12-20-202(3)(d), C.R.S., if the applicant meets the requirements of Rules 1.4 and 1.5.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 748-1 
Office of Speech Language Pathology Certification 
 
3 
C. 
A endorsement applicant who was licensed or certified in another jurisdiction on the basis of a 
current Certificate of Clinical Competence (CCC) granted by the American Speech- Language-
Hearing Association in speech-language pathology is be deemed to have met the requirements of 
Rules 1.4 and 1.5. 
1.7 
Certification Requirements: Credit for Military Experience 
The purpose of this Rule is to outline the conditions and procedures governing the evaluation of an 
applicant’s military training and experience under section 12-20-202(4), C.R.S. 
A. 
An applicant for certification as a speech-language pathologist may submit information about the 
applicant’s education, training, or experience acquired during military service. It is the applicant’s 
responsibility to provide timely and complete information for the Director’s review. 
B. 
In order to meet the requirements for certification, such education, training, or experience must be 
substantially equivalent to the required qualifications that are otherwise applicable at the time the 
application is received by the Director. 
C. 
The Director will determine, on a case-by-case basis, whether the applicant’s military education, 
training, or experience meet the requirements for certification. 
1.8 
Professional Liability Insurance 
The purpose of this Rule is to delineate the professional liability insurance requirements set forth in 
section 12-305-107(2) and (4), and section 12-305-108(2), C.R.S. 
A. 
A certificate holder or provisional certificate holder who provides speech-language pathology 
services to patients shall maintain or be covered by professional liability insurance coverage: 
1. 
With an insurance company authorized to do business in Colorado; and 
2. 
In an amount no less than one million dollars per claim and three million dollars per 
annum in the aggregate. 
B. 
A certificate holder or provisional certificate holder who is not providing speech-language 
pathology services to patients is exempt from maintaining and being covered by professional 
liability insurance coverage. 
C. 
An applicant, certificate holder, or provisional certificate holder shall submit proof of coverage to 
the Director upon request. 
1.9 
Reinstatement of Expired Certification 
The purpose of this Rule is to state the requirements for reinstatement of a certification that has expired, 
pursuant to sections 12-20-202 and 12-20-105, C.R.S. 
A. 
An applicant seeking reinstatement of an expired certification must complete a reinstatement 
application, pay a reinstatement fee, attest to complying with the professional liability insurance 
coverage requirements of Rule 1.6, and attest that the applicant has developed a written plan 
ensuring the security of patient records in compliance with section 12-305-118, C.R.S. 
B. 
An applicant seeking to reinstate a certification that has been expired for less than two (2) years 
from the date of receipt of the reinstatement application must provide documentation of ten 
Professional Development Activities (PDA), as defined in Rule 1.9, for each year the certificate 
was expired.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 748-1 
Office of Speech Language Pathology Certification 
 
4 
C. 
An applicant seeking to reinstate a certification that has been expired for two or more years but 
less than five years from the date of receipt of the reinstatement application must demonstrate 
competency to practice, in a manner required by the Director, by: 
1. 
Providing verification of licensure or certification in good standing from another state, 
along with proof of active practice in that state for two of the previous five years from the 
date of application for reinstatement; 
2. 
Providing documentation of the applicant’s completion, within the two years immediately 
preceding the application for reinstatement, of ten PDA, as defined in Rule 1.9, for each 
year the certificate was expired; 
3. 
Providing documentation that the applicant has active certification by the American 
Speech-Language-Hearing Association; or 
4. 
Any other means approved by the Director. 
D. 
An applicant seeking to reinstate a certification that has been expired for five or more years from 
the date of receipt of the reinstatement application must demonstrate competency to practice, in a 
manner required by the Director, by: 
1. 
Providing verification of licensure or certification in good standing from another state, 
along with proof of active practice in that state for two of the previous five years from the 
date of application for reinstatement; 
2. 
Providing evidence of supervised practice for a period of no less than six months, subject 
to the terms established by the Director; or 
3. 
Any other means approved by the Director. 
1.10 
Inactive Certification Status and Reactivation of Certification 
The purpose of this Rule is to specify the regulations governing inactive certification status and 
reactivation of certification as authorized under section 12-20-203, C.R.S. 
A. 
A certified speech-language pathologist may request inactive certification status in the manner 
prescribed by Director. 
B. 
A speech-language pathologist with an inactive certificate shall not engage in any act or conduct 
that constitutes the practice of speech-language pathology. 
C. 
A speech-language pathologist with an inactive certificate is exempt from the continuing 
professional competency requirements of section 12-305-109, C.R.S., and Rule 1.9. 
D. 
Inactive certificate status does not: 
1. 
Prevent the Director from investigating complaints or imposing discipline against a 
speech-language pathologist in accordance with Article 305 of Title 12, C.R.S.; or 
2. 
Limit or restrict the Director’s functions, duties, or obligations, under Article 305 of Title 
12, C.R.S. 
E. 
Except as otherwise provided by this Rule, a speech-language pathologist with an inactive 
certificate remains subject to all provisions of these rules and all provisions of Article 305 of Title 
12, C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 748-1 
Office of Speech Language Pathology Certification 
 
5 
F. 
A speech-language pathologist may reactivate an inactive certificate by: 
1. 
Submitting a completed application for reactivation and paying a fee established by the 
Director; 
2. 
Submitting proof, in a manner prescribed by the Director, that the speech-language 
pathologist’s licenses or certificates held in other states or jurisdictions are in good 
standing; 
3. 
Attesting that the applicant will, prior to providing speech-language pathology services to 
patients, maintain the professional liability insurance coverage required under Rule 1.6; 
and 
4. 
Providing documentation of the applicant’s completion, within the two (2) years 
immediately preceding the application for reactivation, of ten (10) PDA, as defined in Rule 
1.9, for each year the certificate was inactive. 
1.11 
Continuing Professional Competency 
The purpose of this Rule is to establish a program of ongoing continuing professional competency as set 
forth in section 12-305-109, C.R.S., wherein a certified speech-language pathologist shall maintain and 
demonstrate continuing professional competency in order to renew, reinstate, or reactivate a certificate to 
practice speech-language pathology in the state of Colorado. 
A. 
Definitions 
1. 
Continuing Professional Competency: the ongoing ability of a speech-language 
pathologist to learn, integrate, and apply the knowledge, skill, and judgment to practice as 
a speech- language pathologist according to generally accepted standards and 
professional ethical standards. 
2. 
Continuing Professional Development (CPD): the Director’s program through which a 
certificate holder can satisfy the continuing professional competency requirements in 
order to renew, reinstate, or reactivate a certificate. 
3. 
Deemed Status: a certificate holder who satisfies the continuing professional competency 
requirements of an accrediting body or entity approved by the Director pursuant to 
section 12-305-109(2), C.R.S., may qualify for “Deemed Status.” 
4. 
Learning Plan: the Director-approved form through which a certificate holder documents 
his/her goals and plans of learning that were developed from his/her reflective self- 
assessment (RSAT), which is defined below. A certificate holder shall execute his/her 
learning plan by completing professional development activities (PDA) as required before 
a certificate is renewed. 
5. 
Military Exemption: as set forth in section 12-20-302, C.R.S., a certificate holder who has 
been called to federally funded active duty for more than 120 days for the purpose of 
serving in a war, emergency or contingency may request an exemption from the 
continuing professional competency requirements for the renewal, reinstatement, or 
reactivation of his/her certification for the one year renewal period that falls within the 
period of service or within six months following the completion of service.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 748-1 
Office of Speech Language Pathology Certification 
 
6 
6. 
Professional Development Activities (PDA): learning activities undertaken to increase the 
certificate holder’s knowledge and skill or hone existing knowledge and skill for the 
purpose of continuing professional competency. PDA are equivalent to clock hours; one 
PDA is equal to one clock hour (60 minutes). 
7. 
Program Manual: an instructional guide to assist the certificate holder in understanding 
the continuing professional competency requirements and the CPD program. 
8. 
Reflective Self-assessment Tool (RSAT): a reflective practice tool in which a certificate 
holder can reflect upon his/her knowledge and skills pertaining to the foundational areas 
of speech- language pathology taking into account the certificate holder’s current level 
and area of practice. 
B. 
Continuing Professional Competency Requirements 
1. 
At the time of each certificate renewal, the certificate holder shall demonstrate continuing 
professional competency in order to renew by: 
a. 
Participation in the Continuing Professional Development (CPD) program; 
b. 
Participation in a program of continuing professional competency through an 
accrediting body or an entity approved by the Director as set forth in section 12-
305-109(2), C.R.S. this status is hereafter known as “Deemed Status” as defined 
herein; or 
c. 
Receiving an exemption for military service as defined in section 12-20-302, 
C.R.S. Military exemptions must be approved by the Division of Professions and 
Occupations. A certificate holder seeking a military exemption shall submit a 
request in writing with evidence that his/her military service meets the criteria 
established in section 12-20-302, C.R.S., and section (E) of this Rule. 
2. 
A certificate holder shall attest at the time of the renewal of a certificate to his/her 
compliance with continuing professional competency requirements. 
C. 
Continuing Professional Development (CPD) Program 
1. 
The CPD Program entails the following: 
a. 
The certificate holder shall complete the Reflective Self-Assessment Tool (RSAT) 
once per renewal period. A certificate holder shall use the form approved by the 
Director. 
b. 
The execution of a Learning Plan once per renewal period that is based upon the 
certificate holder’s RSAT. The certificate holder shall use the form approved by 
the Director. 
c. 
Accrual of ten PDA per year of each renewal period. 
2. 
Professional Development Activities (PDA) 
a. 
PDA must be relevant to the certificate holder’s practice as a speech-language 
pathologist and pertinent to his/her learning plan. The Director will not pre-
approve specific courses or providers. The certificate holder shall determine 
which activities and topics will meet his/her learning plan, and select an 
appropriate course and provider.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 748-1 
Office of Speech Language Pathology Certification 
 
7 
b. 
PDA are organized into the following six categories. One PDA is granted per one 
clock hour of qualifying activity with the exception of the category “Presentations” 
in which two PDA are credited for every one hour of presentation delivery. This 
2:1 ratio acknowledges the preparation of the presentation. PDAs are credited 
only once per presentation. 
(1) 
Volunteer Service 
(2) 
Mentoring/Supervision 
(3) 
Presentations 
(4) 
Coursework 
(5) 
Independent Learning 
(6) 
Group Study 
c. 
PDA must be earned through a minimum of two categories. Specifically, for each 
year of a renewal period, no more than five PDA will be credited in any one 
category. The exception to this requirement is the “Coursework” category in 
which all ten PDA may be accrued and credited. 
d. 
PDA will be accepted if the activity is included in the current Program Manual. 
The current Program Manual will be available to all certificate holders through the 
program and will set forth accepted PDA within each category. The Director has 
sole discretion to accept or reject PDA that are not identified in the current 
program manual. 
e. 
The total required annual PDA must be earned within the same year in which 
credit is requested. PDA will be credited toward only one renewal period. 
D. 
Audit of Compliance 
1. 
The following documentation is required for an audit of compliance of a certificate 
holder’s participation in the CPD program: 
a. 
a signed Learning Plan that contains the certificate holder’s goals in the form and 
manner set forth in the current Program Manual as approved by the Director. 
b. 
documentation of the required PDA in compliance with the current Program 
Manual and this Rule. 
c. 
the Director has sole discretion to accept or reject PDA that do not meet the 
criteria established by the Director as defined in the current Program Manual and 
this Rule. 
2. 
As set forth in section 12-305-109(4), C.R.S., records of assessments or other 
documentation developed or submitted in connection with the CPD Program are 
confidential and not subject to inspection by the public or discovery in connection with a 
civil action against a speech-language pathologist or other professional regulated under 
this title. A person or the Director shall not use the records or documents unless used by 
the Director to determine whether a speech-language pathologist is maintaining 
continuing professional competency to engage in the profession.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 748-1 
Office of Speech Language Pathology Certification 
 
8 
3. 
The current Program Manual will set forth the documentation methods and standards for 
compliance with this Rule. 
E. 
Deemed Status 
1. 
Qualification. In order to qualify for “Deemed Status” upon renewal, the certificate holder 
shall: 
a. 
Attest to his/her deemed status; and; 
b. 
Attest that the requested continuing professional competency program is 
substantially equivalent to the CPD program administered by the Director and 
must include, at a minimum each renewal period, the following components: 
(1) 
An assessment of knowledge and skills; 
(2) 
Ten contact hours of continuing education or learning activities per year 
of the renewal period; and 
(3) 
Demonstration of completion of continuing competency activities. 
2. 
Administrative Approval. The Director has sole discretion to administratively approve 
accrediting bodies and/or entities meeting the criteria established in this section. Once an 
accrediting body and/or entity is approved, such approval will be publically published. 
3. 
Compliance Audit. A Certificate holder claiming “Deemed Status” is subject to an audit of 
compliance. To satisfy an audit of compliance, the certificate holder shall submit 
appropriate evidence of participation in a qualifying program through submission of: 
a. 
A letter from the accrediting body or entity approved by the Director specifying 
that the certificate holder has completed the continuing professional competency 
program, or 
b. 
Other documentation approved by the Director which reflects the certificate 
holder’s completion of a program of continuing professional competency. 
F. 
Military Exemption. 
1. 
Military exemptions must be approved by the Division of Professions and Occupations. A 
certificate holder seeking a military exemption shall submit a request in writing with 
evidence that his/her military service meets the criteria established in section 12-20-302, 
C.R.S. 
2. 
After being granted a military exemption, in order to complete the renewal process, a 
certificate holder shall attest to his/her military exemption. 
G. 
Records Retention. A certificate holder shall retain documentation demonstrating his/her 
compliance for either two complete renewal periods or four years, whichever period is longer. 
H. 
Non-Compliance. Falsifying an attestation or other documentation regarding the certificate 
holder’s compliance with continuing professional competency requirements constitutes the 
falsification of information in an application and may be grounds for discipline pursuant to 
sections 12-305-112(2)(b) and (k), C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 748-1 
Office of Speech Language Pathology Certification 
 
9 
I. 
Reinstatement and Reactivation. A certificate holder seeking to reinstate or reactivate a certificate 
shall meet the continuing professional competency requirements detailed in Rule 1.7 and Rule 
1.8. 
1.12 
Duty to Self-Report Certain Medical Conditions 
The purpose of this Rule is to specify the notification requirements regarding a physical or mental illness 
or condition that affects a certificate holder’s ability to practice speech-language pathology or practice as 
a speech-language pathologist with reasonable skill and safety to patients, pursuant to section 12-305-
117, C.R.S. 
A. 
No later than thirty days from the date a physical or mental illness or condition affects a certified 
speech-language pathologist’s ability to perform speech-language pathology services with 
reasonable skill and safety, the certified speech-language pathologist shall provide the Director, 
in writing, the following information: 
1. 
The diagnosis and a description of the illness or condition; 
2. 
The date that the illness or condition was first diagnosed; 
3. 
The name of the current treatment provider and documentation from the current 
treatment provider confirming the diagnosis, date of onset, and treatment plan; and 
4. 
A description of the certified speech-language pathologist’s practice and any 
modifications, limitations or restrictions to that practice that have been made as a result 
of the illness or condition. 
B. 
The certified speech-language pathologist shall notify the Director of any worsening of the illness 
or condition, or any significant change in the illness or condition that affects the certified speech-
language pathologist’s ability to practice with reasonable skill and safety, within thirty days of the 
change of the illness or condition. The certified speech-language pathologist shall provide the 
Director, in writing, the following information: 
1. 
The name of the current treatment provider, documentation from the current treatment 
provider confirming the change of the illness or condition, the date that the illness or 
condition changed, the nature of the change of the illness or condition, and the current 
treatment plan; and 
2. 
A description of the certified speech-language pathologist’s practice, and any 
modifications, limitations, or restrictions to that practice that have been made as a result 
of the change of condition. 
C. 
Compliance with this Rule is a prerequisite for eligibility to enter into a Confidential Agreement 
with the Director pursuant to section 12-305-117, C.R.S. However, mere compliance with this 
Rule does not require the Director to enter into a Confidential Agreement. Rather, the Director will 
evaluate all facts and circumstances to determine whether a Confidential Agreement is 
appropriate. 
D. 
If the Director discovers that a certified speech-language pathologist has a mental or physical 
illness or condition that affects the certified speech-language pathologist’s ability to practice with 
reasonable skill and safety, and the certified speech-language pathologist has not timely notified 
the Director of such illness or condition, the certified speech-language pathologist may be subject 
to disciplinary action pursuant to section 12-305-112(2)(d)(I), C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 748-1 
Office of Speech Language Pathology Certification 
 
10 
1.13 
Duty to Report Convictions, Judgments, and Adverse Actions 
The purpose of this Rule is to clarify the requirements and procedures for reporting convictions, 
judgments, and other adverse actions in order to enforce the provisions of section 12-305-112, C.R.S. 
A. 
A certified speech-language pathologist shall report to the Director, in a manner established by 
the Director, within thirty days of: 
1. 
A felony conviction of the certificate holder, or a conviction of any crime related to the 
practice of speech-language pathology, whether under the laws of this or any other state 
or the United States (a guilty verdict, or a plea of guilty, nolo contendere, or no contest 
accepted by the court is considered a conviction); 
2. 
A disciplinary action imposed upon the certificate holder by another jurisdiction that 
licenses, certifies, or registers speech-language pathologists which would otherwise be a 
violation of section12-305-112, C.R.S., including but not limited to a citation, sanction, 
probation, civil penalty, or a denial, suspension, revocation or modification of a license or 
certificate, whether it is imposed by consent decree, order, or other decision, for any 
cause other than failure to pay a license fee by the due date or failure to meet continuing 
professional education or competency requirements; 
3. 
Revocation or suspension by another state board, municipality, federal or state agency of 
any health services related license or certificate; or 
4. 
Any judgment, award, or settlement of a civil action or arbitration, in any jurisdiction, in 
which there was a final judgment or settlement against the licensee or certificate holder 
with respect to the practice of speech-language pathology. 
B. 
Report contents. 
1. 
If the event is an action by any governmental agency, the report to the Director must 
include the name of the agency, its jurisdiction, the case name, court docket, proceeding 
or case number by which the event is designated, and a copy of the consent decree, 
order, or decision. 
2. 
If the event is a felony conviction, the report to the Director must include the court, its 
jurisdiction, the case name, the case number, a description of the matter or a copy of the 
indictment or charges, and any plea or verdict entered by the court. Within thirty days of 
the imposition of sentence for a felony conviction, the certificate holder shall provide to 
the Director a copy of the imposition of sentence. Within thirty days of the completion of 
any terms of the sentence, the certificate holder shall provide written notice to the 
Director of the completion of the sentence terms. 
3. 
If the event concerns a civil action or arbitration proceeding, the report to the Director 
must include the court or arbiter, the jurisdiction, the case name, the case number, a 
description of the matter or a copy of the complaint, and a copy of the verdict, the court or 
arbitration decision, or, if settled, the settlement agreement and court’s order of dismissal. 
C. 
In addition to any report required under this Rule, the speech-language pathologist may also 
submit a written statement of explanation. 
1.14 
Duty to Report Change of Contact Information to the Director’s Office 
The purpose of this Rule is to clarify the requirement for certificate holders to notify the Director of a 
change in submitted information pursuant to section 24-34-107, C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 748-1 
Office of Speech Language Pathology Certification 
 
11 
A certified speech-language pathologist shall report to the Office of Speech-Language Pathology 
Certification any name, address, telephone, or email change within thirty days of the change. The Office 
of Speech-Language Pathology Certification will not change a certified speech-language pathologist’s 
information of record without explicit written notification from the certified speech-language pathologist. 
Notification in any written manner approved by the Division is acceptable. 
1.15 
Use of Title 
The purpose of this Rule is to clarify the appropriate use of authorized titles pursuant to section 12-305-
105, C.R.S. 
A. 
A speech-language pathologist shall only use the titles authorized by section 12-305-105(1), 
C.R.S., in conjunction with the practice of speech-language pathology. 
B. 
A speech-language pathologist shall not use the term “Doctor” or “Dr.” in conjunction with the 
practice of speech-language pathology unless the speech-language pathologist has successfully 
completed a doctoral degree in communication sciences and disorders as described in section 
12-305-107(1)(a), C.R.S. 
1.16 
Protection & Disposition of Patient Records 
The purpose of this Rule is to specify a certified speech-language pathologist’s responsibilities with 
respect to the patient access to, and security, maintenance, storage, disposal, and disposition of patient 
records as set forth in section 12-305-118, C.R.S. 
A. 
For purposes of this Rule and section 12-305-118, C.R.S., “certified speech-language pathologist 
responsible for patient records” means a certified speech-language pathologist who is 
1. 
Required under generally accepted standards of practice to document, without limitation, 
patient history, care, progress, or status; or 
2. 
Responsible for patient access to, or the security, maintenance, storage, disposal, or 
disposition of patient records. 
B. 
A certified speech-language pathologist responsible for patient records shall comply with the 
requirements of section 12-305-118, C.R.S., and with state and federal laws pertaining to patient 
access to, or the security, maintenance, storage, disposal, or disposition of patient records. 
C. 
A certified speech-language pathologist responsible for patient records may comply with the 
requirements of section 12-305-118(1), C.R.S., by adopting a written plan used by a hospital, 
clinic, or other organization with whom the speech-language pathologist is affiliated, provided that 
the written plan complies with the requirements of this Rule. 
D. 
A certified speech-language pathologist responsible for patient records shall comply with his or 
her written plan developed under section 12-305-118(1), C.R.S., to the extent said plan does not 
violate state or federal law. 
E. 
If a practice is composed of multiple certified speech-language pathologists responsible for 
patient records, the practice may provide the information required by section 12-305-118(3), 
C.R.S., on behalf of all certificate holders in the practice. 
F. 
In the case of an investigation, pending disciplinary action, or other administrative action 
undertaken by the Director, a certified speech-language pathologist shall retain patient records 
until the investigation, disciplinary action, or other administrative action is complete.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 748-1 
Office of Speech Language Pathology Certification 
 
12 
1.17 
The Authorized Practice of Speech-Language Pathology by a Person Not Certified in 
Colorado 
The purpose of this Rule is to outline the conditions under which a speech-language pathologist not 
certified in Colorado may practice for a limited period of time under section 12-305-110(1)(e), C.R.S. 
A legally qualified speech-language pathologist from another state or country may, without the need for 
certification in Colorado, provide speech-language pathology services on behalf of a temporarily absent 
speech-language pathologist certified in this state, so long as the uncertified speech-language pathologist 
is acting in accordance with these rules and Article 305 of Title 12, C.R.S. The uncertified practice may 
not occur more than once annually and may not exceed a total of thirty calendar days’ duration. 
1.18 
Declaratory Orders 
The purpose of this Rule is to establish procedures for the handling of requests for declaratory orders 
filed pursuant to the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act at section 24-4-105(11), C.R.S. 
A. 
Any person or entity may petition the Director for a declaratory order to terminate controversies or 
remove uncertainties as to the applicability of any statutory provision or of any rule or order of the 
Director. 
B. 
The Director will determine, at her discretion and without notice to petitioner, whether to rule upon 
such petition. If the Director determines not rule upon such a petition, the Director will promptly 
notify the petitioner of her action and state the reasons for such decision. 
C. 
In determining whether to rule upon a petition filed pursuant to this Rule, the Director will consider 
the following matters, among others: 
1. 
Whether a ruling on the petition will terminate a controversy or remove uncertainties as to 
the applicability to petitioner of any statutory provisions or rule or order of the Director. 
2. 
Whether the petition involves any subject, question or issue that is the subject of a formal 
or informal matter or investigation currently pending before the Director or a court 
involving one or more petitioners. 
3. 
Whether the petition involves any subject, question or issue that is the subject of a formal 
or informal matter or investigation currently pending before the Director or a court but not 
involving any petitioner. 
4. 
Whether the petition seeks a ruling on a moot or hypothetical question or will result in an 
advisory ruling or opinion. 
5. 
Whether the petitioner has some other adequate legal remedy, other than an action for 
declaratory relief pursuant to C.R.C.P. 57, which will terminate the controversy or remove 
any uncertainty as to the applicability to the petitioner of the statute, rule, or order in 
question. 
D. 
Any petition filed pursuant to this Rule must set forth the following: 
1. 
The name and address of the petitioner and whether the petitioner is certified pursuant to 
Title 12, Article 305, C.R.S. 
2. 
The statute, rule, or order to which the petition relates.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 748-1 
Office of Speech Language Pathology Certification 
 
13 
3. 
A concise statement of all of the facts necessary to show the nature of the controversy or 
uncertainty and the manner in which the statute, rule, or order in question applies or 
potentially applies to the petitioner. 
E. 
If the Director determines that she will rule on the petition, the following procedures apply: 
1. 
The Director may rule upon the petition based solely upon the facts presented in the 
petition. In such a case: 
a. 
Any ruling of the Director will apply only to the extent of the facts presented in the 
petition and any amendment to the petition. 
b. 
The Director may order the petitioner to file a written brief, memorandum, or 
statement of position. 
c. 
The Director may set the petition, upon due notice to petitioner, for a non-
evidentiary hearing. 
d. 
The Director may dispose of the petition on the sole basis of the matters set forth 
in the petition. 
e. 
The Director may request the petitioner to submit additional facts in writing. In 
such event, such additional facts will be considered as an amendment to the 
petition. 
f. 
The Director may take administrative notice of facts pursuant to the Colorado 
Administrative Procedure Act at section 24-4-105(8), C.R.S., and may utilize her 
experience, technical competence, and specialized knowledge in the disposition 
of the petition. 
g. 
If the Director rules upon the petition without a hearing, she will promptly notify 
the petitioner of her decision. 
2. 
The Director may, at her discretion, set the petition for hearing, upon due notice to 
petitioner, for the purpose of obtaining additional facts or information or to determine the 
truth of any facts set forth in the petition or to hear oral argument on the petition. The 
hearing notice to the petitioner must set forth, to the extent known, the factual or other 
matters that the Director intends to inquire. For the purpose of such a hearing, to the 
extent necessary, the petitioner has the burden of proving all the facts stated in the 
petition; all of the facts necessary to show the nature of the controversy or uncertainty; 
and the manner in which the statute, rule, or order in question applies or potentially 
applies to the petitioner and any other facts the petitioner desires the Director to consider. 
F. 
The parties to any proceeding pursuant to this Rule are the Director and the petitioner. Any other 
person may seek leave of the Director to intervene in such a proceeding, and leave to intervene 
will be granted at the sole discretion of the Director. A petition to intervene must set forth the 
same matters as are required by Section D of this Rule. Any reference to a “petitioner” in this 
Rule also refers to any person who has been granted leave to intervene by the Director. 
G. 
Any declaratory order or other order disposing of a petition pursuant to this Rule constitutes 
agency action subject to judicial review pursuant to the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act at 
section 24-4-106, C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 748-1 
Office of Speech Language Pathology Certification 
 
14 
1.19 
PROVISIONAL SPEECH LANGUAGE PATHOLOGY CERTIFICATION 
The purpose of this Rule is to establish the qualifications and procedures for applicants seeking a 
provisional license to practice as a Speech Language Pathologist pursuant to section 12-305-108, C.R.S. 
A. 
An applicant for provisional certification must have: 
1. 
Successfully completed a master’s or higher degree in communication sciences and 
disorders granted by an accredited institution of higher education recognized by the 
United States department of education. An applicant is presumed to have met the 
requirements of this paragraph if the applicant has successfully completed a master’s or 
higher degree in a speech-language pathology program that is accredited by the council 
on academic accreditation of the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association or its 
successor association; and, 
2. 
Passed either: 
a. 
The national examination approved by the American Speech-Language-Hearing 
Association or its successor association; or, 
b. 
An examination that, in the Director’s determination, is substantially equivalent to 
the examination approved by the American Speech-Language-Hearing 
Association or its successor association. 
(1) 
An applicant seeking certification under subparagraph (a)(2)(b) of this 
Rule bears the burden of proving to the Director that the examination is 
substantially equivalent to the examination approved by the American 
Speech-Language-Hearing Association or its successor association 
B. 
An applicant for provisional certification must: 
1. 
Submit a completed application for provisional certification in a manner prescribed by the 
Director; 
2. 
Submit with the application all fees established by the Director pursuant to sections 24-
34-101 et seq., C.R.S.; 
3. 
Attest that the applicant will, prior to providing speech-language pathology services to 
patients, maintain the professional liability insurance coverage required under Rule 1.6; 
4. 
Attest that the applicant has developed a written plan for the completion of a speech-
language pathology clinical fellowship. 
5. 
Attest that the information in the application is true and correct to the best of the 
applicant's knowledge and belief; and 
6. 
Submit additional information as may be required by the Director. 
C. 
A provisional speech–language pathology certificate may be issued one time unless the 
certificate holder applies at least sixty days prior to the expiration of the provisional certification 
for a twelve month hardship extension of a provisional certification. The Director will consider the 
following criteria: 
1. 
The negative effects on access to care in the community served by the provisional 
certificant or the employer of the provisional certificant;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 748-1 
Office of Speech Language Pathology Certification 
 
15 
2. 
Financial hardship; or 
3. 
Health hardships (Own or family member); or 
4. 
Lack of available supervisor or work; or 
5. 
Rural area hardship; or 
6. 
Educational Institute hardship; or 
7. 
Other good cause as determined by the Director. 
D. 
A provisional speech-language pathologist certificate expires no later than twenty-four months 
from the date of issuance unless a one time twelve month extension is granted pursuant to 
section (C) of this Rule. 
E. 
A provisional speech-language pathologist shall maintain and be covered by professional liability 
insurance in accordance with Rule 1.6, and submit proof of coverage to the Director upon 
request. 
F. 
A provisional speech language pathologist shall submit a plan for the completion of a speech-
language pathology clinical fellowship upon the Director’s request. 
1.20 
[Emergency rule expired 05/09/2023] 
1.23 
REQUIRED DISCLOSURE TO PATIENTS – CONVICTION OF OR DISCIPLINE BASED ON 
SEXUAL MISCONDUCT 
A. 
On or after March 1, 2021, a provider, shall disclose to a patient, as defined in section 12-30-
115(1)(a), C.R.S., instances of sexual misconduct, including a conviction or guilty plea as set 
forth in section 12-30-115(2)(a), C.R.S., or final agency action resulting in probation or limitation 
of the provider’s ability to practice as set forth is section 12-30-115(2)(b), C.R.S. 
B. 
Form of Disclosure: The written disclosure shall include all information specified in section 12-30-
115(3), C.R.S., and consistent with the sample model disclosure form as set forth in Appendix B 
to these rules. The patient must, through his or her signature on the disclosure form, 
acknowledge the receipt of the disclosure and agree to treatment with the registrant. 
C. 
Timing of Disclosure: This disclosure shall be provided to a patient the same day the patient 
schedules a professional services appointment with the provider. If an appointment is scheduled 
the same day that services will be provided or if an appointment is not necessary, the disclosure 
must be provided in advance of the treatment. 
1. 
The written disclosure and agreement to treatment must be completed prior to each 
treatment appointment with a patient unless the treatment will occur in a series over 
multiple appointments or a patient/patient schedules follow-up treatment appointments. 
2. 
For treatment series or follow-up treatment appointments, one disclosure prior to the first 
appointment is sufficient, unless the information the provider is required to disclose 
pursuant to section 12-30-115, C.R.S., has changed since the most recent disclosure, in 
which case an updated disclosure must be provided to a patient and signed before 
treatment may continue.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 748-1 
Office of Speech Language Pathology Certification 
 
16 
D. 
As set forth in section 12-30-115(3)(e), C.R.S., the requirement to disclose the conviction, guilty 
plea, or agency action ends when the provider has satisfied the requirements of the probation or 
other limitation and is no longer on probation or otherwise subject to a limitation on the ability to 
practice the provider’s profession. 
E. 
A provider is not required to provide the written disclosure before providing professional services 
to the patient in the following instances as set forth in section 12-30-115(4), C.R.S.: 
1. 
The patient is unconscious or otherwise unable to comprehend the disclosure and sign 
an acknowledgment of receipt of the disclosure pursuant to section 12-30-115(3)(d), 
C.R.S., and a guardian of the patient is unavailable to comprehend the disclosure and 
sign the acknowledgment; 
2. 
The visit occurs in an emergency room or freestanding emergency department or the visit 
is unscheduled, including consultations in inpatient facilities; or 
3. 
The provider who will be treating the patient during the visit is not known to the patient 
until immediately prior to the start of the visit. 
F. 
The provider who does not have a direct treatment relationship or have direct contact with the 
patient is not required to make the disclosure required by this section. 
1.24 
[Emergency rule expired 05/09/2023] 
1.25 
Concerning Health Care Provider Disclosures to Consumers about the Potential Effects of 
Receiving Emergency or Nonemergency Services from an Out-of-Network Provider 
This rule is promulgated pursuant to sections 12-20-204, 12-30-112, and 12-305-115, C.R.S., in 
consultation with the Commissioner of Insurance and the State Board of Health. The purpose of this rule 
is to establish requirements for health care providers to provide disclosures to covered persons who are 
utilizing a health benefit plan about the potential of balance billing when receiving post-stabilization 
services or covered non-emergency services from an out-of-network provider at an in-network facility. 
This rule applies to health care providers. Balance billing by a health care provider is only permitted when 
the criteria established in Colorado law, including but not limited to sections 12-30-112 and 12-30-113, 
C.R.S., are met. 
A. 
Definitions, for purposes of this rule, are as follows: 
1. 
“Ancillary Services” as defined in section 12-30-112(1)(a), C.R.S. 
2. 
“Balance Bill” and “Balance Billing” as defined in section 10-16-704(19)(c), C.R.S. 
3. 
“Covered Non-emergency Services” means services that are not emergency services as 
defined in section 10-16-704(19)(e), C.R.S., are services covered by a covered person’s 
health benefit plan, and are not ancillary services as defined in section 12-30-112(1)(a), 
C.R.S. 
4. 
“Covered Person” as defined by section 10-16-102(15), C.R.S. 
5. 
“Health Benefit Plan” as defined by section 10-16-102(32), C.R.S. 
6. 
“Health Care Provider” means “provider,” as defined in section 10-16-102(56), C.R.S. 
7. 
“In-Network Facility” means a facility, either within or outside of Colorado, that, under a 
contract with a carrier or with its contractor or subcontractor, has agreed to provide

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 748-1 
Office of Speech Language Pathology Certification 
 
17 
health-care services to covered persons with an expectation of receiving payment, other 
than coinsurance, copayments, or deductibles, directly or indirectly, from the carrier. 
8. 
“Out-of-Network Provider” means a Health Care Provider who is not a “Participating 
Provider.” 
9. 
“Participating Provider” as defined in section 10-16-102(46), C.R.S. 
10. 
“Post-Stabilization Services” means covered services related to an emergency medical 
condition, as defined in section 10-16-704(19)(d), C.R.S., that are provided once the 
criteria set forth in section 10-16-704(19)(e)(III) are met. 
B. 
Disclosure requirements. 
1. 
An Out-of-Network Provider may balance bill a Covered Person for (a) Post-Stabilization 
Services in accordance with section 10-16-704, C.R.S., and (b) Covered Non-Emergency 
Services provided in an In-Network Facility that are not Ancillary Services, but only if the 
Out-of-Network Provider meets the requirements set forth in section 12-30-112(3.5), 
C.R.S. 
2. 
If a Covered Person may incur a claim for Post-Stabilization Services or Covered Non-
Emergency Services from an Out-of-Network Provider, the Out-of-Network Provider shall 
complete and provide the notice contained in Appendix A of these rules or a similar 
disclosure which complies with the requirements set forth in section 12-30-112(3.5), 
C.R.S. 
3. 
Such notice must be provided in the 15 most common languages in Colorado, which, for 
purposes of this regulation, are English, Spanish, Vietnamese, Chinese, Korean, 
Russian, Amharic, Arabic, German, French, Nepali, Tagalog, Japanese, Cushite, 
Persian. 
C. 
If applicable and in addition to their responsibilities under this Rule, Health Care Providers shall 
also comply with the “No Surprises Act,” 42 U.S.C.A. § 300gg-111, Pub.L 116-260, as amended. 
D. 
Noncompliance with this Rule may result in the imposition of any of discipline made available by 
section 12-305-112(1)(e). 
1.26 
Protections for Provision of Reproductive Health Care in Colorado 
This Rule is promulgated pursuant to Executive Order D 2022 032, and sections 25-6-401 et seq.,12-305-
115, and 12-20-204, C.R.S. 
A. 
Definitions, for purposes of this Rule, are as follows: 
1. 
“Applicant” means as defined in section 12-20-102(2), C.R.S. 
2. 
“Assisting in the provision reproductive health care” means aiding, abetting or complicity 
in the provision of reproductive health care. 
3. 
“Certificate holder” or “certificant” means as defined in section 12-20-102(3), C.R.S. 
4. 
“Civil judgment” means a final court decision and order resulting from a civil lawsuit. 
5. 
“Criminal judgment” means a guilty verdict, a plea of guilty, a plea of nolo contendere, or 
a deferred judgment or sentence.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 748-1 
Office of Speech Language Pathology Certification 
 
18 
6. 
“Provision of reproductive health care,” includes but is not limited to, transportation for 
reproductive health care, referrals for reproductive health care and related services, 
funding or assisting with payment of reproductive health care, prescribing, shipping or 
dispensing medications for reproductive health care in accordance with state and federal 
law, all options and mental health counseling and treatment related to reproductive health 
care. The “provision of reproductive health care” also includes all treatment contemplated 
in the definition of section 25-6-402(4), C.R.S. 
7. 
“Regulator” means as defined in section 12-20-102(14), C.R.S. 
8. 
“Reproductive health care” means as defined in section 25-6-402(4), C.R.S. 
B. 
The regulator shall not deny certification to an applicant or impose disciplinary action against an 
individual’s certificate based solely on the applicant or certificate holder’s provision of or 
assistance in the provision of reproductive health care in this state or any other state or U.S. 
territory, so long as the care provided was consistent with generally accepted standards of 
practice as defined in Colorado law and did not otherwise violate Colorado law. 
C. 
The regulator shall not deny certification to an applicant or impose disciplinary action against an 
individual’s certificate based solely on a civil or criminal judgment against the applicant or 
certificate holder arising from the provision of, or assistance in the provision of reproductive 
health care in this state or any other state or U.S. territory, so long as the care provided was 
consistent with generally accepted standards of practice and did not otherwise violate Colorado 
law. 
D. 
The regulator shall not deny certification to an applicant or impose disciplinary action against an 
individual’s certificate based solely on a professional disciplinary action or any other sanction 
against the applicant’s or certificate holder’s professional certification in this, or any other state or 
U.S. territory so long as the professional disciplinary action is based solely on the applicant’s or 
certificate holder’s provision of, or assistance in the provision of, reproductive health care and the 
care provided was consistent with generally accepted standards of practice and did not otherwise 
violate Colorado law. 
E. 
The regulator shall not deny certification to an applicant or impose disciplinary action against an 
individual’s certificate based solely on the applicant or certificate holder’s own personal effort to 
seek or obtain reproductive health care for themselves. The regulator shall not deny certification 
to an applicant or impose disciplinary action against an individual’s certificate based solely on a 
civil or criminal judgment against the applicant or certificate holder arising from the individual’s 
own personal receipt of reproductive health care in this state or any other state or U.S. territory. 
1.27 
Protecting Colorado’s Workforce and Expanding Licensing Opportunities 
This Rule is promulgated pursuant to Executive Order D 2022 034, and sections 12-305-115, and 12-20-
204, C.R.S. 
A. 
Definitions, for purposes of this Rule, are as follows: 
1. 
“Applicant” means as defined in section 12-20-102(2), C.R.S. 
2. 
“Certificate holder” or “certificant” means as defined in section 12-20-102(3), C.R.S. 
3. 
“Civil judgment” means a guilty verdict, a plea of guilty, a plea of nolo contendere, or a 
deferred judgment or sentence. 
4. 
“Criminal judgment” means criminal conviction as defined in Rule 1.1.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 748-1 
Office of Speech Language Pathology Certification 
 
19 
5. 
“Licensee” means as defined in section 12-20-102(10), C.R.S. 
6. 
“Regulator” means as defined in section 12-20-102(14), C.R.S. 
B. 
[Expired 05/15/2023 per Senate Bill 23-102] 
C. 
[Expired 05/15/2023 per Senate Bill 23-102]

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 748-1 
Office of Speech Language Pathology Certification 
 
20 
APPENDIX A 
BALANCE BILLING NOTICE 
PATIENT RIGHTS INFORMATION 
Check the appropriate box: 
☐ 
Your provider is proposing to use an out-of-network care provider in delivering your 
health care service(s). This facility is in-network with your insurance but there may be 
care providers involved in your care that are out-of-network. 
☐ 
Your provider is proposing to deliver post-stabilization care at an out-of-network facility. 
You have received emergency services at the out-of-network facility and are now 
stabilized, but you may require additional health care services. 
You are not required to consent to receive these services from the out-of-network care provider or 
continue to receive post-stabilization care at an out-of-network facility. If you choose to proceed with the 
proposed out-of-network care provider or facility you may be billed for costs detailed in the Good Faith 
Estimate below. The additional costs you pay may not accrue toward insurance cost sharing or 
deductibles. 
You may choose to use an in-network provider from the list below or you may choose to transfer your 
care to an in-network facility for post-stabilization services. If you choose to proceed with an in-network 
provider or transfer to an in-network facility, the cost will not exceed the amount allowed by your 
insurance plan. 
You chose to receive this Notice ☐ electronically or ☐ in paper form. 
This notice must have been provided to you, either in paper or electronically, per your preference within 
the following timeframes: 
1. 
At least seventy-two hours in advance of the date of services, if the appointment was 
scheduled at least seventy-two hours in advance; 
2. 
At least three hours before the scheduled appointment, if the appointment was made less 
than seventy-two hours in advance. 
This is not a contract for services. Your provider is required to retain this form for seven years. 
This form must be available to you in the 15 languages most common to the geographic region where 
your provider is located, which include English, Spanish, Vietnamese, Chinese, Korean, Russian, 
Amharic, Arabic, German, French, Nepali, Tagalog, Japanese, Cushite, and Persian. 
BILLING ADVISEMENT 
(choose applicable billing scenario) 
☐ 
Out-of-Network Provider at In-Network Facility 
Your provider is proposing to use an out-of-network care provider in delivering your service(s). That out-
of-network provider is/are:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 748-1 
Office of Speech Language Pathology Certification 
 
21 
[PROVIDER NAME] 
Description of service(s) to be provided by an in-network facility by an out-of-network provider: 
[SERVICE] 
You scheduled the service(s) on [DATE] at [TIME]. You are planning to receive the service(s) stated 
above on [DATE] at [TIME] 
Do you need prior authorization from your insurance company for the service(s) provided at this facility? 
[Y / N] 
Good Faith Estimate for the total cost of the service(s) to you, the patient: 
[$] 
Does this facility employ in-network care providers who provide the service(s) detailed above? 
[Y / N] 
If Yes, the in-network care provider(s) who provide the service(s) are: 
[PROVIDER NAME] 
NOTE: If there is no in-network provider to provide the service(s) at this in-network facility you cannot be 
balanced billed for the services provided by the out-of-network provider. OR 
☐ 
Post-Stabilization Services 
Your provider is proposing to deliver post-stabilization care at an out-of-network facility. The out-of-
network facility is and/or the provider(s) is/are: 
[FACILITY/PROVIDER NAME] 
Description of post-stabilization service(s) to be provided by an out-of-network facility or provider: 
[SERVICE] 
You scheduled the service(s) on [DATE] at [TIME]. You are planning to receive the service(s) stated 
above on [DATE] at [TIME].  
Good Faith Estimate for the total cost of the service(s) to you, the patient: 
[$] 
I [PATIENT NAME] received this form at [TIME] on [DATE]. 
___________________________________________ 
SIGNATURE OF PATIENT 
[TIME] and [DATE]

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 748-1 
Office of Speech Language Pathology Certification 
 
22 
APPENDIX B 
MODEL SEXUAL MISCONDUCT DISCLOSURE STATEMENT 
DISCLAIMER: This Model Sexual Misconduct Disclosure Statement is to be used as a guide only and is 
aimed only to assist the practitioner in complying with section 12-30-115, C.R.S., and the rules 
promulgated pursuant to this statute by the Director. As a licensed, registered, and/or certified health care 
provider in the State of Colorado, you are responsible for ensuring that you are in compliance with state 
statutes and rules. While the information below must be included in your Sexual Misconduct Disclosure 
Statement pursuant to section 12-30-115, C.R.S., you are welcome to include additional information that 
specifically applies to your situation and practice. 
A. 
Provider information, including, at a minimum: name, business address, and business telephone 
number. 
B. 
A listing of any final convictions of or a guilty plea to a sex offense, as defined in section 16-11.7-
102(3), C.R.S. 
C. 
For each such conviction or guilty plea, the provider shall provide, at a minimum: 
1. 
The date that the final judgment of conviction or guilty plea was entered; 
2. 
The nature of the offense or conduct that led to the final conviction or guilty plea; 
3. 
The type, scope, and duration of the sentence or other penalty imposed, including 
whether: 
a. 
The provider entered a guilty plea or was convicted pursuant to a criminal 
adjudication; 
b. 
The provider was placed on probation and, if so, the duration and terms of the 
probation and the date the probation ends; and 
c. 
The jurisdiction that imposed the final conviction or issued an order approving the 
guilty plea. 
D. 
A listing of any final agency action by a professional regulatory board or agency that results in 
probationary status or other limitation on the provider’s ability to practice if the final agency action 
is based in whole or in part on: 
1. 
a conviction for or a guilty plea to a sex offense, as defined in section 16-11.7-102(3), 
C.R.S. or a finding by the professional regulatory board or Director that the provider 
committed a sex offense, as defined in as defined in section 16-11.7-102(3), C.R.S.; OR 
2. 
a finding by a professional regulatory board or agency that the provider engaged in 
unprofessional conduct or other conduct that is grounds for discipline under the part or 
article of Title 12 of the Colorado Revised Statutes that regulates the provider’s 
profession, where the failure or conduct is related to, includes, or involves sexual 
misconduct that results in harm to a patient or presents a significant risk of public harm to 
patients.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 748-1 
Office of Speech Language Pathology Certification 
 
23 
E. 
For each such final agency action by a professional regulatory board or agency the provider shall 
provide, at a minimum: 
1. 
The type, scope, and duration of the agency action imposed, including whether: 
a. 
the regulator and provider entered into a stipulation; 
b. 
the agency action resulted from an adjudicated decision; 
c. 
the provider was placed on probation and, if so, the duration and terms of 
probation; and 
d. 
the professional regulatory board or agency imposed any limitations on the 
provider’s practice and, if so, a description of the specific limitations and the 
duration of the limitations. 
2. 
The nature of the offense or conduct, including the grounds for probation or practice 
limitations specified in the final agency action; 
3. 
The date the final agency action was issued; 
4. 
The date the probation status or practice limitation ends; and 
5. 
The contact information for the professional regulatory board or agency that imposed the 
final agency action on the provider, including information on how to file a complaint. 
 
Sample Signature Block 
I have received and read the sexual misconduct disclosure by [Provider Name] and I agree to treatment 
by [Provider Name]. 
_______________________________________________________________ 
Print Client Name 
_______________________________________________________________ 
Client or Responsible Party’s Signature  
 
 
Date 
 
If signed by Responsible Party (parent, legal guardian, or custodian), print Responsible Party’s name and 
relationship to client:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 748-1 
Office of Speech Language Pathology Certification 
 
24 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 05/15/2013. 
Basis, Purpose, and Statutory Authority, Rules 7-9 eff. 11/30/2014. 
Basis, Purpose, and Statutory Authority, Rules 6, 18 eff. 08/30/2015. 
Rule 1.19, Appendix A emer. rules eff. 01/01/2020; expired 04/29/2020. 
Rule 1.19, Appendix A eff. 04/30/2020. 
Rule 1.20 emer. rule eff. 05/01/2020; expired 08/29/2020. 
Rule 1.21 emer. rule eff. 05/11/2020; expired 09/08/2020. 
Rule 1.20 emer. rule eff. 08/30/2020. 
Rule 1.21 emer. rule eff. 09/09/2020. 
Entire rule eff. 12/15/2020. 
Rules 1.20, 1.21 emer. rules eff. 12/28/2020. 
Rule 1.24 emer. rule eff. 01/11/2021. 
Rules 1.20, 1.21 emer. rules eff. 04/27/2021. 
Rule 1.24 emer. rule eff. 05/11/2021. 
Rules 1.23 E-F eff. 05/30/2021. 
Rules 1.20, 1.24 emer. rules eff. 07/12/2021. 
Rules 1.20, 1.24 emer. rules eff. 11/02/2021. 
Rules 1.20, 1.24 emer. rules eff. 03/02/2022. 
Rules 1.20, 1.24 emer. rules eff. 06/28/2022. 
Rules 1.26, 1.27 emer. rules eff. 08/15/2022. 
Rule 1.6 eff. 09/14/2022. 
Rules 1.20, 1.24 emer. rules eff. 10/26/2022. 
Rules 1.20, 1.24 emer. rules eff. 11/11/2022. 
Rules 1.19, 1.25-1.27, Appendix A eff. 11/30/2022. 
Rules 1.20, 1.24 emer. rules eff. 01/09/2023; expired 05/09/2023. 
Rules 1.25, Appendix A eff. 10/30/2025. 
Annotations 
Rule 1.23 E.4 (adopted 10/21/2020) was not extended by Senate Bill 21-152 and therefore expired 
05/15/2021. 
Rules 1.27 B. and 1.27 C. (adopted 10/10/2022) were not extended by Senate Bill 23-102 and therefore 
expired 05/15/2023.
