---
id: "4_CCR_747-1"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "4 CCR 747-1"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=8508&fileName=4%20CCR%20747-1&type=pdf"
---

#### 4_CCR_747-1. 4 CCR 747-1

1 
DEPARTMENT OF REGULATORY AGENCIES 
Director of Professions and Occupations - Professional Review Program 
REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS FOR GOVERNING BOARDS 
4 CCR 747-1 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
1.1 
COLORADO DIVISION OF PROFESSIONS AND OCCUPATIONS RULE REGARDING THE 
REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS FOR GOVERNING BOARDS 
A. 
Introduction 
1. 
Basis: The general authority for promulgation of rules by the Director of the Division of 
Professions and Occupations (Director) is set forth in section 12-30-206(4), C.R.S., 
whereby, the Division shall adopt rules to implement the registration system required by 
12-30-206(2)(a), C.R.S. 
2. 
Purpose: The following Rule has been adopted by the Director to define the registration 
requirements for governing boards who have one or more existing professional review 
committees as required by 12-30-206(2)(a), C.R.S. 
3. 
Requirements: Concerning Registration of Governing Boards 
In order to be afforded the immunity set forth in Article 30, Title 12 concerning 
professional review of patient care or professional conduct of persons licensed under 
Article 240 of Title 12 or licensed under Article 255 of Title 12 and granted authority as 
advanced practice nurses, a governing board that establishes one or more professional 
review committees to review such care or conduct must appropriately register and update 
registration information within thirty days of a change to the required elements. To satisfy 
the registration requirements of the statute and this Rule, governing boards must register 
electronically using the Division of Occupations and Professions website and provide the 
following data elements: 
a. 
Governing board name 
b. 
Governing board physical address 
c. 
Governing board mailing address 
d. 
Governing board Point of Contact which includes first and last name, title, phone 
number, and email address. 
e. 
Governing board alternate point of contact which includes first and last name, 
title, phone number, and email address. 
4. 
A governing board that no longer engages or plans to discontinue engagement in Board 
Review activities can remove its registration by submitting a request in writing to the 
Division. 
Adopted: 12/20/2012, Effective: 02/14/2013 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 747-1 
Director of Professions and Occupations – Professional Review Program 
 
2 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 02/14/2013. 
Entire rule eff. 01/14/2020.
