---
id: "4_CCR_904-4"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "4 CCR 904-4"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12507&fileName=4%20CCR%20904-4&type=pdf"
---

#### 4_CCR_904-4. 4 CCR 904-4

1 
Department of Law 
Attorney General-Consumer Protection Section 
TRANSFERABILITY OF TRAINING AND CREDENTIALS SUBJECT TO TRAINING 
REPAYMENT AGREEMENT PROVISIONS 
4 CCR 904-4 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
A training or credential is transferable for the purposes of C.R.S. Section 8-2-113(3)(a) 
when it is engaged in voluntarily by the employee and directly results in either   
(a) 
an educational degree or certification from  
i. 
a private college or university authorized to operate in Colorado under 
C.R.S. Section 23-2-103.3;  
ii. 
a private occupational school with a certificate of approval under C.R.S. 
Section 23-64-115(1); 
iii. 
a community or technical college identified in C.R.S. Section 23-60-205; or  
iv. 
a public institute of higher education as defined in C.R.S. Section 23-4.5-
102(7); or 
(b) 
a license  
i. 
as defined in C.R.S. Section 12-20-102(9);  
ii. 
a commercial driver’s license as defined in C.R.S. Section 42-2-402(1);  
iii. 
any license defined in Colorado law; 
iv. 
a comparable license or credential defined in the law of any other state, 
territory, district, or federally recognized Indian Tribe; or  
v. 
a certificate or license granted by a federal government agency; or  
(c) 
a training or credential that is recognized by an industry or trade association, a 
union, or other organization representing employers or workers within the 
profession or occupation to which the training or credential is related. 
 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 904-4 
Attorney General-Consumer Protection Section 
 
2 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 04/30/2026.
