---
id: "4_CCR_903-2"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "4 CCR 903-2"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=7290&fileName=4%20CCR%20903-2&type=pdf"
---

#### 4_CCR_903-2. 4 CCR 903-2

1 
DEPARTMENT OF LAW 
Collection Agency Board 
RULES OF THE ADMINISTRATOR, COLLECTION AGENCY BOARD FOR PRIVATE CHILD 
SUPPORT COLLECTORS 
4 CCR 903-2 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Rule 1 Scope of Rules 
These rules apply to private child support collectors as defined in section 5-17-102(9)(a), C.R.S. of the 
Colorado Child Support Collection Consumer Protection Act and supplement the rules adopted by the 
Administrator, Colorado Collection Agency Board, implementing the Colorado Fair Debt Collection 
Practices Act. 
Rule 2 Notice of Obligee’s Rights 
(a) 
The notice required by section 5-17-106(2), C.R.S. must be conspicuous, in bold type face at 
least as large as the type size used for other contract terms, included in or attached to the private 
child support enforcement contract prior to the space for the obligee’s signature agreeing to the 
contract terms, and read as follows: 
Child support collection services are offered at low or no cost through government child 
support collection services in every county in Colorado and in every state. A state agency 
may provide services that we cannot provide, such as driver’s license suspension and tax 
refund intercepts. 
We cannot require a government child support collection service to send payments to any 
person but you. 
We will not provide legal advice or act as your attorney. If we hire an attorney to assist in 
collections, you will not have to pay any additional fees. 
You have the right to receive a monthly accounting of payments collected, the fees we 
have charged, and the amount still due. 
You have certain rights to cancel this contract. See the contract for cancellation terms and 
the “Notice of Cancellation” provided with this contract. 
You have the right to sue us if we violate the law. You also have the right to file a 
complaint with the Administrator of the Collection Agency Board in the Colorado Attorney 
General’s Office. For more information about private child support collection or to file a 
complaint visit http://www.ago.state.co.us/CADC/CADCmain.cfm. 
You may have this contract reviewed by an attorney of your choice before you sign it. 
(b) 
If the Web site address listed in subsection (a) above becomes outdated, private child support 
collectors must print in their notice the current Web site address. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 903-2 
Collection Agency Board  
 
2 
(c) 
A private child support collector may substitute its name for the words “we”and “us”in the notice 
described above in subsection (a). 
Rule 3 Accounting 
(a) 
In addition to the information required by section 5-17-107(1), C.R.S., a private child support 
collector’s monthly accounting to the obligee must include: 
1. 
The specific dollar amount to be collected according to the contract; 
2. 
The date and amount of any child support collected by the private child support collector 
in the prior month, which amount collected shall be listed as both a gross amount and 
also itemized and described as principal, interest, and other fees as applicable and if 
allowed by law; 
3. 
The amount due to the obligee from the prior month’s collections, the amount actually 
paid to the obligee from the prior month’s collections, and the date of payment; 
4. 
The amount retained by the private child support collector pursuant to the contract with a 
description of how that amount was calculated, such as by providing the specific 
percentage amount or dollar amount contracted for; and, 
5. 
A running total since the inception of the contract of the amount collected by the private 
child support collector, the amount it has paid to the obligee, and the remaining balance. 
(b) 
Unless a shorter timeframe is required by applicable state or federal law, a private child support 
collector shall deliver to the obligee any payment due under the contract and the monthly 
accounting no later than by the tenth day of the month following receipt of the payment. The 
accounting shall be provided monthly, whether or not the private child support collector has 
collected any payments in the prior month. 
STATEMENT OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY, AND PURPOSE 
The basis, specific statutory authority, and purpose of these rules are to implement section 5-17-113, 
C.R.S. That section requires the Administrator of the Collection Agency Board (and of the Uniform 
Consumer Credit Code in the Colorado Attorney General’s Office) to adopt rules under the Colorado 
Child Support Collection Consumer Protection Act (Act) on notices to obligees and accounting. The Act 
was passed as House Bill 06-1066, took effect July 1, 2006, and is codified at section 5-17-101 et seq., in 
the Colorado Revised Statutes. The Act applies to private child support collectors. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History
