---
id: "4_CCR_723-11"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "4 CCR 723-11"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12557&fileName=4%20CCR%20723-11&type=pdf"
---

#### 4_CCR_723-11. 4 CCR 723-11

1 
Department of Regulatory Agencies 
Public Utilities Commission 
RULES REGULATING PIPELINE OPERATORS AND GAS PIPELINE SAFETY 
4 CCR 723-11 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
BASIS, PURPOSE, AND STATUTORY AUTHORITY 
The purpose of these rules is to describe the requirements for the safe operation of 
jurisdictional gas pipeline facilities, including construction, operations, maintenance, and 
operator reporting. These rules outline how the Commission will conduct pipeline safety 
program activities and complete the Commission’s Program Certification Obligations. 
The statutory authority for the promulgation of these rules can be found at §§ 40-1-103, 
40-2-108, 40-2-115, 40-3-110, 40-4-109, 40-6-108, and 40-7-117, C.R.S. 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
11000. 
Scope and Applicability. 
(a) 
Absent a specific statute, rules or Commission order that provides otherwise, all 
rules in this Part 11 (the 11000 series) shall apply to all public utilities and all 
municipal or quasi-municipal corporations transporting natural gas or providing 
natural gas service, all operators of master meter systems, and all operators or 
pipelines transporting gas in intrastate commerce, as defined in 49 C.F.R. § 
191.3. 
(b) 
The Public Utilities Commission conducts its Pipeline Safety Program (PSP) 
activities under §§ 40-1-103, 40-2-115, and 40-7-117, C.R.S. These provide the 
state statutory authority permitting the Commission to enter into cooperative 
agreements with federal agencies and to adopt and create rules to administer 
and to enforce the Natural Gas Pipeline Act found at 49 U.S.C. §§ 60101, et. 
seq. Collectively, the above referenced federal code and state statutes comprise 
the Commission’s Program Certification Obligations. 
(c) 
These gas pipeline safety rules prescribe the Commissions’ requirements for: 
(I) 
the safe construction, operation, maintenance, and integrity management 
of: 
(A) 
all intrastate pipeline facilities engaged in the transportation of 
hazardous gases, including natural gas and vaporized liquefied 
petroleum (LP) gas; and 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
2 
(B) 
liquefied natural gas (LNG) facilities; and 
(II) 
reporting requirements for operators of all facilities and pipeline systems. 
(d) 
These rules apply to establish and govern: 
(I) 
regulations and standards for the safe transportation of hazardous gases 
by intrastate pipeline in Colorado; 
(II) 
administration of the pipeline safety regulations by the Commission; 
(III) 
reporting to the Commission by operators of specific information related to 
pipeline safety; and 
(IV) 
adoption of federal minimum safety standards for transportation of natural 
gas and other gas by pipeline including; 
(A) 
adoption of federal minimum safety standards for LNG facilities; 
and 
(B) 
adoption of federal drug and alcohol testing regulations and 
procedures. 
(e) 
Except as otherwise directed, processes provided in the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice and Procedure, 4 CCR 723-1, including the rules governing 
confidentiality, shall apply to all filings made pursuant to this Part 11. 
(f) 
Consistent with § 40-15-107(2)(a), C.R.S., all information, documents, and 
copies of documents provided in connection with an audit, including any Request 
for Information from the PSP Chief or PSP Staff, shall be treated as confidential 
and shall not be made public by the Commission or any other person without 
prior written consent of the person providing such information, documents, or 
copies; or pursuant to a court order issued pursuant to § 24-72-204(5), C.R.S. If 
any such information, document, or copy of a document becomes the basis for, 
or employed within, an enforcement action pursuant to rule 11500 et seq., rules 
1100-1103 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Procedure shall govern 
any claim of confidentiality in such proceeding. Any such information, document, 
or copy of a document that is not treated as, or deemed, confidential or highly 
confidential in any such proceeding thereafter shall not be treated by the 
Commission as confidential for any other purpose. 
(g) 
Nothing in these rules shall be construed to exempt pipeline operators from 
complying with § 9-1.5-105, C.R.S. 
11001. 
Definitions. 
The following definitions apply throughout this Part 11, except where a specific rule or 
statute provides otherwise or where the context otherwise indicates. In the event of a

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
3 
conflict between these definitions and a statutory definition, the statutory definition shall 
apply. 
(a) 
“Advanced leak detection technology” means commercially available equipment 
that, for screening surveys, can detect potential or confirmed leaks in a pipeline 
to use with other Part 192 regulated gas pipeline facilities or within a suite of 
mutually reinforcing technologies to offer comparable leak detection ability.  This 
can include a variety of commercially available methods to detect leaks including, 
but not limited to, optical, infrared, or laser-based devices, continuous monitoring 
via stationary gas detectors, pressure monitoring or other means; mobile 
surveys; or systemic use of any other commercially available advanced 
technology, based on the following: 
(I) 
technology using infrared or laser-based leak detection equipment; 
mobile, aerial, or satellite-based platforms; or fixed continuous monitoring 
systems must have a minimum flowrate detection threshold of 10 kg/hr 
with 90 percent or greater probability of detection; or 
(II) 
technology using handheld leak detection equipment or equipment 
mounted on ground vehicles must have a minimum sensitivity of 5 ppm. 
(b) 
“Business district” means: 
(I) 
areas where gas facilities are located, with or without other underground 
facilities, under continuous street and sidewalk paving that extends to the 
building walls on one or both sides of the street (this may include areas 
where the public regularly congregates or where the majority of the 
buildings on either side of the street are regularly utilized for industrial, 
commercial, financial, educational, religious, health, multi-family 
residential, or recreational purposes); or 
(II) 
any other area that, in the judgement of the operator, should be so 
designated. 
(c) 
“C.F.R.” means the Code of Federal Regulations. 
(d) 
“Confirmed discovery” means a discovery defined, as of the effective date of 
these rules, in 49 C.F.R. § 191.3. 
(e) 
“Continuing violation” or “time-dependent violation” means any violation of these 
rules for which a timeframe of non-compliance can be established through 
physical evidence and/or records that include, but are not limited to: operator 
annual reports; operator compliance, operations, and maintenance records; and 
Commission inspection, compliance and proceeding records. 
(f) 
“Delivered system pressure” means the system operating pressure measured at 
the outlet of the furthest downstream appurtenance maintained by the pipeline

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
4 
system operator, e.g., regulator, meter, valve, or the terminal connection of the 
service riser in low-pressure distribution systems. 
(g) 
“De minimis gas system” means a non-utility underground pipeline system used 
for transport and distribution of natural gas to less than ten customers within a 
definable private (i.e., non-municipal or public) area (e.g., a mobile home park or 
resort) and that does not cross a public right-of-way. 
(h) 
“Direct sales meter” means a meter that measures the transfer of gas to a direct 
sales customer purchasing gas for consumption. 
(i) 
“Direct sales pipeline” means a pipeline not under the jurisdiction of the Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission and that runs from an intrastate or interstate 
transmission pipeline, a production facility, or a gathering pipeline to a direct 
sales meter, a pressure regulator, or an emergency valve, whichever is the 
furthest downstream. 
(j) 
“Distribution system” means the piping and associated facilities used to deliver 
natural gas to customers and does not include the facilities that an operator owns 
that are classified as production, storage, gathering, or transmission facilities. 
(k) 
“Excavation damage” means any impact that results in the need to repair or 
replace an underground facility due to a weakening or the partial or complete 
destruction of a facility, including, the protective coating; plastic pipe tracer wire; 
lateral support; cathodic protection; or the housing for the line device or facility. 
(l) 
“Gas” means natural gas, flammable gas, and any gas that is toxic or corrosive 
gas, or petroleum gas. 
(m) 
“Gathering pipeline” means any pipeline determined through the use of 49 C.F.R. 
§ 192.8 to be jurisdictional. 
(n) 
“Geographic Information Systems (GIS)” means a computer-based system for 
capturing, storing, checking, displaying, and analyzing data related to positions 
on Earth’s surface. 
(o) 
“Hazardous facility” means a pipeline facility that, if allowed to go into operation 
or to remain in operation, would pose a severe or imminent risk to public safety. 
(p) 
“Inactive/Idle” means a pipeline or pipeline segment that has ceased normal 
operations and will not resume service for a period of not less than 180 days; has 
been isolated from all sources of hazardous liquid, natural gas, or other gas; and 
has been purged of combustibles and hazardous materials and maintains a 
blanket of inert, non-flammable gas at low pressure or has not been purged but 
the volume of gas is so small that there is no potential hazard, as defined in 49 
U.S.C. § 60143.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
5 
(q) 
“Incident” means an event defined as of the effective date of these rules, in 49 
C.F.R. § 191.3, for a pipeline facility covered by 49 C.F.R. Part 192 or an 
emergency, as defined in § 193.2007 for an LNG facility. 
(r) 
“Liquefied natural gas” (LNG) means natural or synthetic gas that has methane 
(CH4) as its major constituent and that has been converted to liquid form for 
purposes of storage or transport. 
(s) 
“Liquid petroleum gas (LPG) system” means the liquid petroleum (LP) tanks 
and/or the pipeline system used to transport and distribute LP fuel gas to ten or 
more customers within a definable private (i.e. non-municipal or public) area 
(e.g., a mobile home park or resort), or less than ten customers if the system 
crosses a public right-of-way. LPG systems may have multiple operators if the 
supplying tank(s) is/are operated and maintained distinctly from the pipeline 
system by a different owner. 
(t) 
“Low-pressure distribution system” means a gas distribution system in which the 
gas pressure in the main is substantially the same as the pressure provided to 
the customer, i.e., the low-pressure gas burning equipment of the customer may 
be safely and continually operated at the delivered system pressure. 
(u) 
“LPG Tank – CDLE OPS Inspected” means any LPG tank inspected by the 
Colorado Department of Labor and Employment, Division of Oil and Public 
Safety under the authority of the OPS rules. 
(v) 
“LNG facility” means a pipeline facility that is used for liquefying natural or 
synthetic gas and/or for transferring, storing, or vaporizing liquefied natural gas. 
(w) 
“Main” means a distribution line that serves, or is designed to serve, as a 
common source of supply for more than one service line. 
(x) 
“Major master meter operator (MMO)/LPG system” refers to any MMO or LPG 
pipeline system serving 100 or more customers. 
(y) 
“Mechanical excavation” means any operation in which earth is moved or 
removed by means of any tools, equipment, or explosives and includes auguring, 
backfilling, boring, ditching, drilling, grading, plowing-in, pulling-in, ripping, 
scraping, trenching, hydro-excavating, post/postholing, and tunneling. 
(z) 
“MMO gas system” means a non-utility pipeline system used for transport and 
distribution of natural gas to ten or more customers within a definable private 
(i.e., non-municipal or public) area (e.g., a mobile home park or resort), or less 
than ten customers if the system crosses a public right-of-way. 
(aa) 
“Minor MMO/LPG system” means any MMO or LPG pipeline system serving 
between 20 and 99 customers. 
(bb) 
“Municipality” means a city, town, or village in the state of Colorado.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
6 
(cc) 
“NRC” means the National Response Center of the United States Coast Guard. 
(dd) 
“NTSB” means the National Transportation Safety Board, an independent federal 
agency. 
(ee) 
“Natural Gas Pipeline Act” means the federal statute found at 49 U.S.C. §§ 
60101 et seq., as amended. 
(ff) 
“No immediate safety impact” refers to action or inaction by operator/operator 
contractors on jurisdiction pipeline facilities that resulted in no immediate or 
imminent hazard to either the public, operator/operator contractor personnel, or 
pipeline system integrity. 
(gg) 
“Operator” means a person who is engaged in the transportation of gas, or who 
has the right to bury underground pipeline, or who is both engaged in the 
transportation of gas and has the right to bury underground pipeline, and may 
include an owner, such as a pipeline corporation. 
(hh) 
“Operator contractor” means any person or entity empowered by an operator to 
perform any action covered by 49 C.F.R. Part 192 and these rules. 
(ii) 
“Operator endangerment” refers to action or inaction by operator/operator 
contractors on pipeline facilities that resulted in an immediate or imminent hazard 
to operator/operator contractor personnel. 
(jj) 
“OPS” means the Office of Pipeline Safety, a unit of the PHMSA. 
(kk) 
“Part 192” means 49 C.F.R. Part 192 – Transportation of natural and other gas 
by pipeline: Minimum Federal safety standards. 
(ll) 
“Person” means an individual, firm, joint venture, partnership, corporation, 
association, municipality, cooperative association, or joint stock association, and 
includes any trustee, receiver, assignee, or personal representative thereof. 
(mm) “Petroleum gas” means propane, propylene, butane, (normal butane or 
isobutanes), and butylene or mixtures composed predominately of these gases. 
(nn) 
“PHMSA” means the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, an 
agency of the United States Department of Transportation. 
(oo) 
“Pipeline” or “pipeline system” means all parts of those physical intrastate 
facilities through which gas moves in transportation, including, but not limited to, 
pipes, valves, and other appurtenances attached to pipes, compressor units, 
metering stations, regulator stations, delivery stations, holders, and fabricated 
assemblies that start downstream beyond the farthest most point of oil and gas 
production. Flowlines that are regulated by the ECMC and used for oil and gas 
production are not included in the definition.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
7 
(pp) 
“Pipeline excavation damage prevention program” means an operator’s written 
program and processes to prevent damage to a pipeline by excavation, as 
defined in 49 C.F.R. § 192.614. 
(qq) 
“Pipeline facility” means new and existing intrastate pipelines, rights-of-way, and 
any equipment, facility, or building used in the transportation of gas, or in the 
treatment of gas during transportation. 
(rr) 
“Pipeline integrity” means the ability of a pipeline system to operate as it was 
verifiably designed and constructed. 
(ss) 
“Pipeline safety program” (PSP) means the Commission’s pipeline safety 
program operated in accordance with the Commission’s 49 U.S.C. §§ 60105 (a) 
certification and 60106 (a) agreement. 
(tt) 
“Production facility” means flowline and associated equipment used at a wellsite 
in producing, extracting, recovering, lifting, stabilizing, initial separating, treating, 
initial dehydrating, disposing, and/or above ground storing, of liquid 
hydrocarbons, associated liquids, and associated natural hydrocarbon gases. A 
production facility may include flowlines up to a central delivery point directly 
associated with a specific producing field. To be a production facility under this 
rule, a flowline must be used in the process of extracting hydrocarbons and 
associated liquids from the ground or from facilities where hydrocarbons are 
produced or must be used for disposal or injection in reservoir maintenance or 
recovery operations. 
(uu) 
“PSP Chief” means the program manager of the PHMSA certified PSP of the 
Colorado Public Utilities Commission. 
(vv) 
“PSP Lead Engineer” means the senior technical staff member of the PHMSA 
certified PSP of the Colorado Public Utilities Commission. 
(ww) “PSP Staff” means a staff member of the PHMSA certified PSP of the Colorado 
Public Utilities Commission. 
(xx) 
“Program certification obligations and agreements” means the pipeline safety 
program obligations required under 49 U.S.C. § 60105 (a) and the pipeline safety 
agreements required under 49 U.S.C. § 60106 (b). 
(yy) 
“Public endangerment” means an action or inaction by an operator/operator 
contractor on pipeline facilities that results in: 
(I) 
interruption or delay of make safe actions designed to protect human life; 
(II) 
unintended gas release requiring emergency (versus precautionary) 
evacuation of the public;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
8 
(III) 
an unsafe ignition of intended gas release in an area accessible to the 
public; 
(IV) 
system over pressurization event/failure of system overpressure protection 
requiring emergency (versus precautionary) evacuation of the public; or 
(V) 
any other hazardous situation that results in an immediate or imminent 
hazard to the public. 
(zz) 
“Records” means information created, manipulated, communicated or stored in 
physical, digital, or electronic form. Records relate, but are not limited, to 
functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities of the 
utility. 
(aaa) “Roadway” means a main public artery, highway, or interstate highway. 
(bbb) “Related violation” for purposes of informing the Commission authority pursuant 
to § 40-7-117, C.R.S., means a violation of these rules that has been proven to 
be directly linked with a PUC rule violation or violations by time, place, activity, 
and/or personnel. 
(ccc) “Request for Information (RFI)” means any request from the PSP Chief or 
assignee to a jurisdictional operator for information associated with PSP 
inspection activities authorized by paragraph 11013(a). 
(ddd) “Single structure, above-ground MMO/LPG system” or “SSAG System” means 
any MMO or LPG system that is: 
(I) 
a low-pressure gas distribution system; 
(II) 
is comprised wholly of above-ground piping/appurtenances; and 
(III) 
is contained wholly within or on a single continuous structure such as an 
apartment building, hotel, mall, etc. 
(eee) “Small operator” means any gas distribution system operator that operates less 
than 1000 natural gas distribution services in the state of Colorado. 
(fff) 
“Threshold MMO/LPG system” means any MMO or LPG pipeline system serving 
less than 20 customers. 
(ggg) “Transportation of gas” means the gathering, transmission, or distribution, of gas 
by pipeline, or the storage of gas within the state of Colorado that is not subject 
to the jurisdiction of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission under the 
Natural Gas Act. 
(hhh) “UNCC/Colorado 811” means the Utility Notification Center of Colorado.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
9 
(iii) 
“U.S.C.” means the United States Code. 
11002. – 11007. 
[Reserved].

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
10 
11008. 
Incorporation by Reference. 
(a) 
The Commission incorporates by reference the federal standards for reporting 
safety-related conditions associated with the transportation of natural gas and 
other gas by pipeline published in 49 C.F.R. § 191.23 (reporting safety-related 
conditions), effective May 16, 2022 and § 191.25 (filing safety-related condition 
reports), effective July 1, 2020. This incorporation by reference does not include 
later amendments to, or editions of, 49 C.F.R. Part 191. 
(b) 
The Commission incorporates by reference the federal safety standards for the 
transportation of natural gas and other gas by pipeline published in 49 C.F.R. 
Part 192, effective January 15, 2025. This incorporation by reference does not 
include later amendments to, or editions of, 49 C.F.R. Part 192. 
(c) 
The Commission incorporates by reference the federal safety standards for 
liquefied natural gas facilities that are published in 49 C.F.R. Part 193 effective 
August 6, 2015. This incorporation by reference does not include later 
amendments to, or editions of, 49 C.F.R. Part 193. 
(d) 
The Commission incorporates by reference the drug and alcohol testing 
regulations and procedures of PHMSA published in 49 C.F.R. Part 40, effective 
June 21, 2024 and Part 199 effective, April 23, 2019. This incorporation by 
reference does not include later amendments to, or editions of, 49 C.F.R. Parts 
40 and 199. 
(e) 
The Commission incorporates by reference the NPMS Operator Standards 
Manual, updated January 2025. 
(f) 
Any material incorporated by reference in this Part 11 may be examined at the 
offices of the Commission, 1560 Broadway, Suite 250, Denver, Colorado 80202, 
during normal business hours, Monday through Friday, except for state holidays. 
Incorporated standards shall be available electronically and provided in certified 
copies, at cost, upon request. Restrictions on the provision of physical copies 
due to copyright protections may apply. The Director or the Director’s designee 
will provide information regarding how the incorporated standards may be 
examined at any state public depository library. The standards and regulations 
are also available from the agency, organization or association originally issuing 
the code, standard, guideline or rule as follows: Code of Federal Regulations: 
www.govinfo.gov/help/cfr. 
11009. 
More Stringent Standards. 
In the event of a more stringent rule of the Commission regarding any administrative, 
enforcement, operations, maintenance, or construction task, or reporting requirement of 
49 C.F.R. Parts 40, 192, 193, and/or 199 and Commission Pipeline Safety Rules, the 
Commission’s rules shall apply.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
11 
11010. 
Interpretation. 
(a) 
Consistent with rule 1304 of the Commission Rules of Practice and Procedure, 4 
CCR 723-1, an operator may file a petition seeking a declaratory order that 
resolves a controversy or uncertainty regarding any statute, Commission rule, 
regulation, and/or Commission decision. The requestor shall include with each 
request, at least the following: 
(I) 
the statutory provision(s), Commission rule(s), regulation(s). and/or 
decision(s) at issue; 
(II) 
the specific instance or illustration of the application of the statutory 
provision(s), Commission rule(s), regulation(s), and/or decision(s) that 
causes the controversy or uncertainty; and 
(III) 
the complete petitioner’s contact information. 
(IV) 
The petition may also include a request for expedited treatment if an 
interpretation is needed quickly and good cause exists. 
(b) 
Upon receipt of the petition for a declaratory order, the Commission will consider 
whether to accept the filing consistent with rule 1304 of the Commission’s Rules 
of Practice and Procedure, 4 CCR 723-1. 
(c) 
If the petition requires interpretation of a federal regulation incorporated by 
reference into these rules and the Commission accepts the petition, PHMSA 
must review the Commission’s interpretation of the federal regulation. The 
Commission’s decision interpreting the federal regulation, and the reasons 
therefore, shall issue as an interim decision that shall be provided to the Office of 
Pipeline Safety for final review. Any response by the Office of Pipeline Safety 
shall be incorporated into the Commission’s final decision. 
(d) 
Nothing in these rules prohibits an operator from contacting the PSP Chief or 
PSP Lead Engineer for informal assistance. Consistent with paragraph 1007(d) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Procedure, 4 CCR 723-1, opinions 
expressed by the PSP Chief or PSP Lead Engineer do not represent the official 
views of the Commission, but are designed to aid the public and to facilitate the 
accomplishment of the Commission’s functions. Nothing communicated by the 
PSP Chief or PSP Lead Engineer constitutes legal advice. 
11011. 
Waiver – Non-emergency. 
(a) 
An owner or operator may request a waiver or a variance from any of these rules 
in accordance with § 40-2-115, C.R.S., 49 U.S.C. § 60118(d), and paragraph 
1003(b) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Procedure 4 CCR 723-1. 
Requests for waiver from the standards in 49 C.F.R. Part 192 that are 
incorporated by reference into these rules that are made pursuant to 49 C.F.R.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
12 
Part 192.1013 are subject to the requirements of both paragraphs (b) and (c) 
below. 
(b) 
The petition shall include: 
(I) 
information required by rule 1003 paragraph (c); 
(II) 
the specific instance or illustration of the rule’s application requiring 
modification/waiver; 
(III) 
proposed alternatives to compliance with the regulation (e.g., additional 
inspections and tests, shortened reassessment intervals, etc.); 
(IV) 
an explanation of the necessity with supporting evidence and 
documentation, including: 
(A) 
the mileage or footage of pipeline to be covered and the counties in 
which it is located; 
(B) 
a description of the pipeline(s) affected by the permit (e.g., year 
installed, material, thickness, diameter, operating pressure, etc.); 
(C) 
all pipeline other facilities such as pump and compressor stations 
that the permit will affect; and 
(D) 
other pertinent operational history/data (e.g., leak history, corrosion 
history, etc.); 
(V) 
a certification that the modification/waiver is consistent with pipeline 
safety; and 
(VI) 
the complete operator contact information. 
(c) 
An owner or operator may file a petition for waiver under 49 C.F.R. Part 
192.1013 to deviate from the standards in 49 C.F.R. Part 192 that are 
incorporated into these rules to alter the frequency of periodic inspections and 
tests on the basis of an engineering analysis and risk assessment. 
(I) 
A request for waiver for an alternative frequency of inspections and tests 
required under Part 192 will be granted if the request is found to be not 
inconsistent with pipeline safety. For intrastate facilities, an operator must 
file its proposal as a petition for waiver through the Commission’s E-Filings 
System at least 120 days before the requested effective date. 
(II) 
An owner or operator may implement an approved reduction in the 
frequency of a periodic inspection or test only where the operator has 
developed and implemented an integrity management program that

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
13 
provides an equal or improved overall level of safety despite the request 
for reduced frequency of periodic inspections. 
(III) 
In addition to the information in subparagraph (b) above, each petition filed 
under this subsection must include the following information: 
(A) 
name of the owner or operator; 
(B) 
duration of the deviation proposal; 
(C) 
specific regulations from which the owner or operator seeks relief; 
(D) 
a description of the pipeline for which the deviation is sought, 
including: 
(i) 
the mileage or footage of the pipeline to be covered by the 
request and the counties in which it is located; 
(ii) 
the year the pipeline was installed; 
(iii) 
all pipeline facilities that the request will affect; and 
(iv) 
the material, thickness, diameter, and operating pressure of 
the pipeline; 
(E) 
alternatives proposed for compliance with the regulation (e.g., 
additional inspections and tests, shortened reassessment 
intervals); and 
(F) 
a certification that operation of the owner or operator’s pipeline 
under the requested alternative frequency of periodic inspections 
and tests would not be inconsistent with pipeline safety and will 
provide and equal or greater overall level of safety. 
(IV) 
After receiving notice of the petition, the PSP Chief will confer with the 
Office of Pipeline Safety on the waiver requested by the owner or 
operator. The PSP Chief will file a notice in the petition proceeding 
indicating whether the request should be accepted by the Commission 
and if so, whether additional conditions or limitations that are relevant and 
in the public interest should be adopted. The Commission shall consider 
the petition for waiver and the notice filing of the PSP Chief in rendering a 
decision. 
(d) 
PHMSA Review: If the Commission grants a petition filed by an owner/operator 
for a waiver of a federal rule that is incorporated into the Commission rules, 
PHMSA must review the Commission’s decision, except for petitions for waiver 
covered by paragraph (c) above. The Commission’s decision granting a waiver 
request that requires PHMSA review, and the reasons therefore, shall issue as

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
14 
an interim decision that shall be provided to the Office of Pipeline Safety for final 
review pursuant to 49 U.S.C. § 60118(d). Any response by the Office of Pipeline 
Safety shall be incorporated into the Commission’s final decision. 
11012. 
Waiver – Emergency. 
(a) 
An operator may file a petition to request an emergency waiver or variance in 
situations that require expedited review that is otherwise inconsistent with § 40-2-
115, C.R.S., 49 U.S.C. § 60118(d), and the Commission’s Rules of Practice and 
Procedure. 
(b) 
An emergency waiver request will be granted if it is in the public interest, is 
consistent with pipeline safety, and is necessary to address an actual or 
impending emergency involving pipeline transportation, including emergencies 
caused by natural or manmade disasters. 
(c) 
An emergency waiver is an order by which the Commission may temporarily 
modify compliance with state pipeline regulations for affected pipeline owners or 
operators and the Commission may waive compliance with a safety regulation if, 
after receiving notice on an incorporated federal rule, PHMSA concurs in the 
action. 
(d) 
The Commission will determine on a case-by-case basis what duration of waiver 
or variance is necessary to address the emergency. However, as required by 
statute, no emergency waiver may be issued for a period exceeding 60 days. 
Each emergency waiver will automatically expire on the date stated in the 
Commission’s decision. 
(e) 
An operator may request an emergency Special Permit modifying or waiving of 
any of these rules by submitting a written request as follows. 
(I) 
If the request concerns a Colorado-specific rule then no subsequent 
review by PHMSA is required. The requestor shall file a petition for the 
emergency waiver with the Commission using one of the following 
methods: 
(A) 
the Commission’s E-Filings System; or 
(B) 
express mail/overnight courier to Doug Dean, Director of the 
Colorado Public Utilities Commission, 1560 Broadway, Suite 250, 
Denver, CO 80202. 
(II) 
If the request concerns a federal rule incorporated by reference into these 
rules, a review by PHMSA is required. The requestor shall submit a 
petition for the emergency waiver directly to the Commission using one of 
the methods described above and to PHMSA using any of the following 
methods:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
15 
(A) 
direct fax to the PHMSA Crisis Management Center at: 202-366-
3768; 
(B) 
direct e-mail to PHMSA at: phmsa.pipeline-
emergencyspecpermit@dot.gov; or 
(C) 
express mail/overnight courier to the Associate Administrator for 
Pipeline Safety, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety 
Administration, 1200 New Jersey Avenue, SE East Building, 
Washington, DC 20590. 
(f) 
The requestor shall include with each emergency waiver petition: 
(I) 
the information required by rule 1003 paragraph (c); 
(II) 
an explanation of the actual or impending emergency; 
(III) 
the specific instance or illustration of the rule’s application requiring 
modification/waiver; 
(IV) 
proposed alternatives to compliance with the regulation (e.g., additional 
inspections and tests, shortened reassessment intervals, etc.); 
(V) 
to the extent possible, as much of the information as is required in 
paragraph 11011(c); and 
(VI) 
measures to be taken after the emergency situation or permit expires, 
whichever comes first, that will confirm/assure long-term operational 
reliability of the facility impacted by the Special Permit. 
(g) 
The emergency waiver is effective upon final order by the Commission or the 
PHMSA Administrator for Pipeline Safety, as appropriate to the review. 
11013. 
Inspections and Investigations. 
(a) 
Upon presenting appropriate credentials, a representative of the PSP may enter 
upon, inspect, and examine, at reasonable times, and in a reasonable manner, 
the records, facilities, and properties of pipeline operators to the extent such 
records, facilities, and properties are relevant to determining the compliance of 
such operators with the requirements of these rules or Commission orders. 
(b) 
Verifiable credentials for personnel engaged in pipeline construction, inspection, 
and repair activities are required to be provided on site at the time that the 
activities are taking place. Operator qualifications for the same personnel may be 
provided at a different time and location by request if they cannot be provided on 
site, such as an office phone number and point of contact.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
16 
(c) 
Prior to an inspection or investigation, the PSP Chief or assignee shall notify an 
operator. Except in emergency situations, the operator shall have an opportunity 
to respond to the notification prior to the initiation of an inspection or investigation 
relating to any jurisdictional pipeline facility, including the operator’s right of way 
or easement, new and existing piping, valves, and other above ground 
appurtenances attached to pipes, or, upon request of PHMSA, an interstate 
pipeline to determine compliance with 49 U.S.C. §§ 60101 et. seq., with these 
rules, and with applicable Commission orders. 
(d) 
Inspections and investigations are necessitated by the existence of one or more 
of the following circumstances: 
(I) 
routine scheduling by the PSP Chief, PSP Lead Engineer, or other 
designee; 
(II) 
pipeline-related incidents and events reported to the PSP in accordance 
with rules 11101 through 11103; 
(III) 
a complaint received from a member of the public and verified by the PSP 
Chief or Lead Engineer as related to a jurisdictional pipeline facility and 
involving a discrete and auditable matter potentially impacting public 
safety; 
(IV) 
information obtained from a previous inspection; or 
(V) 
when deemed appropriate by the Commission or PHMSA under their 
respective authorities. 
(e) 
After an inspection, the PSP Chief will pursue one of the following: 
(I) 
an inspection close-out indicating that no further action will be taken on 
final inspection findings; 
(II) 
a RFI indicating that the inspection is ongoing without final inspection 
findings, to be answered within the timeframe requested in the RFI, 
typically 30 calendar days from the operator’s receipt of the RFI unless 
otherwise indicated and agreed to by the PSP Chief and the operator; or 
(III) 
a compliance action taken on final inspection findings as described in 
rules 11502 and 11503. 
(f) 
If a representative of the PSP investigates an incident involving a pipeline facility, 
the PSP Chief of the Commission may request that the operator make available 
to the representative all records and information that directly or indirectly pertain 
to the incident, including integrity management plans and test results, and that 
the operator afford all reasonable assistance in the investigation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
17 
(g) 
To the extent necessary to carry out the responsibilities of the Program 
Certification Obligations, the PSP may require testing of portions of pipeline 
facilities that have been involved in, or affected by, an incident. However, before 
exercising this authority and accepting responsibility, the PSP shall make every 
effort to negotiate a mutually acceptable plan with the owner of those facilities 
and, where appropriate, other local and state fire and safety authorities, PHMSA, 
the NTSB, and any known third parties for performing the testing. 
11014. 
Advisory Bulletins. 
PSP advisories or PHMSA advisory bulletins are periodically drafted and communicated 
to affected operators as a result of circumstances identified by the PSP, PHMSA, 
NTSB, or industry with the potential to become pipeline system safety risks. Operators 
should review these bulletins for relevancy to their individual pipeline system operations. 
11015. – 11099. 
[Reserved]. 
INFORMATION REQUIRED OF OPERATORS 
11100. 
Submission of Reports and Notices - General. 
(a) 
For all annual reporting, the PSP will access the PHMSA Pipeline Data Mart 
beginning on March 16 of every year to confirm operator submittals. Failure to 
meet annual report submittal deadlines will result in issuance in a warning notice; 
failure to meet submittal deadlines in two successive calendar years will result in 
the issuance of a NPV against the operator. 
(b) 
For all specialized reporting, failure to meet submittal deadlines and 
requirements will result in issuance in a warning notice or a NPV against the 
operator. 
(c) 
Geographic Information System (GIS) data listed in subparagraph (II) below shall 
be submitted to the PSP.  GIS data shall be submitted in the North American 
Datum of 1983 (NAD 83).  Data may be submitted in zipped geodatabase (GDB), 
zipped shapefile (SHP), or google keyhole markup language (KML), with 
preference for GDB and SHP. 
(I) 
Data shall be submitted electronically, including through a form available 
on the Commission’s website. Commission staff may update the form 
periodically. Whether annual filings are provided through the Commission-
provided form or separately, operators shall ensure that all information 
required is included in any submitted report filings. 
(II) 
Data specifications. The following data attributes for transmission, 
distribution, and gathering pipelines shall be submitted to the extent 
available: 
(A) 
spatial location of the pipeline;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
18 
(B) 
operator name; 
(C) 
fluid type; 
(D) 
designation of pipeline as transmission, distribution, or gathering; 
(E) 
for transmission pipelines only, the additional data provided to the 
National Pipeline Mapping System (NPMS) by the operator; 
(F) 
abandoned as defined in 49 CFR 192.3 and inactive pipelines. 
Include abandonment and inactive dates as applicable, as defined 
in 49 CFR 192.727; 
(G) 
the maximum allowable operating pressure; 
(H) 
the testing pressure; 
(I) 
the pipe description (i.e., nominal diameter, coating, standard 
dimension ratio, wall thickness, and material); 
(J) 
description of corrosion protection (i.e., Galvanic, 
Rectified/Impressed Current, or NA); 
(K) 
identify as HCA/MCA on each segment, as applicable; and 
(L) 
identify class location for each segment, as applicable. 
(III) 
Disclosure of GIS data. 
(A) 
The PSP Chief will make the GIS data in subparagraphs (II)(A)-(F) 
above available through a publicly accessible online map viewer. 
Online map viewer data only will be available at scales greater than 
or equal to 1:6,000. Any person may view spatial data at scales 
less than 1:6,000 for an individual parcel at the Commission’s 
office, with the exception of map viewer data filed confidentially. 
Any data provided confidentially must be filed with a publicly 
accessible version at a scale greater than or equal to 1:24000. 
(B) 
Upon request from a local governmental designee(s), and subject 
to executing a confidentiality agreement and the provisions of the 
Colorado Open Records Act and applicable federal law, the 
Commission will allow the local government to view in the 
Commission’s offices the GIS data (including the data described in 
subparagraphs (II)(G)-(L) above) for transmission, distribution or 
gathering pipeline systems within the Commission’s jurisdiction. 
The local government may only reproduce or publish data that the 
Commission makes publicly available through its website. A local 
government may share more specific data in-person than that

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
19 
which the Commission makes publicly-available, but the information 
must be treated as confidential and may not be reproduced or 
published. 
(C) 
Except as provided in subparagraphs (III)(A) and (B) above, the 
Commission will keep all such GIS data confidential to the extent 
allowed by the Colorado Open Records Act. 
(D) 
This data will not be used in lieu of Colorado 811 locates and is 
subject to civil penalties set forth in and fines assessed pursuant to 
§§ 9-1.5-104.4 or 9-1.5-104.5, C.R.S. 
(d) 
For all electronic reporting to PHMSA, if this reporting method imposes an undue 
burden and hardship, an operator may submit a written request for an alternative 
reporting method to: Information Resources Manager, Office of Pipeline Safety, 
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, PHP-20, 1200 New 
Jersey Avenue, SE, Washington, DC 20590. The request must describe the 
undue burden and hardship. PHMSA will review the request and may authorize, 
in writing, an alternative reporting method. An authorization will state the period 
for which it is valid, which may be indefinite. An operator must contact PHMSA at 
202-366-8075; electronically to informationresourcesmanager@dot.gov; or make 
arrangements for submitting a report that is due after a request for alternative 
reporting is submitted but before an authorization or denial is received. 
(e) 
Annual leak report. 
(I) 
Beginning March 31, 2025 and annually on March 31 of each year 
thereafter, each operator must submit a report to the Commission that 
includes: 
(A) 
the total number of known pending leaks, excluding those repaired 
in pipelines owned by the operator as of January 1st of the year the 
report is submitted; 
(B) 
the total number of hazardous leaks, as defined by DOT F7100.1-1 
reporting instructions, eliminated or repaired during the previous 
one-year period ending December 31st; 
(C) 
the total number of nonhazardous leaks eliminated or repaired 
during the previous one-year period ending December 31st; 
(D) 
the total number of leaks scheduled for repair in the next one-year 
period beginning January 1st of the year the report is submitted; 
(E) 
the approximate date and location of each identified leak from the 
gas pipeline system detected by the operator through leak survey 
and pending as of January 1 of the reporting calendar year;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
20 
(F) 
for repaired leaks, the material type of the pipe and facility that was 
leaking; 
(G) 
the leak survey method(s) used to detect each pending leak; 
(H) 
the approximate date and location of each leak caused by third-
party excavation; 
(I) 
the volume of each leak, measured in millions of cubic feet, except 
that where an exact volume of gas leaked cannot be identified, an 
operator may provide its best approximation, if available, and 
narrative explanation of its calculations and regarding its 
estimation; 
(J) 
whether the identified cause of each repaired leak was from: 
corrosion failure; natural force damage; excavation damage; other 
outside force damage; pipe, weld, or joint failure; equipment failure; 
incorrect operations; or other causes; and 
(K) 
a list of the deployed leak detection technology(ies) for each type of 
leak survey conducted in the prior calendar year and the leak 
indicator(s) that the technology(ies) provide(s). Subsequent annual 
reports need only to update the information from previous calendar 
year’s report when a different equipment is utilized. This 
requirement will go into effect one year after these rules are 
effective. 
(II) 
Natural gas leaks include all confirmed discoveries of unintentional leak 
events, including leaks from: corrosion failure; natural force damage; 
excavation damage; other outside force damage; pipe, weld, or joint 
failure; equipment failure; incorrect operation; or other causes. 
(III) 
The Commission may use the data reported by operators under this 
section, as well as other data reported by operators to the Commission 
and to the Air Pollution Control Division and spill and incident data 
reported by operators to Carbon and Energy Management Commission to 
estimate the volume of leaked gas and associated greenhouse gas 
emissions from operational practices in the state. The Commission may 
request additional information. 
(IV) 
The data provided in this section, including the total number of leaks 
scheduled for repair under subsection 11100(e)(I)(D), does not prevent 
the operator from prioritizing its repair schedule based on new information 
and newly identified leaks. 
(f) 
Disclosure of leak detection data.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
21 
(I) 
By June 1, 2025 and annually on June 1 of each year thereafter, the 
Commission will provide on its public internet website aggregate data, as 
submitted by operators under this section, concerning the volume and 
causes of gas leaks. 
(II) 
By June 1, 2025 and annually on June 1 of each year thereafter, the 
Commission will transmit to the Air Pollution Control Division and Energy 
and Carbon Management Commission information on gas leakage in the 
state, as submitted by operators under this rule. 
11101. 
Submission of Reports and Notices. 
(a) 
Operators must submit all required reports, as applicable, within the specified 
deadline(s) for the following occasions requiring specialized reporting or notice. 
Any reporting shall be in addition to, or supplemental to, reporting required under 
federal law and shall not be duplicative. 
(b) 
Incident reporting. 
(I) 
Written reports of all incidents required to be reported under these rules 
must be submitted as soon as practicable but not more than 30 days after 
detection of the incident. 
(II) 
Each operator submitting information to PHMSA via its electronic portal 
shall also file such information with the Commission in accordance with 
subparagraph 1204(a)(III) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and 
Procedure in the repository proceeding opened for such reporting 
purpose. 
(III) 
Each operator that submits information to PHMSA via alternative methods 
shall file copies of this information with the Commission. 
(IV) 
Each operator of a distribution pipeline system, excepting MMO/LPG 
systems, shall submit the Incident Report (PHMSA F 7100.1) to PHMSA 
using its electronic portal at https://portal.phmsa.dot.gov. 
(V) 
Each operator of an MMO/LPG system shall submit a Small Operator 
Incident Report (PSP SOIR) to the Commission through its E-Filings 
System in the repository proceeding opened for such reporting purposes. 
(VI) 
Each operator of a transmission or gathering system (Types A, B, and C), 
shall submit the Incident Report (PHMSA F 7100.2) to PHMSA using its 
electronic portal at https://portal.phmsa.dot.gov. 
(VII) 
Each operator of a LNG facility shall submit the Incident Report (PHMSA F 
7100.3) to PHMSA using its electronic portal at 
https://portal.phmsa.dot.gov.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
22 
(VIII) When additional relevant information is obtained after the report is 
submitted under paragraph (a) or (b) of this rule, the operator shall make 
supplementary reports as deemed necessary with a clear reference by 
date and subject to the original report. The operator shall notify the PSP 
Chief of all supplementary reporting. 
(c) 
Safety-related condition (SRC) reporting. 
(I) 
Written reports of SRC’s must be submitted in accordance with the 
timelines established in 49 C.F.R. Part 191, § 191.25(a). 
(II) 
Written reports of SRC’s must be submitted with information as required in 
49 C.F.R. Part 191, § 191.25(b). 
(III) 
Any operator filing a SRC report as required by 49 C.F.R. Part 191, § 
191.23 (Reporting SRC’s) and §191.25 (Filing SRC reports) with PHMSA 
shall also concurrently inform the PSP Chief through e-mail at 
dora_copuc_pipeline_safety@state.co.us and submit the SRC report to 
Commission through its E-Filings System in accordance with 
subparagraph 1204(a)(III) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and 
Procedure in the repository proceeding opened for such reporting 
purposes no later than close of the next business day. 
(d) 
Pipeline damage and locate information reporting. Each operator subject to the 
requirements of these rules and Colorado Revised Statutes Title 9, Article 1.5 
(the “Colorado One-call Law”) shall submit the PSP Damage and Locate Report 
(PSP DLR) to the Commission through its E-Filings System in accordance with 
paragraph 1204(a) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Procedure in the 
repository proceeding opened for such reporting purposes. 
11102. 
Verbal Reporting of Pipeline Incidents and Events. 
(a) 
Colorado pipeline incidents. 
(I) 
All pipeline and LNG facility operators must provide expedited reporting of 
a pipeline incident as soon as possible after confirmed discovery; not to 
exceed two hours after confirmed discovery. 
(II) 
If the expedited reporting time for a pipeline incident exceeds two hours 
after confirmed discovery, the operator shall provide a written explanation 
for the time exceedance to the PSP Chief within ten business days after 
the incident. 
(III) 
All operators must report a pipeline incident to: 
(A) 
the NRC via telephone at 800-424-8802; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
23 
(B) 
after an NRC control number is issued for the incident, to the PSP 
Staff via telephone at 303-894-2854. 
(IV) 
A telephonic report made pursuant to this rule must include the following 
information: 
(A) 
the NRC control number; 
(B) 
the name and telephone number of the operator and the contact for 
more information on the incident; 
(C) 
the location of the incident or event; 
(D) 
the date and time of the incident or event; 
(E) 
the number of fatalities and personal injuries, if any; and 
(F) 
all other significant facts that are known by the person making the 
report that are relevant to the cause of the incident and the extent 
of the damage. 
(b) 
Colorado pipeline events. 
(I) 
All pipeline operators, including operators of LNG facilities/systems and 
MMO/LPG systems, must provide expedited reporting of pipeline events 
described below as soon as possible after discovery; not to exceed two 
hours after confirmed discovery. 
(II) 
If the expedited reporting time for a pipeline event exceeds two hours after 
confirmed discovery, the operator shall provide a written explanation for 
the exceedance to the PSP Chief within ten business days after the event. 
(III) 
All pipeline operators must report the following pipeline events to the PSP 
Staff via telephone at 303-894-2854: 
(A) 
an unplanned/emergency event that occurs on the pipeline system 
that results in the evacuation of 50 or more people from a normally 
occupied building or property; 
(B) 
an unplanned/emergency event that occurs on the pipeline system 
that results in the closure of all lanes in either direction of a 
roadway or railroad; 
(C) 
an unplanned/emergency event that occurs on the pipeline system 
that results in the evacuation of four or more residential structures; 
(D) 
an unplanned/emergency event that occurs on the pipeline system 
that results in a service outage of 100 or more customers;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
24 
(E) 
an event that requires active soil vapor extraction for a period 
exceeding 48 hours as measured from the time the extraction 
device is turned on at the site until the operator determines soil 
vapor extraction is no longer necessary; 
(F) 
a MAOP-exceedance event that requires the operator, pursuant to 
its procedures, to implement follow-up actions such as a leak 
survey; or 
(G) 
an event that, in the opinion of the operator, requires courtesy 
notification to the PSP. 
11103. 
Submission of Annual Reports. 
(a) 
On or before March 15 of each year: 
(I) 
each operator of a distribution pipeline system, excepting MMO/LPG 
systems, shall submit the annual report (PHMSA F 7100.1-1) to PHMSA 
using its electronic portal at https://portal.phmsa.dot.gov; 
(II) 
each operator of an MMO/LPG system shall submit the MMO/LPG annual 
report to the Commission through its E-Filings System in the repository 
proceeding opened for annual reports; 
(III) 
each operator of a transmission or gathering system (i.e., Types A, B, C, 
and R), shall submit the annual report (PHMSA F 7100.2-1 or PHMSA 
F7100.2-3, as appropriate) to PHMSA using its electronic portal at 
https://portal.phmsa.dot.gov; and 
(IV) 
each operator of a LNG facility shall submit the annual report (PHMSA F 
7100.3-1) to PHMSA using its electronic portal at 
https://portal.phmsa.dot.gov. 
(b) 
On or before March 31, 2025, and March 31 of each year thereafter: 
(I) 
each operator shall submit to the Commission GIS data according to 
paragraph 11100(c); and 
(II) 
each operator shall submit to the Commission a list of leak detection 
technology(ies), including both proven, conventional, and advanced, being 
used according to paragraph 11100(e). 
(c) 
Each operator of an MMO/LPG system shall submit the Small Operator Annual 
Report (PSP SOAR) to the Commission through its E-Filings System in the 
repository proceeding opened for annual reports.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
25 
(d) 
Each operator of a transmission or Type A or Type B gathering system (i.e., 
excepting rural gathering), shall submit the Annual Report (PHMSA F 7100.2-1) 
to PHMSA using its electronic portal at https://portal.phmsa.dot.gov. 
(e) 
Each operator of a LNG facility shall submit the Annual Report (PHMSA F 
7100.3-1) to PHMSA using its electronic portal at https://portal.phmsa.dot.gov. 
11104. – 11199. 
[Reserved].

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
26 
SAFETY STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS GAS PIPELINE SYSTEMS 
11200. 
Standards – General. 
An operator shall comply with these rules and the minimum safety standards for the 
transportation of natural gas and other gas by pipeline that are incorporated by 
reference in rule 11008, as applicable. 
11201. 
Pipeline Excavation Damage Prevention. 
(a) 
All operators must be members of the UNCC/Colorado 811 if any part of the 
pipeline system is located in any public or railroad right-of-way. 
(b) 
All operators, excluding operators of MMO/LPG pipeline systems, must report 
underground facility damages to the UNCC/Colorado 811 in accordance with § 9-
1.5-103(7), C.R.S. 
(c) 
Operators of MMO/LPG must install and maintain pipeline markers, labeled 
according to § 192.707(d), at each crossing of a public road or railroad right-of-
way. 
(d) 
All operators, excluding operators of MMO/LPG, must have written guidelines 
regarding when and how civil penalties are pursued under § 9-1.5-104.5, C.R.S. 
against persons damaging their pipeline facilities, and when and how penalty 
alternatives are implemented. At a minimum, the collection of data on and 
subsequent analysis of the causes of excavation damages to comply with 49 
C.F.R. § 192.614 (a). These guidelines must provide for: 
(I) 
recording information about pipeline damages that includes identification 
of the responsible party and the probable cause of each excavation 
damage in the following categories: 
(A) 
inadequate excavation practices; 
(B) 
no locate requested; 
(C) 
inaccurate/missing locate – Operator located; and 
(D) 
inaccurate/missing located – Contractor located. 
(II) 
Analysis of the information in (a) above that allows for the identification of 
acute risk parties that have caused multiple pipeline damages in the 
preceding 18 months; and 
(III) 
analysis of the information in (a) above that allows for the identification of 
chronic risk parties that have caused multiple pipeline damages over (a) 
time period(s) greater than 18 months.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
27 
(e) 
Each operator must provide documentation of the deactivation and abandonment 
of pipelines to the PSP consistent with rule 11100. 
(f) 
The PSP will pursue compliance action against an operator under § 
192.614(c)(5) whose excavation damages due to inaccurate or missing locates: 
(I) 
were found through investigation to be contributory to a pipeline incident; 
(II) 
were found through investigation to be contributory to a pipeline event 
that, in the opinion of the PSP, represented a major threat to public safety; 
or 
(III) 
were found to represent an excessive risk to the operator’s pipeline by the 
analyses required by subparagraphs 11201(d)(II) and (III). 
11202. 
Direct Sales Pipelines. 
Unless otherwise specified in this rule, direct sales pipelines are classified as intrastate 
transmission pipelines and subject to these rules and all applicable 49 C.F.R. Part 192 
rules, as incorporated. 
11203. 
Small Operator Systems. 
(a) 
General requirements. 
(I) 
Unless otherwise specified in this rule, a small operator system is subject 
to these rules and all applicable 49 C.F.R. Part 192 rules, as incorporated. 
(II) 
Unless otherwise specified in this rule, any operator of a small operator 
system may opt into the prescriptive distribution integrity management 
provisions of paragraph (h) of this rule via written request to the PSP Chief 
or PSP Lead Engineer. 
(b) 
Standards applied to de minimis gas systems. 
(I) 
Unless otherwise specified in this rule, de minimis gas systems are 
exempt from these rules and 49 C.F.R. Part 192 rules, as incorporated. 
(II) 
System expansion. 
(A) 
Operators of de minimis gas systems must apply for Commission 
approval prior to any system expansion. 
(B) 
Operators of de minimis gas systems are prohibited from 
expanding the system unless proper permits are issued by the 
appropriate plumbing inspection authority. 
(III) 
Leak surveys.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
28 
(A) 
De minimis gas systems must be leak surveyed with equipment 
using instruments and techniques suitable for detecting fugitive 
natural gas, or LPG in gaseous/vapor form, as applicable, once 
every two years. 
(B) 
Records and results of all leak surveys will be kept for the life of the 
system. 
(IV) 
System repairs. 
(A) 
An operator of a de minimis gas system must repair all pipeline 
leaks that represent an existing or probable hazard to persons or 
property immediately upon discovery. 
(B) 
An operator of a de minimis gas system must repair all other 
pipeline system leaks within 45 days of discovery. 
(C) 
All system repairs must be completed by a plumber, gas utility 
technician, or utility contractor qualified to install and repair 
underground gas systems. 
(D) 
Prior to any leak repair, the operator of a de minimis gas system 
must acquire a plumbing permit issued by the appropriate plumbing 
inspection authority. If a leak has been repaired immediately due to 
a public safety hazard, the repair must be permitted after the fact 
and will be left exposed for inspection by the appropriate plumbing 
inspection authority or a PSP Inspector. 
(c) 
Standards applied to SSAG systems. 
(I) 
Any SSAG system is compliant with these rules if the system has been 
inspected and passed a system safety inspection within the last five years 
by one of the following means: 
(A) 
inspection by the PSP; 
(B) 
inspection by the Fire Department or Fire Marshall using NFPA 54 
(National Fuel Gas Code), NFPA 101 (Life Safety Code), or a 
written equivalent standard; or 
(C) 
inspection by the plumbing entity using the International Fuel Gas 
Code or a written equivalent standard. 
(II) 
Record of the final, approved inspection of the gas system installation 
shall be kept for the life of the system. 
(III) 
Records of all subsequent inspections shall be maintained and available 
for PSP inspection for a minimum of ten years from the date of inspection.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
29 
(d) 
Standards applied to LPG systems. 
(I) 
The PSP will deem any LPG tank – CDLE OPS Inspected to be compliant 
with these rules, subject to the following restrictions: 
(A) 
the tank has passed the CDLE OPS inspection; and 
(B) 
the tank has been inspected within the last five calendar years. 
(II) 
Leak surveys and leak pinpointing must use instruments and techniques 
suitable for detecting fugitive LPG in gaseous/vapor form. 
(e) 
Standards applied to Major MMO/LPG systems. 
(I) 
Major MMO/LPG systems must acquire a PHMSA Operator Identification 
Number. 
(II) 
Major MMO/LPG systems are subject to the P-DIMP of paragraph 
11203(h). 
(f) 
Standards applied to Minor MMO/LPG systems. 
(I) 
Minor MMO/LPG systems are subject to the P-DIMP of paragraph 
11203(h). 
(g) 
Standards applied to threshold MMO/LPG systems. 
(I) 
Threshold MMO/LPG systems are subject to the P-DIMP of paragraph 
11203(h). 
(h) 
Prescriptive distribution integrity management program (P-DIMP). 
(I) 
Operators subject to this rule shall be subject to a P-DIMP consisting of an 
evaluation and a plan. 
(II) 
Operators subject to this rule shall have a P-DIMP evaluation performed 
by the PSP at least once every five years; sooner when system history or 
PSP inspection indicates a change in any operating condition that 
necessitates a new P-DIMP evaluation. 
(III) 
The P-DIMP shall explicitly consider, prioritize, and rank system risks 
based on the following: 
(A) 
number of affected persons; 
(B) 
physical system parameters including but not limited to: 
(i) 
materials;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
30 
(ii) 
delivered system pressure, including whether the system is a 
low-pressure distribution system; and 
(iii) 
leak and leak repair history. 
(C) 
Operational system parameters including, but not limited to: 
(i) 
compliance history of the current legal operator; 
(ii) 
system records; 
(iii) 
availability of appropriate tools and equipment to operate 
gas pipeline system; 
(iv) 
availability of trained and/or qualified personnel to operate 
and maintain the system during normal operations; and 
(v) 
availability of trained and/or qualified personnel to operate 
the system during emergencies. 
(IV) 
All physical and operational parameters that are unknown at the time of 
the P-DIMP evaluation shall be considered by the PSP to pose the 
maximum public safety risk that is reasonably associated with the 
unknown parameter. 
(V) 
Following a completed P-DIMP evaluation, all operators of a Threshold 
MMO/LPG system or Minor MMO/LPG system shall be subject to P-DIMP 
unless the operator opts out of a P-DIMP as allowed in subparagraph 
11203(h)(VII). 
(VI) 
The P-DIMP shall prescribe operations and maintenance activities 
appropriate to maximize system integrity and minimize the public safety 
risk posed by the operation of the system. 
11204. 
Conversion to Service. 
A pipeline previously used in service not subject to 49 C.F.R. Part 192 qualifies for 
service subject to 49 C.F.R. Part 192 if the operator prepares and follows a written 
procedure addressing the requirements of 49 C.F.R. § 192.14. The operator shall make 
its written procedures and applicable records available to PSP Staff upon request. 
CUSTOMER-OWNED YARD LINES 
11205. 
Definitions. 
(a) 
“Customer-owned gas line” means the portion of the gas line that extends from 
the outlet of the gas meter to the customer’s structure (which is referred to as

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
31 
“downstream” from the gas meter because that is the direction of the flow of the 
gas). 
(b) 
“Customer-owned yard line” is a customer-owned gas line in which the gas meter 
is located remotely from (i.e., not immediately adjacent to) the structure and at 
least a portion of the pipe between the gas meter and the structure is buried. This 
definition excludes master meters and fuel lines serving industrial customers 
(e.g., power plants). 
(c) 
“Gas meter” means the meter that measures the transfer of gas from an operator 
to a customer. 
11206. Division of Responsibility for Maintenance and Repairs. 
(a) 
The process for determining whether a customer or operator is responsible for 
maintenance and repairs of a gas line is to locate the outlet of the gas meter. The 
pipe that extends downstream from the outlet of the gas meter is the customer-
owned gas line. The gas meter and the pipe upstream from the meter are owned 
by the operator. 
(b) 
Customers are responsible for maintenance and repairs of customer-owned gas 
lines, including without limitation customer-owned gas lines installed on or after 
August 14, 1995. 
(c) 
Operators are responsible for maintenance and repairs of gas meters and all 
other pipe upstream from gas meters. 
11207. 
Operator Duties. 
(a) 
In addition to the requirements outlined in 49 C.F.R. § 192.16, an operator that 
distributes natural gas to a customer-owned yard line installed by the operator on 
or after March 1, 2024, shall provide written notice to the customer within ninety 
days after installation that, at a minimum, informs the customer that the customer 
is responsible for maintaining and repairing the customer-owned yard line. 
(I) 
The operator shall use best efforts to obtain a copy of the written notice 
described in paragraph (a) of this rule with the customer’s signature within 
90 days after installation of the customer-owned yard line. 
(II) 
With respect to the copy of the written notice described in paragraph (a) of 
this rule that includes the customer’s signature in accordance with 
subparagraph (a)(I) of this section, the operator shall: 
(A) 
provide a copy to the customer for the customer’s records; 
(B) 
maintain a copy for the operator’s records for the duration of the 
lifetime of the customer-owned yard line;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
32 
(C) 
provide a copy to a pipeline safety inspector upon request; and 
(D) 
if the property on which the customer-owned yard line is located 
changes ownership, the operator must use best efforts to obtain a 
new copy of the written notice described in paragraph (d) of this 
rule with the new property owner’s signature from the new property 
owner within ninety days after the change of ownership if the 
operator is aware of the change. 
(III) 
If, after best efforts, the operator fails to obtain a copy of the written notice 
described in paragraph (a) of this rule with the customer’s signature from 
the customer in accordance with subparagraph (a)(I) of this rule, the 
operator must either maintain proof of efforts to obtain the customer’s 
signature or document the customer’s refusal to provide a signature. 
(b) 
In addition to the requirements outlined in 49 C.F.R. §§ 192.353 and 192.355, 
operators must ensure that service regulator vents and relief vents installed or 
reinstalled on or after the effective date of this rule are at least 12 inches above 
ground level at the time of installation or reinstallation and located in an area that 
is protected from external blockage. 
(c) 
In addition to the requirements outlined in 49 C.F.R. § 192.481, a visual 
inspection of gas meters and service regulators is required by a qualified 
individual no less frequently than every five calendar years with intervals not to 
exceed 63 months. The documentation of each inspection shall be recorded and 
the operator of the gas meter or service regulator shall retain the documentation 
for the lifetime of the gas meter or service regulator. 
BEST PRACTICES 
11208. 
Best Practices. 
(a) 
These rules are not intended to prohibit or foreclose the use of best practices and 
standards accepted in the industry. To the extent any such best practices and/or 
standards exist at the adoption of these rules, or subsequently develop, that are 
believed to be prohibited by these rules, these rules shall be construed to allow 
the use of such best practices and standards. 
11209. 
Advanced Leak Detection Survey Requirements. 
Effective January 1, 2027, in addition to the requirements incorporated by references in 
paragraph 11008(b), an operator shall comply with the following subsections.  
Operators shall perform all leak detection surveys with the use of advanced leak 
detection technology, as identified in subparagraph 11103(b)(II) annual reporting 
requirement.  In cases where a leak survey cannot be performed in the prescribed 
interval, the operator shall submit notification and documentation to the PSP Chief. 
(a) 
Transmission and gathering pipelines.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
33 
(I) 
For transmission and gathering pipelines in Class 1, 2, and 3 locations 
outside High Consequence Areas (HCAs), an operator shall perform a 
leak detection survey at intervals not exceeding 15 months, but at least 
once each calendar year. 
(II) 
For transmission and gathering pipelines in Class 1, 2, and 3 locations 
within HCAs, an operator shall perform a leak detection survey at intervals 
not exceeding 7.5 months, but at least twice a calendar year. 
(III) 
For transmission and gathering pipelines in Class 4 locations, including 
Class 4 locations within HCAs, an operator shall perform a leak detection 
survey at intervals not exceeding four and half months, but at least four 
times each calendar year. 
(b) 
Distribution pipelines. 
(I) 
For distribution pipelines inside business districts, operators shall perform 
a leak detection survey annually, not to exceed 15 months, but at least 
once each calendar year. 
(II) 
For distribution pipelines outside business districts that are steel pipelines 
without cathodic protection, are known to leak based on material, design, 
or past operations and maintenance history, or are distributed anode 
protected pipelines with a historically deficient reading, operators shall 
perform a leak detection survey annually, not to exceed 15 months, but at 
least once each calendar year. 
(III) 
For all other distribution pipelines outside of business districts, operators 
shall perform a leak detection survey at intervals not to exceed 39 months, 
but at least once every three calendar years. 
(IV) 
All operators classified as MMO or LPG are exempt from this rule. 
11210. 
Leak Classification and Repair Requirements. 
Advanced leak detection technology that is not concentration based is intended to 
provide the operator with overall system health information and will provide indications 
of leaks.  The use of such advanced leak detection technology does not replace the role 
of conventional leak detection equipment needed to pinpoint a leak for purposes of 
investigation and classification. 
(a) 
Effective January 1, 2027, each operator shall classify all reported leaks within 
48 hours of confirmed discovery.  Each classification shall be performed by an 
individual with appropriate qualifications. 
(I) 
Leak classification shall use the following definitions.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
34 
(A) 
Grade 1 – A leak that represents an existing or probable hazard to 
persons or property, requires immediate repair or continuous action 
until the conditions are no longer hazardous. 
(B) 
Grade 2 – A leak that is recognized as being non-hazardous at the 
time of detection, but justified scheduled repair based on probable 
future hazard.  Grade 2 leaks include: 
(i) 
any leak of LPG, hydrogen gas, or carbon dioxide that does 
not qualify as a Grade 1 leak; or 
(ii) 
any leak that, in the judgement of operating personnel, is of 
sufficient magnitude to justify scheduled repair within six 
months or less. 
(C) 
Grade 3 – A leak that is non-hazardous at the time of detection and 
is reasonably expected to remain non-hazardous. Grade 3 leaks 
include any leak that does not meet the criteria of Grades 1 or 2. 
(II) 
Any above grade, non-hazardous leak that can be resolved by tightening, 
lubrication, or minor adjustment shall not be graded and is beyond the 
scope of this rule 11210. 
(b) 
Effective January 1, 2027, minimum requirements for response to each grade of 
leak are as follows: 
(I) 
a Grade 1 leak requires immediate repair or continuous action until the 
conditions are no longer hazardous; 
(II) 
a Grade 2 leak shall be repaired within 12 months after confirmed 
discovery.  When the ground is frozen or otherwise inaccessible, the 
Grade 2 leak shall be monitored and evaluated at least every 6 months 
after confirmed discovery to ensure that the leak will not become a Grade 
1 leak prior to repair, and shall be repaired within 12 months after 
confirmed discovery; and 
(III) 
a Grade 3 leak shall be monitored and evaluated at least every 12 months 
after confirmed discovery to ensure the leak will not become a Grade 1 or 
Grade 2 leak prior to repair or abandonment, as applicable. 
(A) 
If the pipeline is not scheduled for abandonment within five years of 
the confirmed discovery date, the leak shall be repaired within 24 
months after confirmed discovery. 
(B) 
If the pipeline is scheduled for abandonment within five years of the 
confirmed discovery date, the operator may monitor and evaluate 
the leak at least every 12 months instead of repairing.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
35 
(IV) 
A repair can include repair, replacement, or abandonment. 
(V) 
All operators classified as MMO or LPG shall classify all leaks as Grade 1 
and repair immediately. 
11211. – 11299. 
[Reserved]. 
SAFETY STANDARDS FOR LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (LNG) SYSTEMS 
11300. 
Standards – General. 
An operator shall comply with the safety standards for liquefied natural gas facilities that 
are incorporated by reference in paragraph 11008(c). 
11301. – 11399. 
[Reserved]. 
SAFETY STANDARDS FOR PIPELINE OPERATOR DRUG AND ALCOHOL 
PROGRAMS 
11400. 
Standards – General. 
An operator shall comply with the standards for pipeline operator drug and alcohol 
programs that are incorporated by reference in paragraph 11008(d). 
11401. – 11499. 
[Reserved]. 
RULE VIOLATIONS, CIVIL PENALTIES, AND COMPLIANCE ACTIONS 
11500. 
Violations - General. 
(a) 
Violations of these rules are determined by inspections, audits, and/or testing 
performed under rule 11013 that indicate a compliance deficiency or deficiencies 
with respect to rule requirement(s). 
(b) 
Violations will be examined by the PSP Chief to determine the impact category 
resulting from the violation: no immediate safety impact, incident, public 
endangerment, operator endangerment, or a loss/reduction of pipeline integrity. 
(c) 
Alleged rule violations are deemed “probable” until completion of an appropriate 
enforcement action, including any Commission hearing or proceeding. 
(d) 
The PSP Chief or PSP Staff may use the determination in paragraph (a) as a 
prima facie basis for opening a complaint proceeding pursuant to paragraph 
1302(g) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Procedure. 
11501. 
Violations – Civil Penalties. 
(a) 
This rule shall apply to violation(s) that would have otherwise been discovered by 
a prudent operator in the normal course of business. This is the lowest degree of

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
36 
culpability for which operators may be penalized and does not limit the 
Commission from penalizing operators for higher degrees of culpability. 
(b) 
An operator who violates these rules or an order of the Commission issued under 
these rules may be subject to civil penalties as follows: 
(I) 
civil penalties shall not exceed $200,000 per instance of violation; 
(II) 
each day of a continuing violation constitutes a separate instance of 
violation; and 
(III) 
in the case of a group or series of related violations, the aggregate amount 
of such penalties shall not exceed $2,000,000. 
(c) 
Civil penalties – general. The PSP Chief may propose that the Commission 
assess civil penalties against an operator following a PSP inspection and/or 
investigation that has established specific pipeline safety rule violation(s) and a 
time-dependent or time-independent nature of the violations(s). 
(d) 
Civil penalties – calculation. To provide consistency and specificity, civil penalties 
shall be calculated through the formulaic method as follows. 
(I) 
Time-dependent/history based activity violations. 
(A) 
Violations determined by an action or activity not performed or 
failure to be performed in accordance with rule or procedure: 
(i) 
the penalty is assessed by individual action or activity 
required by rule or procedure; 
(ii) 
the penalty amount is calculated by the equation: 
B x t x Fph x Fhh x Fi , 
where: 
B = Base penalty of $1 per day for the activity associated with the 
violation 
t = Timeframe of non-compliance, in days 
Fph = Pertinent/related system history factor, as determined in the Time-Dependent 
Violation Impact Factor Table 
Fhh = Hazardous history factor, as determined in the Time-Dependent Violation Impact 
Factor Table 
Fi = Incident history factor, as determined in the Time-Dependent Violation 
Impact Factor Table

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
37 
(B) 
Time-dependent violation impact factor table: 
 
(II) 
Time-independent/outcome-based violations. 
(A) 
Violations determined by a failure to follow or inadequate/missing 
operator procedures: 
(i) 
the penalty is assessed by individual or group actions or 
activities required by rule or procedure; 
(ii) 
the penalty amount is calculated by the equation: 
B x Fimpact, where 
B = $5,000 base penalty per instance of violation 
Fimpact = Time-independent Impact Factor as determined in the Time-Independent 
Violation Impact Factor Table 
Time-Dependent Violation Impact Factor Table 
FACTO
R 
THRESHOLD 
Factor 
multiplier if 
threshold 
NOT met 
Factor 
multiplier if 
threshold met 
Fph 
The violation was associated with 
other inspection findings that 
indicated related effects on pipeline 
system integrity (e.g., leaks, 
corrosion, PHMSA Advisory Bulletin, 
missing records, etc.) 
1 
5 
Fhh 
The violation was associated with 
other inspection findings that 
indicated related effects on public 
safety (e.g., hazardous leaks, safety-
critical activity, safety-related 
condition, etc.) 
1 
10 
Fi 
The violation was associated with 
other inspection findings that 
indicated the violation contributed to 
an Incident 
1 
20

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
38 
(B) 
Violations determined by an unqualified worker performing 
operations, maintenance, or construction tasks: 
(i) 
the penalty is assessed per worker and specific individual 
qualification required by rule or procedure; and 
(ii) 
the penalty amount is calculated by the equation: 
B x Fimpact, where 
B = $5,000 base penalty per instance of violation 
Fimpact = Time-independent Impact Factor as determined in the Time-Independent 
Violation Impact Factor Table 
(C) 
Rule 11201 violations: 
(i) 
the penalty is assessed per applicable paragraph of rule 
11201; 
(ii) 
the penalty amount is calculated by the equation: 
B x Fimpact, where: 
B = $5,000 base penalty per instance of violation 
Fimpact = Time-independent Impact Factor as determined in the Time-Independent 
Violation Impact Factor Table 
(D) 
Missing or incomplete records: 
(i) 
the penalty is assessed by grouped action or activity 
required by rule or procedure; 
(ii) 
the penalty is assessed by applicable inspection focus, i.e., 
district operating area, operating unit, or total operator 
system; 
(iii) 
the penalty is calculated based on the estimated volume of 
missing or incomplete records: 
(1) 
Gross Incompletion (Record incompletion/absence ≥ 
10 percent for complete record absence for a required 
code segment) = $10,000/code/segment/calendar 
year; 
(2) 
Major Incompletion (Record incompletion/absence ≥ 5 
percent and < 10 percent for a required code 
segment) = $5,000/code/segment/calendar year; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
39 
(3) 
Significant Incompletion (Record 
incompletion/absence ≥ 2 percent and < 5 percent for 
a required code segment) = 
$2,500/code/segment/calendar year. 
(E) 
Time-independent violation impact factor table: 
Time-Independent Violation Impact Factor Table 
THRESHOLD 
Factor 
multiplier if 
threshold 
met 
The violation resulted in no immediate 
safety impact  
1 
The violation resulted in operator 
endangerment; operator property loss 
> $10,000; or emergency (versus 
precautionary) actions by the operator 
necessary to protect system integrity  
5 
The violation resulted in public 
endangerment; non-operator property 
loss > $10,000; or a loss of pipeline 
integrity 
10 
The violation resulted in an Incident 
20 
(e) 
Multiple calculated penalties will be summed to compute a final civil penalty. 
(f) 
The PSP Chief may propose to the Commission the assessment of a revised 
final civil penalty lower than the summed calculated penalties based on the 
operator’s documented and verifiable efforts to mitigate the violations(s) and 
improve overall system safety and integrity. 
(g) 
The calculated and final civil penalty amounts shall be illustrated in the NPV to 
the operator. 
(h) 
Nothing in this rule shall prohibit the Commission from the calculation and/or 
assessment of a new final civil penalty during a formal hearing process. 
(i) 
The Commission may assess doubled or tripled civil penalties against any public 
utility, as provided by § 40-7-113.5(3), C.R.S., § 40-7-113.5(4), C.R.S., and this 
rule.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
40 
(I) 
The Commission may assess any public utility a civil penalty containing 
doubled penalties only if: 
(A) 
the public utility has admitted liability by paying the proposed final 
civil penalty for, or has been adjudicated by the Commission in an 
administratively final written decision to be liable for, engaging in 
prior conduct that constituted an intentional violation of a statute in 
Articles 1 to 7 and 15 of Title 40, C.R.S., a Commission rule, or a 
Commission order; 
(B) 
the conduct for which doubled civil penalties are sought violates the 
same statute, rule, or order as conduct for which the public utility 
has either admitted liability by paying the civil penalty assessment, 
or been adjudicated by the Commission in an administratively final 
written decision to be liable; and 
(C) 
the conduct for which doubled civil penalties are sought occurred 
within one year after conduct for which the public utility has either 
admitted liability by paying the civil penalty assessment, or been 
adjudicated by the Commission in an administratively final written 
decision to be liable. 
(II) 
The Commission may assess any public utility a civil penalty containing 
tripled penalties only if: 
(A) 
the public utility has admitted liability by paying the proposed final 
civil penalty for, or has been adjudicated by the Commission in an 
administratively final written decision to be liable for, engaging in 
prior conduct that constituted two or more intentional violations of a 
statute in Articles 1 to 7 and 15 of Title 40, C.R.S., a Commission 
rule, or a Commission order; 
(B) 
the conduct for which tripled civil penalties are sought violates the 
same statute, rule, or order as conduct for which the public utility 
has either admitted liability by paying the civil penalty assessment, 
or conduct for which the public utility has been adjudicated by the 
Commission in an administratively final written decision to be liable, 
in at least two prior instances; and 
(C) 
the conduct for which tripled civil penalties are sought occurred 
within one year after the two most recent instances of conduct for 
which the public utility has either admitted liability by paying the civil 
penalty assessment, or been adjudicated by the Commission in an 
administratively final written decision to be liable.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
41 
11502. 
Compliance Action - General. 
(a) 
Initiation. Upon discovery of a probable violation of these rules, the PSP Chief 
will initiate a compliance action intended to remediate and prevent recurrence of 
the violation. 
(b) 
Intent. A compliance action is intended to minimize the realized or potential 
impacts of the violation on public safety and/or the integrity of the pipeline system 
or LNG facility and will be consistent with the intent of § 40-7-117, C.R.S. After 
the Commission issues a notice, an operator shall have the opportunity to 
respond and to cure any violation of these rules. 
(c) 
Structure. All compliance action notices to a pipeline operator must include: 
(I) 
a statement of the law, rule(s), or order(s) that the operator is alleged to 
have violated; and 
(II) 
a statement of the facts upon which the determination of violation is based 
and recommendations on actions that may be taken by the operator to 
remedy further noncompliance. 
(d) 
Service of process. Service of process shall be undertaken pursuant to rule 1205 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Procedure and § 40-6-108, C.R.S. 
11503. 
Compliance Action – Warning Notice. 
In the instance of a probable violation of these rules that has no previous enforcement 
history and poses a low risk to public safety and/or pipeline/LNG facility integrity, as 
determined by current regulation, industry standard, or other relevant objective technical 
standard, or if the operator provides advance notice, the PSP Chief may issue a 
warning notice to an operator. The warning notice will advise the operator of the 
probable violation, require the operator to correct the probable violation or be subject to 
further enforcement action under these rules, and may require a formal written response 
from the operator on their corrective action plan so that a follow-up inspection can be 
scheduled. 
11504. 
Notice of Probable Violation (NPV). 
(a) 
In the instance of a probable violation of these rules that has a previous 
enforcement history or poses a moderate to severe risk to public safety or 
pipeline or LNG facility integrity, as determined by current regulation, industry 
standard, or other relevant objective technical standard, the PSP Chief may issue 
a NPV to an operator. The NPV will advise the operator of the probable violation 
and include the following sections: 
(I) 
a statement of inspection findings that incorporates the requirements of 
rule 11502, above;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
42 
(II) 
a statement of the regulatory interpretation upon which the determination 
of probable violation is based; 
(III) 
a civil penalty calculation using rule 11501 stating separately for each 
probable violation the maximum penalty amount provided and a total 
penalty; 
(IV) 
the PSP Chief’s civil penalty assessment evaluation consistent with § 40-
7-117, C.R.S. that includes a conclusion for or against assessment of the 
civil penalty in whole or in part; 
(V) 
a final recommended civil penalty assessment; 
(VI) 
as appropriate, the NPV will offer the operator a proposed alternative 
enforcement in lieu of the civil penalties, in whole or in part. The proposed 
alternative enforcement will describe the process in sufficient detail to 
explain how it will provide for the improvement of public safety; 
(VII) 
as appropriate, the NPV will include a compliance directive that prescribes 
specific actions to be taken by the operator within a specific timeframe to 
correct the violation; and 
(VIII) a description of the operator’s response options. 
(b) 
The NPV shall be filed in a new proceeding and shall serve as notice of the 
alleged probable violation and potential actions to be taken by the Commission. 
(c) 
Within 30 days after receipt of a NPV issued pursuant to the rule, an operator 
shall file in the proceeding its response with one of the following options. 
(I) 
The operator may admit the NPV through the following filings and actions: 
(A) 
the operator shall pay any proposed final civil penalty in full; and 
(B) 
the operator shall agree to any proposed compliance directive. 
(II) 
The operator may request the Commission consider an offer in 
compromise to the NPV through the following filings and actions: 
(A) 
the operator may request reconsideration, reissuance, or dismissal 
of the initial NPV through submittal of a written explanation, 
information, or other material in response to the allegations 
contained in the NPV; in objection to the proposed compliance 
directive; or in mitigation of the proposed final civil penalty; or 
(B) 
the operator and the PSP Chief may jointly file a stipulation and 
settlement agreement pursuant to rule 11508, resolving the 
allegations in the NPV for the Commission’s consideration.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
43 
(III) 
The operator may oppose the NPV, or any part thereof. The operator shall 
file its response opposing the allegations in the NPV in the proceeding and 
provide all relevant information it finds addresses the issues raised. If an 
operator opposes any alleged violation in the NPV, the matter shall be set 
for hearing. When applicable and appropriate, such appeal will stay the 
duration of the noncompliance for purposes of any penalty calculation 
contingent upon interim operator actions to cure the alleged violation(s). 
(d) 
If the operator fails to respond as provided in this rule within 30 days of the NPV, 
the NPV shall be deemed opposed by the operator and shall be set for hearing 
as prescribed by subparagraph (c)(III) above. 
(e) 
If a violator does not remit the assessed penalty or the lesser amount agreed 
upon pursuant to this rule, the Commission may recover the amount due plus 
court costs in a civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction. 
(f) 
Any civil penalty authorized by this rule may be reduced by the Commission 
based on consideration of factors and metrics, as follows: 
(I) 
an evaluation of the severity of the violation, in terms of its actual or 
potential effects on the public safety or pipeline system integrity; 
(II) 
the extent to which the violation and any underlying conditions that may 
have contributed to the likelihood or severity of the violation have been 
remedied; 
(III) 
the extent to which the violator agrees to spend, in lieu of the payment of 
part of the civil penalty, a specified amount on Commission-approved 
measures to reduce the overall risk to the pipeline system safety or 
integrity; except that the amount of the penalty payable to the Commission 
shall be no less than $5,000; and 
(IV) 
whether or not the violation was self-reported by the operator. 
(g) 
The remedy provided in this rule is an addition to any other remedies available to 
the Commission under the constitution or laws of the state or of the United 
States. 
11505. 
Request for Amendment (RFA). 
(a) If an inspection, audit, or investigation reveals that an operator’s plans or 
procedures required by these rules may be insufficient to ensure the 
compliant operation of a pipeline or LNG facility, the PSP Chief may issue an 
RFA. 
(b) 
The RFA shall serve as notice from the Commission of potential inadequacies 
and serve to facilitate and expedite necessary plan or procedure revision(s) and 
implementation so that pipeline operation, maintenance, training, or emergency

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
44 
response is not compromised. The RFA shall specify the potential inadequacies 
and may: 
(I) 
specify a proposed timeline for revised plan implementation based on the 
impact to pipeline operations; and 
(II) 
provide an opportunity for response. 
11506. 
Notice of Amendment (NOA). 
(a) 
If an inspection, audit, or investigation reveals that an operator’s plans or 
procedures required by these rules are inadequate to ensure the safe operation 
of a pipeline or LNG facility, the PSP Chief may issue a NOA. 
(b) 
The NOA shall be filed in a new proceeding and shall serve as notice from the 
Commission of the alleged inadequacies and to facilitate and expedite plan or 
procedure revision and implementation so that public safety is not compromised. 
The NOA shall: 
(I) 
specify the alleged inadequacies and the proposed action(s) for revision of 
the plans and procedures; 
(II) 
specify a proposed timeline for revised plan/procedure implementation 
based on the impact to public safety; and 
(III) 
provide an opportunity for response. 
(c) 
Within 30 days after receipt of a NOA issued pursuant to the rule, unless a longer 
period is otherwise specified in the NOA or a different time period is agreed to 
mutually, an operator shall file in the proceeding its response with one of the 
following options. 
(I) 
The operator may admit the NOA through the following filings and actions: 
(A) 
the operator shall pay any proposed final civil penalty in full; and 
(B) 
the operator shall agree to any proposed compliance directive. 
(II) 
The operator may request the Commission consider an offer in 
compromise to the NOA through the following filings and actions: 
(A) 
the operator may request reconsideration and reissuance of the 
initial NOA through submittal of a written explanation, information, 
or other material in response to the allegations contained in the 
NOA; in objection to the proposed compliance directive; or in 
mitigation of the proposed final civil penalty; or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
45 
(B) 
the operator and the PSP Chief may jointly file a stipulation and 
settlement agreement pursuant to rule 11507, resolving the 
allegations in the NOA for the Commission’s consideration. 
(III) 
The operator may oppose the NOA, or any part thereof. The operator shall 
file its response opposing the allegations in the NOA in the proceeding 
and provide all relevant information it finds addresses the issues raised. If 
an operator opposes any alleged violation in the NOA, the matter shall be 
set for hearing. 
(d) 
If the operator fails to respond as provided in this rule within 30 days of the NOA, 
the NOA shall be deemed opposed by the operator and shall be set for hearing 
as prescribed by subparagraph (c)(III) above. 
11507. 
Compliance Action – Hazardous Facilities Order (HFO). 
(a) 
If an inspection, audit, investigation, or test reveals that the continued operation 
of a pipeline or LNG facility may pose a severe and imminent risk to public 
safety, as determined by current regulation, industry standard, or other relevant 
objective technical standard, the PSP Chief may consider the pipeline or LNG 
facility to be a hazardous facility and file a formal complaint with the Commission 
against the operator of the facility. The complaint shall allege facts sufficient to 
establish the existence of a hazardous facility and to support an HFO issued 
upon conclusion of a Commission proceeding, or, if justified, a summary HFO 
pursuant to paragraph (i) of this rule. 
(b) 
A formal complaint by PSP staff shall be issued, and a hearing shall be 
conducted in accordance with the Commission’s Rules of Practice and 
Procedure and Article 6 of Title 40, C.R.S. 
(c) 
Except as provided in paragraph (i) of this rule, if the Commission finds, after 
hearing, that a pipeline facility or a LNG facility is hazardous to life or property, 
the Commission shall issue an order directing the operator to take corrective 
action. Corrective action may include, without limitation, suspension or restriction 
of the use of the pipeline facility or LNG facility, physical inspection, testing, 
repair, or replacement. 
(d) 
In making a determination that a pipeline facility or a LNG facility is hazardous to 
life or property, the following shall be considered, as appropriate: 
(I) 
the characteristics of the pipe used in the pipeline facility or the LNG 
facility involved, including (without limitation) its age; manufacturer; 
physical properties, including its resistance to corrosion and deterioration; 
and the method of its manufacture, construction or assembly; 
(II) 
the nature of the gas transported by the pipeline facility or the LNG facility, 
including its corrosive and deteriorative qualities; the sequence in which

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
46 
the gas is transported; and the pressure required for transportation of the 
gas; 
(III) 
the characteristics of the areas in which the pipeline facility or the LNG 
facility is located, in particular the climatic and geotechnical or geologic 
conditions associated with the areas, the population, the population 
density, and the community growth patterns of the areas; 
(IV) 
any recommendation of the NTSB issued in connection with any 
investigation conducted by that Board; and 
(V) 
such other factors as may be relevant. 
(e) 
A Commission decision finding that a pipeline facility or a LNG facility is a 
hazardous facility shall contain a description of the corrective action required of 
the operator and the date by which the operator shall complete the ordered 
corrective action. 
(f) 
The Commission shall dismiss the complaint if it determines that the pipeline 
facility or the LNG facility is not hazardous to life or property. 
(g) 
Upon a showing that the ordered corrective action has been completed and has 
eliminated the condition(s) that made a pipeline facility or a LNG facility a severe 
and imminent risk to public safety, the Commission shall issue an order of 
satisfaction. Prior to issuing an order of satisfaction, the Commission may hold a 
hearing to determine whether the operator has completed the corrective action 
and whether the corrective action has eliminated the conditions(s) that made the 
pipeline facility or the LNG facility hazardous to life or property. The order of 
satisfaction shall be issued in the complaint docket in which the hazardous 
facilities order was entered. 
(h) 
The Commission may bring a formal complaint alleging the existence of a 
hazardous facility supporting the issuance of an HFO and an NPV in the same 
proceeding, but is not required to do so. 
(i) 
If the Commission determines that the delay inherent in holding a hearing may 
result in, and significantly increases the likelihood of, serious harm to life or 
property, the Commission may issue an expedited or summary HFO before 
holding a hearing. The provisions of paragraph (b) of this rule shall apply to a 
hearing held pursuant to this paragraph. The purpose of a hearing held pursuant 
to this paragraph is to determine whether the summary HFO should remain in 
effect, should be amended, or should be rescinded. The summary HFO shall 
include the following: 
(I) 
the findings that support the determination that a summary HFO is 
appropriate; 
(II) 
the corrective or remedial actions required of the operator; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
47 
(III) 
a statement informing the operator of its right to a hearing, upon request, 
as soon as practicable after issuance of the order. 
11508. 
Consent Stipulations. 
(a) 
If a matter has been set for hearing at any time before the issuance of a decision 
by the Commission, the PSP Chief and the operator may agree to dispose of the 
matter by a consent stipulation. The consent stipulation shall be submitted to the 
Commission for approval or rejection. 
(b) 
A consent stipulation executed under this rule shall include the following: 
(I) 
an admission by the operator of facts; 
(II) 
an express waiver by the operator of further procedural steps, including 
(without limitation) its right to a hearing; its right to seek judicial review, or 
otherwise to challenge or to contest the validity of the consent stipulation; 
and its right to seek judicial review of the Commission order accepting the 
consent stipulation; 
(III) 
an acknowledgment by the operator that the NPV may be used to 
construe the terms of the consent stipulation; and 
(IV) 
a statement of the actions that the operator will take and the date by which 
such actions shall be completed. 
(c) 
As appropriate, a consent stipulation executed under this rule may include a civil 
penalty. 
11509. 
Subpoenas. 
The Commission and Administrative Law Judge, or the Director may issue a subpoena 
in accordance with rule 1406 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Procedure. 
11510. 
Injunctive Relief. 
The Commission may request that the Attorney General bring an action in an 
appropriate district court for injunctive or other relief as provided in Article 7 of Title 40, 
C.R.S. whenever the Commission is of the opinion that an operator has engaged in, is 
engaging in, is about to engage in, or willfully permits any act or practice that 
constitutes, a violation of 49 U.S.C. §§ 60101 et seq., these rules, or an order of the 
Commission. 
11511. – 11999. 
[Reserved]. 
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS 
C.F.R. - Code of Federal Regulations

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
48 
HFO - Hazardous Facilities Order 
LP -  Liquid Petroleum 
LNG -  Liquefied Natural Gas 
LPG -  Liquid Petroleum Gas 
MMO -  
Master Meter Operator 
NFPA -  
National Fire Protection Association 
NOA -  
Notice of Amendment 
NPV -  Notice of Probable Violation 
NRC - National Response Center 
P-DIMP - Prescriptive Distribution Integrity Management Program 
PSP - Pipeline Safety Program (of the Colorado PUC) 
PHMSA - U.S. Department of Transportation’s Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety 
Administration 
RFA - Request for Amendment 
RFI -  Request for Information 
SSAG - 
Single Structure Above Ground (gas pipeline system) 
U.S.C. - United States Code

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 723-11 
Public Utilities Commission 
 
49 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 03/17/2021. 
Rules 11000.(a), 11001, 11008, 11010.(c), 11011.(d), 11012.(b), 11013, 11100, 
11101.(d), 11103, 11201, 11203.(e)-(g), 11500.(b), 11501.(b), 
11501.(d)(II)(D)(iii), 11503, 11504.(c)(II)(B), 11504(e)-(g), 11507.(a)-(c) eff. 
05/30/2024. 
Rules 11001 (h)-(ggg), 11008, 11205-11208 eff. 03/02/2025. 
Rules 11001, 11008(b), 11008(e), 11009, 11012(b), 11100(c), 11100(e)(I)(I)-(K), 
11101(b)(III)-(IV), 11101(b)(VI), 11102(b)(I), 11102(b)(III)(G)-(H), 11103(b)(II), 
11201(b)-(d), 11203(b)(IV)(A), 11209-11211 emer. rules eff. 10/31/2025. 
Rules 11001 (a)-(b), 11100(c), 11100(e), 11502(b), 11201(b), 11209-11210 eff. 
05/30/2026.
