---
id: "4_CCR_740-1"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "4 CCR 740-1"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12057&fileName=4%20CCR%20740-1&type=pdf"
---

#### 4_CCR_740-1. 4 CCR 740-1

1 
DEPARTMENT OF REGULATORY AGENCIES 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
COMBATIVE SPORTS RULES AND REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
1.1 
AUTHORITY 
These regulations are adopted pursuant to the authority in sections 12-110-102(3), 12-110-107, and 12-
110-110(3)(b), C.R.S., and are intended to be consistent with the requirements of the State Administrative 
Procedures Act, sections 24-4-101 et seq. (the “APA”), C.R.S., and the Colorado Professional Boxing 
Safety Act, sections 12-110-101 et seq. (the “Practice Act”), C.R.S. 
1.2 
SCOPE AND PURPOSE 
These regulations shall govern the process to become licensed as a participant, official, judge, referee, 
promoter, or second and shall govern all permitted events in the state of Colorado. 
1.3 
APPLICABILITY 
These Rules apply to all combative sports events where purses or prizes may or may not be given. 
The standards and regulations incorporated by reference may be examined at the Colorado Office of 
Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission, 1560 Broadway, Suite 1350, Denver, 
Colorado 80202, during normal business hours, Monday through Friday, except when such days are state 
holidays. Certified copies of the incorporated standards shall be provided at cost upon request. The 
Director or the Director’s designee will provide information regarding how the incorporated standards and 
regulations may be examined at any state public depository library. The standards and regulations are 
also available from the agency, organization or association originally issuing the code, standard, guideline 
or rules as follows: Association of Boxing Commissions and Combative Sports 
(https://www.abcboxing.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/unified-mma-rules-rev-july-2024.pdf (effective 
November 1, 2024,)) and the Association of Boxing Commissions and Combative Sports 
(https://www.abcboxing.com/unified-rules-kickboxing (effective July 26, 2017)). This rule does not include 
any later amendments or editions of the code, standard, guideline, or rules. 
1.4 
GENERAL RULES 
This Rule is promulgated pursuant to sections 12-110-107 and 12-110-104, C.R.S. 
A. 
DEFINITIONS 
1. 
Bout. Match, exhibition or contest between two participants involving a combative sport. 
2. 
Chief Inspector. An official assigned to carry out all duties as assigned by the Director. 
3. 
Combative sport. Boxing, kickboxing, mixed martial arts, and martial arts. 
4. 
Commission. The Colorado Commission of Combative Sports. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
2 
5. 
Commission representative: The Director or an official. 
6. 
Director. The Director of the Colorado Office of Combative Sports. 
7. 
Director Approved Sanctioning Organization. A nationally, internationally, regionally, 
state or tribal organization approved by the Director that may rank participants within 
each weight class or sanctions and approves contests or bouts in those weight classes. 
8. 
Division Director. Director of the Division of Professions and Occupations, within the 
Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies. 
9. 
Elimination Fighter. A participant who has never received or competed for a purse. 
10. 
Event. A compilation of bouts that occur at one location during a single day. 
11. 
Fraud. Any licensee who cheats, obtains money or some other benefit, or misrepresents 
facts by deliberate and willful deception. 
12. 
Kick. A strike using the foot or feet. 
13. 
Official. Any person who performs an official function during the supervision of a contest 
or exhibition. This includes referees, judges, timekeepers and inspectors. 
14. 
Martial Art. Includes by way of example and not limited to: aikido, judo, jujitsu, karate, 
kendo, kung fu, sumo wrestling, t' ai chi, tae kwon do, wrestling, or Muay Thai. 
15. 
Mixed Martial Art. Any physical contact bout between two or more individuals who 
attempt to outscore, knock out, or gain submission of the opponent by using any 
combination of boxing, kicking, choking techniques, or martial art. 
16. 
Muay Thai. Any physical bout between two individuals striking with the hand, knee, 
elbow and any part of the leg including the feet to outscore, knock out or otherwise 
disable an opponent into submission. Muay Thai shall also include the use of sweeps to 
off balance an individual. 
17. 
Non-Sanctioned organization. Is an organization that is not governed by a state or 
tribal athletic Commission. 
18. 
Promoter. Any person, association, corporation, or organization licensed to promote 
events. 
19. 
Purse. A bout earning, a financial guarantee or any other remuneration for which 
participants are participating in a contest or exhibition and includes the participant’s share 
of any payment received for radio broadcasting, television or motion picture rights. 
20. 
Recognized Sanctioning Organization. A National Olympic Committee recognized and 
in good standing with the International Olympic Committee. 
21. 
Reinstatement. The process by which an expired license is returned to Active status. 
22. 
Renewal. The process of retaining an active license in accordance with the schedule 
established by the Division Director pursuant to sections 12-110-109 and 12-20-202, 
C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
3 
23. 
Sanctioned Organization. An organization that sanctions l bouts of boxing, kickboxing, 
Muay Thai or mixed martial arts or martial arts by a state or tribal athletic Commission 
that has filed a permit and their rules for approval. 
24. 
Sponsoring Organization. A national or international organization generally recognized 
in their community and which: may rank participants within each weight class or 
sanctions and approves bouts in those weight classes. 
C. 
VIOLATIONS OF RULES 
Violations of any provision of these Rules may result in immediate ejection from event, a ban from 
future events and subject the licensee to disciplinary action. 
D. 
RESPONSIBILITY 
All promoters, participants, corners and officials associated with combative sport events shall 
acquaint themselves with and comply with all applicable laws and rules of the Commission. 
E. 
IMPROPER CONDUCT, FOUL OR ABUSIVE LANGUAGE EJECTION 
1. 
The use of foul or abusive language or mannerisms or threats of physical harm by any 
person at any permitted event shall not be tolerated. This includes all press conferences, 
weigh-ins and any aspect of an event. In addition, prohibited conduct includes unfair 
dealings, unsportsmanlike conduct, protesting the decisions of the officials, or violating 
any laws or rules. 
2. 
If improper conduct occurs at any permitted event, the Director or chief inspector may 
eject the individual and forbid such person from acting in any capacity in connection with 
that or any subsequent permitted event. Any licensee who refuses to obey an order by 
the Director or chief inspector to leave the premises because of conduct prohibited in this 
paragraph, or any person who returns to the premises in violation of the Director’s or 
chief inspector’s order may be subject to further disciplinary action. 
F. 
MODIFICATION OF BOUT RESULT 
1. 
Should the Director determine one or more of the following factors exist, the Director may 
request a hearing on a result modification matter: 
a. 
Indications of collusion affecting the result of the bout are present; 
b. 
The compilation of the scorecards of the judges disclosed an error which showed 
that the decision was given to the wrong participant; 
c. 
An error interpreting the rules that may have resulted in an incorrect decision or 
that improper referee mechanics contributed to an incorrect stoppage; or 
d. 
A positive test result reveals the use of a prohibited drug, substance, or method. 
b. 
In determining whether to modify a bout result, the Director may consider any relevant 
information submitted. The Director may also use any additional outside opinions or 
resources to determine the modification of any results. 
G. 
LIMITED USE OF INSTANT REPLAY 
The use of instant replay shall be limited to the below criteria:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
4 
1. 
Should the Director approve the use of instant replay prior to an event, only the referee 
may determine if the use of instant replay is indicated. 
2. 
The referee shall only use instant replay for the purpose of determining if a foul was 
committed that caused a “bout ending sequence” that brought about the final end of the 
fight. 
3. 
Based on the instant-replay review, the referee may make the final call with respect to the 
bout that could result in one of the following decisions: a winner of the bout; a “no-
contest” determination; a disqualification; or a technical decision by the judges. 
H. 
SANCTIONING ORGANIZATIONS 
1. 
Combative sports events, contests or bouts sanctioned by organizations recognized as a 
National Olympic Committee by the International Olympic Committee are Recognized 
Sanctioning Organizations and approved by the Director without any additional 
requirements. Combative sports events, contests or bouts sponsored by a Recognized 
Sanctioning Organization do not meet the definition of tough-person fighting under 
section 12-110-104(16)(a), C.R.S. It is the responsibility of the committee to notify the 
Director if the committee is no longer recognized as a National Olympic Committee by the 
International Olympic Committee within 30 days of their change in status. 
2. 
Combative sports events, contests or bouts not sanctioned by an organization recognized 
as a National Olympic Committee by the International Olympic Committee must submit 
the organization’s by-laws and rules for review by the Director. If approved by the 
Director, the organization will be deemed a Director Approved Sanctioning Organization 
and may apply for a permit. A Director Recognized Sanctioning Organization does not 
meet the definition of tough-person fighting under section 12-110-104(16)(a), C.R.S. It is 
the responsibility of the organization to notify the Director of any changes to the 
organization’s rules and re-submit them for the Director’s review 30 days prior to any 
permitted event, contest or bout. 
3. 
Combative sports events, contests or bouts sanctioned or sponsored by an organization 
not recognized as either a Recognized Sanctioning Organization or a Director Approved 
Sanctioning Organization are not permitted, meet the definition of tough-person fighting 
under section 12-110-104(16)(a), C.R.S., and are subject to disciplinary action under 
article 10 of Title 12 of the Colorado Revised Statutes. 
I. 
REINSTATEMENT OF AN EXPIRED LICENSE 
The purpose of this Rule is to establish the qualifications and procedures for reinstatement of an 
expired license pursuant to sections 12-110-109 and 12-20-105, C.R.S. 
1. 
Conditions of Reinstatement: License expired for less than two years 
a. 
An applicant seeking reinstatement of an expired license for less than two years 
shall complete a reinstatement application and pay a reinstatement fee. 
2. 
Conditions of Reinstatement: License expired two years or more 
a. 
An applicant seeking reinstatement of an expired license for two years or more 
shall complete a reinstatement application, pays a reinstatement fee and 
demonstrate competency for the specific position in a manner approved by the 
Director.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
5 
J. 
REPORTING CONVICTIONS, JUDGMENTS AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
1. 
Licensees shall notify the Director within 30 days of any of the following events: 
a. 
The conviction of a felony under any state or federal law, which would be a 
violation of section 12-110-111, C.R.S. A guilty verdict, a plea of guilty or a plea 
of nolo contendere (no contest) accepted by the court is considered a conviction; 
b. 
A disciplinary action imposed upon the licensee by another jurisdiction that 
licenses second, which would be a violation of section 12-110-111, C.R.S., 
including, but not limited to, a citation, sanction, probation, civil penalty, or a 
denial, suspension, revocation, or modification of a license whether it is imposed 
by consent decree, order, or other decision, for any cause other than failure to 
pay a license fee by the due date; 
c. 
Revocation or suspension by another state athlete Commission, municipality, 
federal or state agency or any association who oversees combative sports; 
d. 
Any judgment, award or settlement of a civil action or arbitration in which there 
was a final judgment or settlement against the licensee. 
2. 
The notice to the Director shall include the following information; 
a. 
If the event is an action by a governmental agency (as described above), the 
name of the agency, its jurisdiction, the case name, and the docket, proceeding 
or case number by which the event is designated, and a copy of the consent 
decree, order or decision; 
b. 
If the event is a felony conviction, the court, its jurisdiction, the case name, the 
case number, a description of the matter or a copy of the indictment or charges, 
and any plea or verdict entered by the court. The licensee shall also provide to 
the Director a copy of the imposition of sentence related to the felony conviction 
and the completion of all terms of the sentence with 30 days of such action; 
c. 
If the event concerns a civil action or arbitration proceeding, the court or arbiter, 
the jurisdiction, the case name, the case number, a description of the matter or a 
copy of the complaint, and a copy of the verdict, the court or arbitration decision, 
or, if settled, the settlement agreement and court’s order of dismissal; 
3. 
The licensee notifying the Director may submit a written statement with the notice to be 
included with the licensee’s records. 
K. 
REQUIREMENT TO NOTIFY DIRECTOR OF ADDRESS AND NAME CHANGES 
1. 
Licensees shall inform the Director of any name, address, telephone, or email change 
within thirty days of the change. The Director will not change a promoter’s information 
without explicit notification in a manner prescribed by the Director. 
2. 
One of the following forms of documentation is needed to change a name or correct a 
social security number or individual taxpayer identification number: 
a. 
Marriage license; 
b. 
Divorce decree;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
6 
c. 
Court order; 
d. 
Documentation from the Internal Revenue Service verifying the licensee’s valid 
individual taxpayer identification number; or 
e. 
A driver’s license or social security card with a second form of identification may 
be acceptable at the discretion of the Division Director. 
1.5 
REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICIPANTS IN ALL BOUTS 
This Rule is promulgated pursuant to sections 12-20-105, 12-20-202(1) and (2), 12-110-107, 12-110-108, 
12-110-109, and 12-110-111, C.R.S. 
A. 
LICENSE TO FIGHT APPLICATIONS 
A license is required for a participant to fight in a professional combative sports contest. All 
participants shall submit an application for a license to fight in a manner prescribed by the 
Division Director. Incomplete or incorrect applications will not be accepted. 
B. 
FEES 
Each applicant for a license shall pay the required fee before the license to fight is granted. The 
license fee schedule is established by the Division Director pursuant to section 12-20-105, C.R.S. 
C. 
MINIMUM AGE REQUIREMENT 
Any person who wishes to apply for a participant license must be a minimum age of eighteen, 
unless a signed verification of approval and waiver is signed by the parent or legal guardian and 
the Director approves. 
D. 
FEDERAL REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT 
1. 
Pursuant to the “Professional Boxing Safety Act of 1996” all professional boxing 
participants must be registered with the recognized boxing federal registry and obtain a 
federal identification card in order to participate in boxing bouts anywhere in the United 
States. Therefore, all professional boxing participants shall show proof of registration. All 
Mixed Martial Arts participants must register for a National Identification card. 
2. 
Any boxing debut participant must be registered with a federal identification card within 
seven days prior to the first bout. The participant shall not be permitted to box in any 
contest scheduled for more than four rounds for the participants first four bouts and shall 
not be permitted to compete in any bout of more than six rounds until the participant has 
participated in ten or more professional bouts, unless approved by the Director. 
3. 
Each participant will present their identification card or completed application to the 
Director or chief inspector no later than the scheduled time of the weigh-in for a bout. A 
participant, who is unable to produce their identification card or establish with the Director 
or chief inspector that they have a current federal identification, will not be permitted to 
participate in the bout.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
7 
E. 
WEIGH-INS AND FIGHT APPEARANCE 
1. 
Each participant must be weighed in the presence of a Commission representative as 
designated by the Director, on scales approved by the Director and at a place designated 
by the Director. Except for fight attire, participants must have all items of weight stripped 
from their body before they are weighed in. All participants shall appear at the weigh-in 
and event on time as required by the Director. All participants must report to the Director 
or chief inspector as soon as they arrive to the weigh-in and event at a place designated 
by the Director. Failure to report to the Director or chief inspector on time may disqualify 
the participant from competing and may subject the participant to disciplinary action. 
Unless a championship bout, participants’ weights will be rounded down to the nearest 
pound. The weigh-in shall be no less than six hours and no more than 36 hours prior to 
the scheduled event. The Director may require participants to be weighed more than 
once for major bouts/events. 
2. 
Participants are not allowed to leave the designed weigh-in area until such time as they 
are notified by the Director or the chief inspector. 
3. 
Participants shall be given one hour from the designated time to weigh in, unless 
otherwise approved by the Director. Failure to weigh in within the designated time frame 
may result in the bout being cancelled. No pre-weight checks may be done on the official 
scale prior to or during the weigh in period. 
4. 
Participants missing weight during the initial one-hour period may be given an additional 
hour to make weight, provided that a Colorado licensed physician is present. The 
additional time shall start when the Director or Commission representative records the 
participants initial weight. 
F. 
FAILURE TO MAKE CONTRACTED WEIGHT 
A participant who at the scheduled time of weigh-in fails to meet the weight specified in the 
contract between the promoter and the participant may be disqualified from competing and may 
be subject to disciplinary action. 
G. 
PARTICIPANTS' APPEARANCE 
1. 
Participants shall not be permitted to have excessive petroleum jelly, grease or foreign 
substances on any part of their body. 
2. 
Participants’ hair shall be cut or arranged in such a manner as not to interfere with the 
participant’s vision. Hair may be secured using rubber bands or other banding devices 
but not hairpins or hairnets. The hair must be free of all hair styling products (e.g., 
mousse, gel, or spray). 
3. 
The Director or chief inspector shall determine whether head or facial hair (e.g., 
mustaches, goatees, sideburns) or hair length, or hair adornments (e.g. jewelry or other 
decorative items) presents any potential hazard to the safety of the participants, or may 
interfere with the supervision and conduct of the bout. The participant may not compete 
in the bout unless the circumstance creating the potential hazard or interference is 
corrected to the satisfaction of the Director or chief inspector. 
4. 
Participants are prohibited from wearing facial or body adornments such as earrings, 
jewelry or body piercing accessories during the bout.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
8 
5. 
Any non-approved objects on or about the body of the participant during the bout may 
disqualify the participant. 
H. 
APPROVED RING APPAREL 
1. 
Participants in an event shall prepare themselves with appropriate ring apparel for the 
sport as approved by an official. 
2. 
Male participants may be required to wear an abdominal guard, a protective cup, and 
have two pairs of trunks of contrasting color and shoes. 
3. 
Female participants must wear a short sleeved (above the elbow), or sleeveless, form-
fitting style top, breast protector, or sports bra. Loose fitting tops are a safety risk and 
shall not be permitted. Wrestling singlets are not permitted. Female competitors may also 
be required to have two pairs of trunks of contrasting color and shoes. 
I. 
MOUTHPIECE REQUIREMENTS / FOREIGN OBJECTS 
1. 
Participants are required to wear an approved, and properly fitted mouthpiece during 
competition. The round shall not begin without the proper placement of the mouthpiece. If 
the mouthpiece is dislodged during competition, the referee will call time and have the 
mouthpiece replaced at the first available opportunity, without interfering with the 
immediate action. Points may be deducted from the participant or the participant may be 
disqualified if the mouthpiece is purposely dislodged or if the mouthpiece continuously 
becomes dislodged. 
2. 
Participants must bring two approved and properly fitted mouth guards to the bout. 
3. 
Participants are prohibited from having any removable object other than the required 
mouthpiece in their mouth during competition. Participants are subject to inspection 
before, during or after a bout. Should the Director or chief inspector find any foreign 
object in a participant’s mouth, the participant may be subject to disciplinary action. 
J. 
HAND WRAP REQUIREMENTS 
1. 
Hand wraps shall be applied in the dressing room in the presence of a Commission 
representative. Unless a championship bout, a representative of a participant must 
request in writing at the weigh-in or prior, to witness the wrapping of the opponent's 
hands. 
2. 
White adhesive tape of no more than six feet and not over one and one-half inches wide 
can be placed directly on the hand to protect the hand near the wrist. The tape may cross 
the back of the hand but shall not extend within one inch of the knuckles when the hand 
is clenched in a fist. A single four-inch by four-inch white surgical pad or equivalent 
material must be approved by the Director or the chief inspector. 
3. 
If equivalent material is approved it must be folded in half and may be used on the 
knuckles of each hand for added protection and safety. 
4. 
Single strips of tape not wider than one-fourth inch and not longer than three inches may 
be placed between the knuckles in order to hold the white gauze in place.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
9 
5. 
Participants shall use soft white surgical bandage not over two inches wide and twenty 
yards in length, held in place by not more than six feet of white surgeon's adhesive tape 
to complete the wrappings for each hand. Bandages shall be adjusted in the dressing 
room in the presence of a Commission representative, who must sign across the back of 
the hand before gloves are secured on each participant. 
6. 
Approved tape/gauze of all brands may be allowed with Director approval. 
K. 
GLOVE REQUIREMENTS 
1. 
The participant or the second is responsible for ensuring that gloves are not twisted or 
manipulated in any way. If a glove breaks or a string becomes untied during the bout, the 
referee will instruct the timekeeper to take time out while the glove is corrected. All gloves 
will be checked by a Commission representative prior to the start of a bout and any 
snagged, torn, or unfit gloves will not be approved for competition. 
2. 
Participants must decide on the gloves the participant expects to use during the bout. 
After the Director or chief inspector approves the gloves, there shall not be any changes 
unless or until the gloves are damaged and/or deemed unusable. Any additional gloves 
must also be approved by the Director prior to their use. 
L. 
PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES 
All participants are prohibited from using any drugs, alcohol, or stimulants, which could either 
impair or enhance their fight performance. The consumption of any substance other than plain 
water is prohibited during the event. 
M. 
DELAY OF BOUTS 
Participants shall be ready to enter the ring, cage, or competition area immediately prior to the 
start of their bout. Any participant, corner person or promoter causing a delay of more than five 
minutes when called may be subject to disciplinary action. 
N. 
PARTICIPANTS DENIED PERMISSION TO FIGHT 
1. 
The Director may deny or suspend permission for a participant to fight due to: 
a. 
Medical or other non-disciplinary reasons as set forth in the “Professional Boxing 
Safety Act of 1996;” 
b. 
Administrative or other non-disciplinary actions imposed by another state 
regulatory body; or 
c. 
A determination by the Director that the participant is unfit to fight due to a 
physical or mental condition. 
2. 
Denials and suspensions for medical, administrative or other non-disciplinary reasons 
may be lifted when a participant furnishes proof: 
a. 
Of a sufficiently improved medical, physical, or mental health condition; or 
b. 
That a suspension was not, or is no longer, merited by the facts. 
3. 
The Director may consult with and report to the national record keeper all non-disciplinary 
medical and administrative denials or suspensions.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
10 
O. 
OUT OF STATE SUSPENSIONS 
The Commission may recognize and enforce any suspension ordered by another state or tribal 
Commission. Participants must provide verification of license status prior to a bout. Acceptable 
verification of license status includes but is not limited to a current official record approved by the 
Director showing that the participant is not on suspension or verification that the participant is not 
listed on the record keepers’ database. 
P. 
PARTICIPANTS WHO ENGAGE IN NON-SANCTIONED BOUTS 
1. 
Any participant who engages in a bout that is not sanctioned by a state or tribal athletic 
Commission will not be approved to compete in a sanctioned bout for a minimum of 30 
days from the date of the participant’s last non-sanctioned bout. The participant is 
responsible for obtaining a written clearance from any treating physician. 
2. 
Any participant who wishes to engage in a sanctioned bout within 30 days from the date 
of the participant’s last non-sanctioned bout must submit, within ten days of the non- 
sanctioned bout, written information that demonstrates that the non-sanctioned bout 
meets all the requirements set forth in these Rules for a similar type of bout. 
3. 
A participant who engages in a non- sanctioned bout while on suspension from a state or 
tribal athletic Commission may be required to provide written clearance from any treating 
physician before the participant is approved to compete. 
Q. 
ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS OF FEMALE PARTICIPANTS 
1. 
Pregnancy Test 
Participants shall submit a doctor’s written verification of a negative pregnancy test dated 
within seven days of a scheduled event. The cost of the test is the responsibility of the 
participant. 
1.6 
REQUIREMENTS 
This Rule is promulgated pursuant to section 12-110-107, C.R.S. 
A. 
NUMBER OF BOUTS 
The Director has the discretion to control and limit the number of bouts held in any one event. 
Bouts in which more than two participants appear in the ring or cage at the same time will not be 
approved. 
B. 
BOUT REVIEW 
The Director may refuse to permit a bout to proceed upon a determination that either or both 
participants should not compete because of one or more of the following factors: 
1. 
Skill level and ability of their opponent; 
2. 
Age disparity between opponents; 
3. 
Consecutive losses or wins on recent record; 
4. 
Fighting history, including recent TKO’ or KO’s;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
11 
5. 
Disqualifications and/or poor performances; 
6. 
Recent injuries; 
7. 
Failure to appear at any scheduled weigh-in or event; 
8. 
Failure to compete at any event; 
9. 
Request of a weight that may be unattainable given weight history, build, or physique; 
10. 
Failing to make weight; 
11. 
Lack of experience with consecutive rounds or bouts; 
12. 
Medical test results; 
13. 
Professional debut participants verification that they have trained for a minimum of 30 
days prior to bout approval; 
14. 
Recent positive drug or substance test or any known positive test result; 
15. 
Failure to submit to a drug test in any jurisdiction; 
16. 
Physical impairment(s), eye blindness, missing limb; 
17. 
Serious head or brain injury, trauma, impact or damage; 
18. 
Age and date of most recent bout; 
19. 
Overall physical and mental fitness; 
20. 
Any action by any athletic or combative sports Commission in any jurisdiction; 
21. 
History of bad faith or dealings with any promotions or Commissions; 
22. 
Not completing the bout requirements in a timely manner; 
23. 
Conduct that discredits or tends to discredit any sport regulated by the Commission in 
which the participant is competing; 
24. 
Any related Medical condition that affects a participants’ ability to fight. 
C. 
PRE-FIGHT PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS 
1. 
Participants must submit to a physical examination performed by a licensed physician 
and be declared fit to compete prior to the bout at a time approved by the Director. Any 
participant deemed to be unfit to participate by the licensed physician will not be 
permitted to compete. In such instances, the promoter will be notified immediately by the 
Director or the Chief Official. 
2. 
Promoters are responsible for providing a suitable place for Physicians to conduct the 
physical examinations. The Director may require additional medical tests prior to the 
weigh-in and must reject a participant for test results that are incomplete or unsatisfactory 
or deemed untimely prior to the weigh-in.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
12 
3. 
Examination Requirements 
Participants must submit to a complete physical examinations which must include, at a 
minimum, examinations of the following: weight, temperature, pulse (sitting and 
standing), lungs, blood pressure, heart, or communicable diseases, urine analysis (when 
deemed necessary), scrotal evidence of hernia, and general physical condition. See Rule 
2.16 for additional female participant examinations. 
D. 
MEDICAL TESTS AND RESULTS 
1. 
All participants must submit to acceptable HIV, Hepatitis B and Hepatitis C testing within 
a timeframe prescribed by the Director and must provide the negative results no later 
than 48 hours prior to weigh in. Exceptions may be made for substitutions as determined 
by the Director. The Director may on a case by case basis require additional medical 
tests for participants. 
2. 
All results must contain the participants name, date of birth, and collection date. 
3. 
Additional Test Requirements for Participants age 45 and Older. 
a. 
Participants age 45 and older who have not been routinely fighting in permitted 
events for the past five years must undergo the following additional tests or 
examinations. 
(1) 
General physical examination and Senior Athletes Fitness Examination 
(SAFE), to include a routine EKG and/or any other tests recommended 
by the physician. 
E. 
POST FIGHT SUSPENSIONS 
1. 
The ringside physician shall impose a medical suspension or a mandatory rest period on 
each participant after a bout. If the ringside physician imposes a suspension less than the 
minimum required under this rule, the Director shall increase the suspension to the 
minimum amount set forth in this rule. 
a. 
Mandatory minimum seven (7) day rest period for participants who have 
competed in a bout and have not suffered any physical injury or in bouts of three 
(3) to five (5) rounds, where no physical injury, based on the post-fight physical. 
b. 
Minimum twenty-one (21) day rest period for participants who have competed in 
bouts of six (6) to (9) rounds. 
c. 
Minimum thirty (30) day rest period for participants who have competed in bouts 
of ten (10) rounds or more. 
d. 
If a participant has incurred a technical knockout from blows to the head, a 
medical suspension for a period of not less than thirty (30) days. 
e. 
If a participant has incurred a knockout from blows to the head, a medical 
suspension for a period of not less than sixty (60) days. 
f. 
If a participant has suffered two (2) knockouts or technical knockouts from blows 
to the head within a six (6) month period, a medical suspension for a period of 
not less than sixty (60) days.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
13 
g. 
If a participant has suffered three (3) knockouts or technical knockouts from 
blows to the head within a one (1) year period, a medical suspension for a period 
of not less than one hundred and eighty (180) days. 
h. 
If a participant has suffered a technical knockout or the bout is stopped due to 
cuts, a medical suspension for a period of not less than thirty (30) days. 
1. 
The ringside physician or Director in consultation with a Commission appointed physician 
may impose an indefinite medical suspension which shall be removed only at the 
satisfaction and in consultation with a physician member appointed to the Commission 
upon subsequent medical examination. 
2. 
A participant shall not take part in any bout or sparring activities during the period of the 
medical suspension or mandatory rest period. 
3. 
All medical suspension and/or mandatory rest period suspension shall be documented on 
the appropriate Commission form. 
4. 
A participant may appeal a medical suspension to the Director by: 
a. 
Furnishing proof that the medical or physical condition has significantly improved; 
or 
b. 
Furnishing proof that the suspension was not, or is no longer, merited by facts. 
5. 
Prior to lifting any medical suspension, all provided documentation shall be reviewed by a 
Commission doctor who shall provide a recommendation, in writing, to lift the suspension. 
F. 
PARTICIPANTS NOT SAFE TO COMPETE 
Participants cannot safely engage or compete in a bout where there is the potential of an unfair 
advantage over their opponent. As such, if a participant has one or more medical conditions, the 
participant may not safely engage in combative sport activities and may not be permitted to 
compete. Such medical conditions will be reviewed by the Director after consultation with the 
licensed physician on a case by case basis. 
G. 
ADVANCED NOTIFICATION, RANDOM, OR FOR-CAUSE TESTING OF PARTICIPANTS 
1. 
Noticed Testing: All participants in bouts designated by the Director will be notified in 
advance that they will be tested for the use of any prohibited drugs, substances and 
methods identified by the World Anti-Doping Agency. If the Director determines that 
testing of the participants should occur, promoters may be verbally informed before the 
conclusion of the weigh-in. 
2. 
Random Testing: All participants scheduled to compete on any upcoming event are 
subject to random testing for the use of any prohibited drugs, substances and methods 
identified by the World Anti-Doping Agency. Random testing shall be conducted in 
accordance with a process established by the Director. 
3. 
For Cause Testing: If the Director has reason to believe that a participant scheduled to 
compete on any upcoming event may be under the influence of any prohibited drugs, 
substances and methods identified by the World Anti-Doping Agency, the Director may 
order testing of the participant to determine whether or not the participant has taken, 
used or ingested any drugs, substances and methods.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
14 
4. 
Mandatory Testing: Testing will be mandatory for participants in bouts determined by 
the Director to be championship bouts. 
5. 
All testing identified above shall be conducted at the discretion of the Director. In any 
bout which the Director believes the interest of a combative sport so require, the Director 
may order both participants submit to testing. 
6. 
Prohibited drugs, substances and methods: The Commission hereby adopts the 
edition, effective January 1, 2022, of the Prohibited List – International Standard 
published by the World Anti-Doping Agency. This Prohibited List is adopted to provide 
notice of this code to all participants. This Rule does not include later amendments to or 
editions of the Prohibited List of the World Anti-Doping Agency. 
Notwithstanding this rule, cannabinoids are not a prohibited substance. 
A copy of the Prohibited List published by the World Anti-Doping Agency is available for 
public inspection during regular business hours at the Commission office at the Division 
of Professions and Occupations, Department of Regulatory Agencies, 1560 Broadway, 
Suite 1350, Denver, Colorado,80202, and at any state publications depository and 
distribution center. For further information regarding how this material can be obtained or 
examined, contact the Director for the Commission at 1560 Broadway, Suite 1350, 
Denver, Colorado, 80202, 303-894-7800. The Prohibited List may be obtained, free of 
charge, at the Internet address www.wada-ama.org. Address: Stock Exchange Tower, 
800 Place Victoria (Suite 1700), PO Box 120, Montreal, Quebec H47 1B7, Canada. 
H. 
CHAMPIONSHIP BOUTS 
A bout shall not be advertised, promoted or called a championship bout unless it has the specific 
approval of the Commission. A promoter shall not advertise any participant in the State of 
Colorado as a champion or contender in any manner that is false or misleading. 
I. 
PROFESSIONAL-AMATEUR BOUTS PROHIBITED 
Bouts between professionals and amateurs are prohibited. Nothing in this Rule would prohibit 
combined Professional-Amateur Events. 
1.7 
DECLARATORY ORDERS 
This Rule is promulgated pursuant to sections 12-110-107 and 24-4-105(11), C.R.S., and establishes 
procedures for the handling of requests for declaratory orders. 
A. 
Any person or entity may petition the Commission for a declaratory order to terminate 
controversies or remove uncertainties as to the applicability of any statutory provision or of any 
Rule or order of the Commission. 
B. 
The Commission will determine, at its discretion and without notice to petitioner, whether to rule 
upon any such petition. If the Commission determines that it will not rule upon such a petition, the 
Commission shall promptly notify the petitioner of its action and state the reasons for such 
decision. 
C. 
In determining whether to rule upon a petition filed pursuant to this Rule, the Commission will 
consider the following matters, among others:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
15 
1. 
Whether a ruling on the petition will terminate a controversy or remove uncertainties as to 
the applicability to petitioner of any statutory provisions or rule or order of the 
Commission. 
2. 
Whether the petition involves any subject, question or issue that is the subject of a formal 
or informal matter or investigation currently pending before the Commission or a court 
involving one or more petitioners. 
3. 
Whether the petition involves any subject, question or issue that is the subject of a formal 
or informal matter or investigation currently pending before the Commission or a court but 
not involving any petitioner. 
4. 
Whether the petition seeks a ruling on a moot or hypothetical question or will result in an 
advisory ruling or opinion. 
5. 
Whether the petitioner has some other adequate legal remedy, other than an action for 
declaratory relief pursuant to the Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure 57, which will 
terminate the controversy or remove any uncertainty as to the applicability to the 
petitioner of the statute, rule or order in question. 
D. 
Any petition filed pursuant to this Rule shall set forth the following: 
1. 
The name and address of the petitioner and whether the petitioner is licensed pursuant to 
Title 12, Article 110. 
2. 
The statute, rule or order to which the petition relates. 
3. 
A concise statement of all of the facts necessary to show the nature of the controversy or 
uncertainty and the manner in which the statute, rule, or order in question applies or 
potentially applies to the petitioner. 
E. 
If the Commission determines that it will rule on the petition, the following procedures shall apply: 
1. 
The Commission may rule upon the petition based solely upon the facts presented in the 
petition. In such a case: 
a. 
Any ruling of the Commission will apply only to the extent of the facts presented 
in the petition and any amendment to the petition. 
b. 
The Commission may order the petitioner to file a written brief, memorandum or 
statement of position. 
c. 
The Commission may set the petition, upon due notice to petitioner, for a non-
evidentiary hearing. 
d. 
The Commission may dispose of the petition on the sole basis of the matters set 
forth in the petition. 
e. 
The Commission may request the petitioner to submit additional facts in writing. 
In such event, such additional facts will be considered as an amendment to the 
petition.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
16 
f. 
The Commission may take administrative notice of facts pursuant to the 
Administrative Procedure Act at section 24-4-105(8), C.R.S., and may utilize its 
experience, technical competence, and specialized knowledge in the disposition 
of the petition. 
2. 
If the Commission rules upon the petition without a hearing, it shall promptly notify the 
petitioner of its decision. 
3. 
The Commission may, at its discretion, set the petition for hearing, upon due notice to 
petitioner, for the purpose of obtaining additional facts or information or to determine the 
truth of any facts set forth in the petition or to hear oral argument on the petition. The 
notice to the petitioner shall set forth, to the extent known, the factual or other matters 
into which the Commission intends to inquire. 
4. 
For the purpose of such a hearing, to the extent necessary, the petitioner shall have the 
burden of proving all the facts stated in the petition; all of the facts necessary to show the 
nature of the controversy or uncertainty; and the manner in which the statute, rule, or 
order in question applies or potentially applies to the petitioner and any other facts the 
petitioner desires the Commission to consider. 
F. 
The parties to any proceeding pursuant to this Rule shall be the Commission and the petitioner. 
Any other person including the Director may seek leave of the Commission to intervene in such a 
proceeding and leave to intervene will be granted at the sole discretion of the Commission. A 
petition to intervene shall set forth the same matters as are required by Section 4.4 of this Rule. 
Any reference to a “petitioner” in this Rule also refers to any person who has been granted leave 
to intervene by the Commission. 
G. 
Any declaratory order or other order disposing of a petition pursuant to this Rule shall constitute 
agency action subject to judicial review pursuant to the Colorado Administrative Procedures Act 
at section 24-4-106, C.R.S. 
1.8 
REQUIREMENTS FOR BOXING PARTICIPANTS 
This Rule is promulgated pursuant to section 12-110-107, C.R.S. 
A. 
WEIGHT ALLOWANCES 
Before a participant will be permitted to fight an opponent, who exceeds the weight allowance as 
shown, the participant must first receive approval by the Director:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
17 
 
POUNDS 
CLASSIFICATION 
ALLOWANCE 
191+ 
Heavyweight 
No limit 
176-190 
Cruiserweight 
15 lbs. 
169-175 
Light Heavyweight 
8 lbs. 
161-168 
Super Middleweight 
8 lbs. 
155-160 
Middleweight 
7 lbs. 
148-154 
Junior Middleweight 
7 lbs. 
141-147 
Welterweight 
7 lbs. 
136-140 
Junior Welterweight 
5 lbs. 
131-135 
Lightweight 
5 lbs. 
127-130 
Junior Lightweight 
5 lbs. 
123-126 
Featherweight 
5 lbs. 
119-122 
Junior Featherweight 
5 lbs. 
116-118 
Bantamweight 
5 lbs. 
113-115 
Junior Bantamweight 
5 lbs. 
109-112 
Flyweight 
5 lbs. 
106-108 
Junior Flyweight 
5 lbs. 
Below 105 
Minimum Weight 
5 lbs. 
B. 
NUMBER AND DURATION OF ROUNDS 
A bout will have a maximum of ten rounds with the exception of a championship bout, as 
determined by the Director, which may not exceed twelve rounds. Three minutes will constitute a 
round, with a rest period of one minute between rounds, which may be extended at the discretion 
of the Director. The timekeeper shall give warning to the seconds by suitable signal ten seconds 
before the beginning or the ending of each round. 
Notwithstanding this rule and with prior Director approval, three-minute rounds shall constitute a 
round for all female bouts. 
C. 
PARTICIPATION RESTRICTIONS 
Any participant, who has participated in a bout scheduled for four or more rounds, shall not 
participate in another bout for at least seven days unless specifically authorized by the Director. 
D. 
RING OCCUPANTS 
No person other than the participants and the referee shall enter the ring during the rounds. 
Between rounds, one corner and/or cutperson may be inside the ring and the others on the ring 
apron. The licensed physician may enter the ring if asked by the referee. No participant shall 
leave the ring during any rest period between rounds. The referee may, at their discretion, stop a 
bout if an unauthorized person enters the ring during a round. The Director or chief inspector may 
also limit unauthorized people from entering the ring at any time during and after an event. 
E. 
INTENTIONAL FOULS 
1. 
If an intentional foul causes an injury, and the injury is severe enough to immediately 
terminate a bout, the participant causing the injury shall lose by disqualification. 
2. 
If an intentional foul causes an injury, and the bout is allowed to continue, the referee will 
notify the authorities and deduct two points from the participant who caused the foul. 
Point deductions for intentional fouls will be mandatory.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
18 
3. 
If an intentional foul causes an injury that results in the bout being stopped in a later 
round, the injured participant shall win by Technical Decision if the recipient of an 
intentional foul is ahead on the score cards. If the injured participant is behind or even on 
the score cards, the bout will result in a Technical Draw. 
4. 
If a participant injures themselves while attempting to intentionally foul their opponent, the 
referee will not take any action in their favor, and this injury is the same as one produced 
by a fair blow. If a participant has conducted themselves in an unsportsmanlike manner, 
the referee may stop the bout and disqualify the participant. 
F. 
UNINTENTIONAL FOULS 
1. 
If an unintentional foul causes an injury severe enough to immediately stop the bout 
before three completed rounds or four complete rounds for a championship bouts, the 
bout will result in a No Contest. 
2. 
If an unintentional foul causes an injury severe enough to immediately stop the bout after 
three completed rounds and four rounds for championship bouts have occurred, the bout 
will result in a Technical Decision awarded to the participant who is ahead on the score 
cards at the time the bout is stopped. Partial or incomplete rounds will be scored. 
3. 
If the judge(s) believes that a participant did not engage in any action, the round should 
be scored as an even round at the discretion of the judges. A fighter who is hit with an 
accidental low blow must continue after a reasonable amount of time but no more than 
five minutes or the participant will lose the bout by Technical Knockout (TKO). 
G. 
TACTICS DEEMED FOULS 
1. 
Hitting below the belt or after the bell has terminated the round; 
2. 
Hitting an opponent who is down or who is getting up after being down; 
3. 
Holding an opponent or deliberately maintaining a clinch; 
4. 
Holding an opponent with one hand and hitting with the other hand; 
5. 
Butting with the head or shoulder or using a knee; 
6. 
Hitting with the glove laces or the heal of the hand, the wrist, or elbow and any back-hand 
blows; 
7. 
Hitting or flicking with an open glove, or thumbing; 
8. 
Wrestling, hitting on the break or pushing an opponent; 
9. 
Spitting out the mouthpiece or going down without being hit; 
10. 
Striking deliberately the part of the body over the kidneys; 
11. 
Use of a pivot or rabbit punch; 
12. 
Hitting an opponent during intervention by the referee; 
13. 
Hitting an opponent who is entangled in the ropes;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
19 
14. 
Biting or any unsportsmanlike conduct; 
15. 
Abusive or profane language; 
16. 
Failure to obey the referee; 
17. 
Any physical action which may injure a participant, except by fair sportsmanlike boxing; 
and 
18. 
Passive defense by means of double cover. 
H. 
PENALTY FOR FOULS 
1. 
The referee may penalize a participant if they commit a foul. 
2. 
Points may be deducted from the participant’s score in the round or rounds such foul 
occurred. The referee shall notify the judges at the time of the foul and verify between 
rounds of the points deducted. 
3. 
If a foul is of a serious nature, intentionally inflicted, or is continuous or repeated. The 
referee may award the bout to the participant who is fouled. 
I. 
DETERMINATION OF A KNOCKDOWN 
1. 
A knockdown will be ruled when a participant is hit with the padded knuckle part of the 
glove on the front or side of the head or the front or side of the body above the belt, and 
any part of the participant’s body other than feet falls to the floor; or the participant is 
hanging over the ropes without the ability to protect himself or herself and cannot fall to 
the floor. 
2. 
A referee may count a participant out if the participant is on the floor or is being held up 
by the ropes. 
J. 
REFEREE COUNT 
1. 
If a participant falls due to fatigue, or is knocked down by their opponent, the participant 
will be allowed ten seconds to rise unassisted. When such participant falls, their 
opponent shall go to the farthest neutral corner and remain there while the count is made. 
2. 
A participant shall be deemed down when any part of their body other than their feet is on 
the floor, or the participant is being held up by the ropes. A referee may count a 
participant out either on the ropes or on the floor. 
3. 
The referee shall stop counting should the opponent fail to go to the neutral corner, and 
will resume the count where the participant left off when the opponent goes to the neutral 
corner. 
4. 
Should a participant who is down rise before the count of ten is reached, and goes back 
down immediately without being struck by the opponent, the referee shall resume the 
count where it was left off. 
5. 
Before a participant resumes after having been knocked, fallen or slipped to the floor, the 
referee shall wipe any accumulated debris from the participant's gloves.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
20 
6. 
When a mouthpiece is knocked out, the referee may allow the exchange to continue until 
there is a break in the action. Timeout shall be called and the mouthpiece rinsed and 
replaced. 
K. 
PARTICIPANT’S RETURN TO RING 
1. 
A participant shall receive a twenty second count if they are knocked out of the ring and 
onto the floor by a legal strike. The participant is to be unassisted by the second(s). If 
assisted by the second(s), the participant shall be disqualified. 
2. 
A participant who has been wrestled, pushed, or has fallen through the ropes during a 
contest may be helped back by anyone and the referee shall allow reasonable time for 
the return. 
3. 
When on the ring apron outside the ropes, the participant shall enter the ring 
immediately. 
4. 
Should the participant stall for time outside the ropes, the referee shall start the count 
without waiting for the participant to reenter the ring. 
5. 
When one participant has fallen through the ropes, the other participant shall retire to a 
designated corner and remain there until ordered to continue the bout. 
6. 
A participant who deliberately wrestles or throws an opponent from the ring, or who 
punches their opponent when they are partly out of the ring and prevented by the ropes 
from assuming a position of defense may be penalized, disqualified, and subject to 
disciplinary action. 
L. 
SAVED BY THE BELL 
A participant who has been knocked down cannot be saved by the bell in any round. 
M. 
THREE KNOCKDOWNS IN THE SAME ROUND – TKO 
The contest may be stopped at any time by the referee to protect the health and safety of either 
participant. A participant who has been ruled by the referee to have been knocked down three 
times in the same round shall lose by TKO. The three-knockdown rule may be waived at the sole 
discretion of the Director. 
N. 
BOUT TERMINATION DUE TO INJURY - TKO 
If a participant sustains an injury from a fair blow and the injury is severe enough to terminate the 
bout, the injured participant will lose by TKO. 
O. 
KNOCKDOWN EIGHT COUNT 
1. 
In the case of a knockdown, the eight count is mandatory. A participant who is knocked 
out, or is technically knocked out shall be suspended for a minimum of thirty days from 
participating in any event. 
1.9 
REQUIREMENT FOR PROFESSIONAL KICKBOXING AND MUAY THAI PARTICIPANTS 
This Rule is promulgated pursuant to section 12-110-107, C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
21 
A. 
CONDUCT OF KICKBOXING AND MUAY THAI EVENTS – RULES AND PROCEDURES 
The Commission adopts by reference the Association of Boxing Commissions and Combative 
Unified Rules of Professional Kickboxing (https://www.abcboxing.com/unified-rules-kickboxing/ 
(effective July 26, 2017)). 
The standards and regulations incorporated by reference may be examined at the Colorado 
Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission, 1560 Broadway, Suite 
1350, Denver, Colorado 80202, during normal business hours, Monday through Friday, except 
when such days are state holidays. Certified copies of the incorporated standards shall be 
provided at cost upon request. The Director or the Director’s designee will provide information 
regarding how the incorporated standards and regulations may be examined at any state public 
depository library. The standards and regulations are also available from the agency, organization 
or association originally issuing the code, standard, guideline or rules as follows: Association of 
Boxing Commissions and Combative Sports (https://www.abcboxing.com/wp-
content/uploads/2024/07/unified-mma-rules-rev-july-2024.pdf (effective November 1, 2024)) and 
the Association of Boxing Commissions and Combative Sports 
(https://www.abcboxing.com/unified- rules-kickboxing (effective July 26, 2017)). This rule does 
not include any later amendments or editions of the code, standard, guideline, or rules. 
B. 
PROFESSIONAL MUAY THAI SCORING 
1. 
Points will be awarded whenever the athlete strikes the opponent by Muay Thai skills 
such as punching, kicking, kneeing, elbowing with force that lands on target with no 
infringement (i.e., not being blocked). 
2. 
Ten (10) points shall be awarded for each round and no fraction of a point may be given. 
The better more skilled athlete shall be awarded ten (10) points and the opponent less. 
3. 
The steps for forwarding points shall be as follows: 
a. 
An athlete wins the round when striking using more Muay Thai skill than their 
opponent; 
b. 
An athlete wins the round when using a more forceful Muay Thai weapon than 
the opponent; 
c. 
An athlete wins the round when showing less exhaustion than the opponent; 
d. 
An athlete wins the round when showing more effect than their opponent; 
e. 
An athlete wins the round when using superior and more diverse Muay Thai skill 
than the opponent; or 
f. 
An athlete wins the round when having less infringement of the rules that their 
opponent. 
4. 
The non-awarding of points shall be as follows: 
a. 
Strikes that lack Muay Thai skill; 
b. 
Strikes that are blocked by the opponents arms or legs; 
c. 
Striking with lack of force even when those techniques have landed on target;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
22 
d. 
Striking while infringing the rules. 
C. 
TACTICS DEEMED FOULS 
The following shall be deemed fouls for Muay Thai: 
1. 
Head-butts, biting, or pressing on the opponents eyes with the thumb of the glove; 
2. 
Striking the groin; 
3. 
Attacking while holding the ropes or making any unfair use of the ropes; 
4. 
Striking on the break; 
5. 
Holding the opponent’s leg and pushing more than two (2) steps in any direction without 
striking with any one of the Muay Thai skills; commonly referred to as “plowing;” 
6. 
Intentionally falling down to avoid being hit while leg is held by the opponent; 
7. 
Throwing or taking an opponent to the floor in an unauthorized manner by bending the 
lower back of opponent or lifting up the opponent; 
8. 
Straight line attacks that target the knee joint; 
9. 
Sweeps not done with the front of the shin or foot-to-foot. Hooking the back or the side of 
the leg is prohibited; 
10. 
Intentional evasion of contact; 
11. 
Holding the back of the head with one hand and punching with the other hand; commonly 
referred to as “dirty boxing;” and 
12. 
Executing any techniques which are deemed malicious and beyond the scope of 
reasonably accepted techniques in an athletic event. 
D. 
KNOCKDOWNS AND EIGHT COUNTS 
1. 
In the event of a knockdown, an eight (8) count is mandatory. 
2. 
A mandatory eight (8) count shall also be given when a participant blocks, for a sustained 
time, knees with one (1) or both arms folded across the abdomen or chest. 
3. 
If a participant is knocked down three (3) times in a round and those knockdowns require 
an eight (8) count, the fight shall be stopped and declared a technical knockout. 
4. 
If a participant is knocked out, or technically knocked out in two (2) consecutive bouts, 
the participant shall be suspended for a minimum of sixty (60) days from participating in 
any activity. 
5. 
If a participant is knocked out or technically knocked out in three (3) consecutive bouts, 
the participant may be suspended for a minimum of one (1) year from participating in any 
activity.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
23 
6. 
The Director may require the suspended participant to undergo other medical 
examinations and submit proof of such examinations and physician clearance to compete 
in any future bouts. 
E. 
WEIGHT ALLOWANCES 
Before a participant will be permitted to fight an opponent, who exceeds the weight allowance as 
shown, the participant must first receive approval by the Director: 
 
POUNDS 
CLASSIFICATION 
ALLOWANCE 
191+ 
Heavyweight 
No limit 
176-190 
Cruiserweight 
15 lbs. 
169-175 
Light Heavyweight 
8 lbs. 
161-168 
Super Middleweight 
8 lbs. 
155-160 
Middleweight 
7 lbs. 
148-154 
Junior Middleweight 
7 lbs. 
141-147 
Welterweight 
7 lbs. 
136-140 
Junior Welterweight 
5 lbs. 
131-135 
Lightweight 
5 lbs. 
127-130 
Junior Lightweight 
5 lbs. 
123-126 
Featherweight 
5 lbs. 
119-122 
Junior Featherweight 
5 lbs. 
116-118 
Bantamweight 
5 lbs. 
113-115 
Junior Bantamweight 
5 lbs. 
109-112 
Flyweight 
5 lbs. 
106-108 
Junior Flyweight 
5 lbs. 
Below 105 
Minimum Weight 
5 lbs. 
No participant shall engage in a bout where the weight difference exceeds the allowance shown 
above. Any greater weight allowance requires the Director approval. 
1.10 
REQUIREMENTS FOR PROFESSIONAL MIXED MARTIAL ARTS (MMA) AND MARTIAL 
ARTS (MA) PARTICIPANTS 
This Rule is promulgated pursuant to section 12-110-107, C.R.S. 
A. 
RULES AND PROCEDURES 
The Commission adopts by reference the Association of Boxing Commissions and Combative 
Sports Unified Rules of Mixed Martial Arts (https://www.abcboxing.com/wp-
content/uploads/2022/08/unified-rules-mma-july-2022.pdf (effective July 26, 2022)).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
24 
The standards and regulations incorporated by reference may be examined at the Colorado 
Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission, 1560 Broadway, Suite 
1350, Denver, Colorado 80202, during normal business hours, Monday through Friday, except 
when such days are state holidays. Certified copies of the incorporated standards shall be 
provided at cost upon request. The Director or the Director’s designee will provide information 
regarding how the incorporated standards and regulations may be examined at any state public 
depository library. The standards and regulations are also available from the agency, organization 
or association originally issuing the code, standard, guideline or rules as follows: Association of 
Boxing Commissions and Combative Sports (https://www.abcboxing.com/wp-
content/uploads/2024/07/unified-mma-rules-rev-july-2024.pdf (effective November 1, 2024)) and 
the Association of Boxing Commissions and Combative Sports 
(https://www.abcboxing.com/unified- rules-kickboxing (effective July 26, 2017)). This rule does 
not include any later amendments or editions of the code, standard, guideline, or rules. 
B. 
MARTIAL ARTS 
1. 
A contest or bout of martial arts must be conducted pursuant to the official rules 
promulgated by the sponsoring organization for the martial art. 
2. 
The promoter must file a copy of the official rules and a permit with the Director before 
approval will be given for the contest to be held. 
3. 
Prior to the event, the Director will provide the promotor a list of specific requirements, 
including those concerning fouls. The promoter will be responsible for ensuring that all 
participants comply with the specific requirements. 
4. 
Where applicable, provisions of Rules 1.8, 1.9, and above sections of Rule 1.10 may also 
constitute requirements for martial arts contests. 
1.11 
REQUIREMENTS FOR BAREKNUCKLE PARTICIPANTS 
The Rule is promulgated pursuant to section 12-110-107, C.R.S. 
A. 
WEIGHT ALLOWANCES 
1. 
Before a participant will be permitted to fight an opponent, who exceeds the weight 
allowance as shown, the participant must first receive written or email approval by the 
Director: 
 
POUNDS 
CLASSIFICATION 
ALLOWANCE 
266+ 
Super Heavyweight 
No limit 
226-265 
Heavyweight 
10 lbs. 
206-225 
Cruiserweight 
7 lbs. 
186-205 
Middle Heavyweight 
7 lbs. 
176-185 
Light Heavyweight 
7 lbs. 
166-175 
Super Middleweight 
7 lbs. 
156-165 
Middleweight 
7 lbs. 
146-155 
Welterweight 
5 lbs. 
136-145 
Lightweight 
5 lbs. 
126-135 
Featherweight 
5 lbs. 
116-125 
Bantanweight 
5 lbs. 
108-115 
Flyweight 
3 lbs. 
100-107 
Strawweight 
3 lbs.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
25 
B. 
NUMBER AND DURATION OF ROUNDS 
1. 
A bout shall only have a maximum of five rounds. Two minutes will constitute a round, 
with a rest period of one minute between rounds. 
2. 
With prior Director approval, a bout ending in a draw at the end of the final round may 
continue to an additional round. 
3. 
At no time shall an entire bareknuckle fight exceed 12 minutes, excluding any between 
round rest periods. 
C. 
PARTICIPATION RESTRICTIONS 
1. 
All Bouts shall be placed in the appropriate Federal database for tracking. Prior to 
approving a bout, the Director shall consider the following: 
a. 
Fighter’s Professional Record 
b. 
Combative Sport Experience 
c. 
Skill Level 
d. 
Physical Condition 
e. 
Current BSI assigned in BoxRec 
f. 
Successive losses or wins 
g. 
History of technical knockouts or knockouts 
h. 
Any other factor the Director reasonably believes is appropriate. 
2. 
Professional Debut Participants shall not enter a bareknuckle bout without prior 
combative sports experience. 
3. 
Professional debut participants shall be restricted to four rounds until participants have at 
least four professional bouts in a sport regulated by the Commission. 
4. 
Professional Participants with previous experience in boxing, mixed martial arts, or other 
Combative Sports regulated by the Commission are not considered Professional Debut 
Participants and can participate in any number of rounds without restriction. 
5. 
Elimination fighters shall be prohibited from participating in any bareknuckle bout. 
D. 
RING OCCUPANTS 
1. 
No person other than the participants and the referee shall enter the ring during a bout. 
Between rounds, one corner or cut person may be inside the ring and the others on the 
ring apron. The licensed physician may enter the ring if asked by the referee. No 
participant shall leave the ring during any rest period between rounds. The referee may, 
at their discretion, stop a bout if an unauthorized person enters the ring during a round. 
The Director or chief inspector may also limit unauthorized people from entering the ring 
at any time during and after an event.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
26 
E. 
ATTIRE 
1. 
Male participants shall not wear any form of clothing on the upper body. Upper body 
clothing worn by female participants must be form fitting and not loose. 
2. 
All participants shall wear appropriate shorts, boxing shoes and mouthpiece. 
3. 
Hair shall be secured in a manner that does not interfere with the vision or safety of any 
participant. 
4. 
The wearing of jewelry is prohibited. 
F. 
HAND WRAPS AND MOUTHPIECE 
1. 
Hand wraps shall consist of no more than 12 yards of soft gauze bandage per hand, no 
more than two inches in width held in place by not more than 10 yards of surgical tape of 
one inch in width. 
2. 
No tape or gauze will extend past the fighter’s knuckle when clenched in a fist. 
3. 
No tape or gauze is permitted between or on the fighter’s fingers, except for the thumb 
which may include a single wrap of tape when the wrist is wrapped. 
4. 
The wrapping of the wrist shall not extend more than three inches past the wrist juncture. 
5. 
Participants are required to wear a mouthpiece and no bout may begin without one. 
G. 
JOINT AND BODY COVERINGS 
1. 
Other than the participant’s hands, there shall be no taping, covering, or protective gear 
allowed on any upper portion of the body. 
2. 
A participant may use a soft neoprene-type sleeve to cover only the knees. Approved 
sleeves may not have padding, velcro, plastic, metal, ties or other material considered 
unsafe. 
H. 
RING REQUIREMENTS 
Bareknuckle bouts shall only take place in a ring approved by the Director. 
I. 
TACTICS DEEMED FOULS 
1. 
Hitting the opponent below the belt, 
2. 
Hitting an opponent who is down or is getting up after being down, 
3. 
Maintaining the clinch without action, 
4. 
Wrestling or kicking an opponent, 
5. 
Putting a finger into an orifice or laceration of an opponent, including fish hooking, 
6. 
Pulling an opponent’s hair, 
7. 
Manipulating the opponent’s finger(s),

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
27 
8. 
Striking an opponent who is helpless as the result of blows but is supported by the ropes 
but does not fall, 
9. 
Butting the opponent with the head, shoulder, knee or elbow, 
10. 
Hitting the opponent with the elbow or forearm, 
11. 
Striking the opponent’s body over the kidney, 
12. 
Hitting the opponent on the back of the head or neck, 
13. 
Gouging an opponent’s eyes, 
14. 
Hitting on the break, signaled by the Referee or physical act to separate, 
15. 
Hitting an opponent after the bell, 
16. 
Using the ropes to gain an advantage over an opponent, 
17. 
Pushing the opponent around the fighting area or into the ropes, 
18. 
Timidity, excessive clinching, including intentionally spitting out the mouthpiece, 
19. 
Biting the opponent, 
20. 
Headlocks 
21. 
Throat punches or striking, including directing strikes towards the throat, 
22. 
Fingers outstretched toward opponent’s eyes or face, 
23. 
Throws or takedowns, 
24. 
Spinning backfists, 
25. 
Hammer fists, 
26. 
Any conduct that poses a danger to the safety or either participant, impedes fair and 
competitive play or is unsportsmanlike. 
J. 
PENALTY FOR FOULS 
1. 
The referee may penalize a participant if they commit a foul. 
2. 
Points may be deducted from the participant’s score in the round or rounds such foul 
occurred. The referee shall notify the judges at the time of the foul and verify between 
rounds of the points deducted. 
3. 
If a foul is of a serious nature, intentionally inflicted, or is continuous or repeated. The 
referee may award the bout to the participant who is fouled.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
28 
K. 
DETERMINATION OF KNOCKDOWN 
A knockdown will be ruled when a participant’s body touches the mat other than the sole of their feet 
following a legal strike or is defenselessly hanging on/over the ropes, preventing the body from falling to 
the mat. 
L. 
REFEREE COUNT 
1. 
If a participant falls due to fatigue, or is knocked down by their opponent, the participant 
will be allowed ten seconds to rise unassisted. When such participant falls, their 
opponent shall go to the farthest neutral corner and remain there while the count is made. 
2. 
The referee shall stop counting should the opponent fail to go to the neutral corner and 
will resume the count where the participant left off when the opponent goes to the neutral 
corner. 
3. 
Should a participant who is down rise before the count of ten is reached and goes back 
down immediately without being struck by the opponent, the referee shall resume the 
count where it was left off. 
4. 
Before a participant resumes after having been knocked, fallen, or slipped to the floor, the 
referee shall wipe any accumulated debris from the participant's gloves. 
5. 
When a mouthpiece is knocked out, the referee may allow the exchange to continue until 
there is a break in the action. Timeout shall be called and the mouthpiece rinsed and 
replaced. 
6. 
There is no standing eight count. 
M. 
PARTICIPANT'S RETURN TO THE RING 
1. 
A participant shall receive a twenty second count if they are knocked out of the ring and 
onto the floor by a legal strike. The participant is to be unassisted by the corner(s). If 
assisted by the corner(s), the participant shall be disqualified. 
2. 
A participant who has been wrestled, pushed, or has fallen through the ropes during a 
contest may be helped back by anyone and the referee shall allow reasonable time for 
the return. 
3. 
When on the ring apron outside the ropes, the participant shall enter the ring 
immediately. 
4. 
Should the participant stall for time outside the ropes, the referee shall start the count 
without waiting for the participant to reenter the ring. 
5. 
When one participant has fallen through the ropes, the other participant shall retire to a 
designated corner and remain there until ordered to continue the bout. 
6. 
A participant who deliberately wrestles or throws an opponent from the ring, or who 
punches their opponent when they are partly out of the ring and prevented by the ropes 
from assuming a position of defense may be penalized, disqualified, and subject to 
disciplinary action.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
29 
N. 
SAVED BY THE BELL 
1. 
A participant who has been knocked down cannot be saved by the bell in any round. 
O. 
BOUT TERMINATION DUE TO INJURY – TKO 
1. 
If a participant sustains an injury from a fair blow and the injury is severe enough to 
terminate the bout, the injured participant will lose by TKO. 
P. 
THREE KNOCKDOWNS IN A ROUND 
1. 
The contest shall be stopped by the referee to protect the health and safety of either 
participant. A participant who has been ruled by the referee to have been knocked down 
three times in the same round shall lose by TKO. 
Q. 
SCORING 
1. 
Judges shall score a bout based on the 10 point must system. 
2. 
Judges shall evaluate the bout based on a priority-based system as follows: 
a. 
Effective Striking based on impact/effect of legal strikes landed by a fighter, 
b. 
Effective Aggressiveness based on a fighter’s attempts to finish a fight, 
c. 
Control of the Fighting Area based on determining who is controlling the bout’s 
pace, place, and position. 
3. 
Rounds shall be scored as follows: 
a. 
10-9 Round – Fighter won the round by a close of moderate margin, 
b. 
10-8 Round – Fighter won the round by a highly decisive margin (absent a 
knockdown), 
c. 
10-8 Round – Fighter won the round and scored a knockdown, 
d. 
10-7 Round – Fighter won the round and scored two knockdowns, 
e. 
10-6 Round - Fighter won the round and scored three knockdowns. 
4. 
Partial or incomplete rounds shall be scored. 
R. 
DECISIONS 
A fighter may win a bout in the following manner: 
1. 
Technical Knockout (TKO), 
2. 
Knockout (KO), 
3. 
Disqualification, 
4. 
Draw,

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
30 
5. 
No Contest – No Contest decision shall be rendered for bout that has not completed half 
of the scheduled rounds plus one second when stopped, including for an accidental foul 
causing injury that does not allow a fighter to continue. 
6. 
Technical Decision – Technical Decision shall be rendered for a bout that has completed 
half of the scheduled rounds plus one second when stopped due to an accidental clash of 
heads, eye poke, low blow or any other unintentional foul that causes a fighter not being 
able to continue. 
S. 
ADDITIONAL PHYSICIAN REQUIREMENTS 
1. 
In addition to the assigned Colorado licensed ringside physician, an additional Colorado 
licensed Physician, Advanced Practice Nurse or Physician Assistant, shall be present 
that allows for timely on-site laceration repair. 
T. 
These rules shall not apply to promotions sanctioned under Commission Rule 1.4(H). 
1.12 
REQUIREMENTS FOR CORNERS 
This Rule is promulgated pursuant to sections 12-20-105, 12-110-107, 12-110-109, and 12-110-111, 
C.R.S. 
A. 
LICENSE FOR CORNERS 
A license is required in order to serve as a second in a professional combative sports contest. All 
corners shall submit an application for a license to assist a fighter and must be licensed at least 
48 hours prior to the scheduled start of an event. Incomplete or incorrect application forms will not 
be accepted and will be returned to the applicant to be corrected. 
B. 
FEES 
Each applicant applying for a license shall pay the required fee before the license is granted. The 
license fee schedule is established by the Division Director pursuant to section 12-20-105, C.R.S. 
C. 
MINIMUM AGE REQUIREMENT 
No person under the age of eighteen years shall be licensed to act as a second. 
D. 
EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS 
Corners are required to provide all materials and equipment necessary to conduct themselves as 
a second. Such equipment includes water buckets, gauze and tape for hand wraps, spit buckets, 
scissors, towels, petroleum jelly, enswell, q-tips, mouthpieces and cut solutions. Water bottles 
must be clear and all hand wrapping materials must be white. 
E. 
NUMBER OF CORNERS 
1. 
Unless special permission is given by the Director, the number of corners shall not 
exceed three, one of whom will announce to the referee at the start of the bout that they 
are the chief corner. The Director may reduce the number of corners per bout or event. 
2. 
If at any time during a bout there are more corners in a corner than allowed, the bout may 
be stopped until corrected or the chief corner may be disqualified and may be subject to 
disciplinary action.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
31 
F. 
ENTERING THE RING OR CAGE 
Only one corner shall be inside the ring or cage between rounds. The other(s) may be on the ring 
platform outside the ropes. Corners shall not enter the ring until the time keeper indicates the 
termination of the round and they shall leave when the timekeeper gives the ten second warning 
before the beginning of each round. If the chief corner or another corner enters the ring before the 
round ends, the participant may be disqualified and the violator may be subject to disciplinary 
action. If there are two entrances to a cage, two corners may be in the cage at the same time. 
G. 
CHIEF CORNER 
The chief corner of a participant may stand on the ring or cage apron and attract the attention of 
the referee in order to end the bout. The chief corner shall not enter the ring unless the referee 
stops the bout and shall not interfere with a count that is in progress. 
H. 
COACHING DURING A BOUT 
While the bout is in progress, a corner shall not excessively coach a participant during a round 
and shall remain seated and silent when directed by the referee or a Commission representative. 
Corners shall not place or cause any items to be placed inside the ring or cage during a bout. 
They shall not continuously stand, lean or pound on the ring apron during the round. Excessive 
coaching may lead to point deductions, ejection from the venue, or subject to other disciplinary 
action. 
I. 
USE OF ICE/WATER AND SUBSTANCES TO STOP HEMORRHAGING 
1. 
A participant may be refreshed with a wet sponge or spray mist bottle that only contains 
water. 
2. 
Excess water or ice on the ring or cage floor shall be wiped off immediately by the 
corners. 
3. 
Water discharged from the participant’s mouth shall be caught in a bucket or other device 
furnished for that purpose. 
4. 
A participant may not be given any stimulant. 
5. 
Before leaving the ring or cage at the start of each round, the seconds shall remove all 
obstructions such as buckets, stools, bottles, towels and robes from the ring or cage 
floor. 
6. 
If a participant is cut, a solution of adrenaline 1/1000, aventine, and thrombin can be used 
to heal the cut. 
7. 
No other bottle or container shall be allowed or used in the corners during a bout. Any 
other solution or substance is prohibited. 
J. 
APPAREL AND SUBJECT TO SEARCHES 
Corners shall be neatly dressed while working the participant's corner and may be searched by a 
Commission representative for illegal substances or objects.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
32 
1.13 
REQUIREMENTS FOR PROMOTERS 
This Rule is promulgated pursuant to sections 12-20-105, 12-110-107, 12-110-109, and 12-110-111, 
C.R.S. 
A. 
LICENSE REQUIRED 
1. 
A license is required for a promoter of a professional combative sport contest. Promoters 
shall apply for a license by submitting an application in the manner prescribed by the 
Director and must be licensed prior to the applying for a permit. Incomplete or incorrect 
applications will not be accepted. 
2. 
Promoters are responsible for ensuring that all participants and seconds are licensed and 
all applicable fees are paid for each event. 
B. 
FEES 
1. 
Each applicant for a license or permit shall pay the required fees before the license or 
permit is granted and based on an event with no more than 14 bouts. The license and 
permit fee schedules are established by the Division Director pursuant to section 12-20-
105, C.R.S. 
2. 
Promoters shall compensate officials based on geographical location and anticipated 
gross ticket sales as follows: 
a. 
Area A (Denver Metro): 
 
Gross Ticket Sales 
Chief 
Inspector 
Referee 
Judges 
All Other 
Officials 
0-$50,000 
$475.00  
$350.00  
$325.00  
$300.00  
$50,000-$100,000 
$575.00  
$400.00  
$350.00  
$325.00  
$100,000 AND 
ABOVE 
$775.00  
$650.00  
$525.00  
$500.00  
b. 
Area B (Castle Rock, Fort Collins, Colorado Springs, Greeley, Blackhawk): 
 
Gross Ticket Sales 
Chief 
Inspector 
Referee 
Judges 
All Other 
Officials 
0-$50,000 
$495.00  
$370.00  
$345.00  
$320.00  
$50,000-$100,000 
$595.00  
$420.00  
$370.00  
$345.00  
$100,000 AND 
ABOVE 
$795.00  
$670.00  
$545.00  
$520.00  
c. 
Area C (Pueblo, Vail: 
 
Gross Ticket Sales 
Chief 
Inspector 
Referee 
Judges 
All Other 
Officials 
0-$50,000 
$515.00  
$390.00  
$365.00  
$340.00  
$50,000-$100,000 
$615.00  
$440.00  
$390.00  
$365.00  
$100,000 AND 
ABOVE 
$715.00  
$690.00  
$565.00  
$540.00

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
33 
d. 
Area D (Grand Junction, Glenwood Springs, Alamosa): 
 
Gross Ticket Sales 
Chief 
Inspector 
Referee 
Judges 
All Other 
Officials 
0-$50,000 
$535.00  
$410.00  
$385.00  
$360.00  
$50,000-$100,000 
$635.00  
$460.00  
$410.00  
$385.00  
$100,000 AND 
ABOVE 
$735.00  
$710.00  
$585.00  
$560.00  
3. 
In addition to the above compensation, an event having more than 14 bouts shall require 
the promoter to pay an additional $35 per fight to the Chief Inspector and an additional 
$25 per fight to all other officials. 
C. 
MINIMUM AGE REQUIREMENT 
A person who applies for a promoter license must be a minimum of eighteen years old. 
D. 
PROMOTION PERMIT AND EVENT REQUIREMENTS 
1. 
Promotion Permit Application and Fee 
a. 
A promoter is required to have a permit for each event that includes a combative 
sport contest. A completed permit application and appropriate fee must be 
submitted to the Director at least thirty days prior to the scheduled date of the 
event. 
b. 
The Commission may approve a permit less than thirty days on a case by case 
basis. 
c. 
Promotion permits will not be granted to promoters who owe any fees from 
previous events. 
d. 
Any change to a previously approved permit will require a new permit application 
and may require a fee and must be submitted as expeditiously as possible. 
e. 
Permit applications filed in excess of 150 days in advance of the event require 
Commission approval. 
2. 
If a promoter promotes, advertises or sell tickets for an event before the promoter is 
licensed and appropriate permits have been granted for the event, the promoter may be 
subject to a fine or disciplinary action and the license or permit may not granted. 
3. 
Limitations and Expectations on Permits 
a. 
There are no limitations on the number of permits allowed at any one time. 
However, the Director may deny a permit for the following reasons: 
(1) 
Back-to-back events; 
(2) 
Same-day events; 
(3) 
Inadequate number of officials to properly regulate the event;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
34 
(4) 
Failure of a promoter or any person connected with the promotion to 
comply with any statute or rule; 
(5) 
A bout listed on the promotion permit application fails to meet the 
requirements of Rule 1.6; 
(6) 
Inadequate or unsafe location, site or arena selection; or, 
(7) 
For other reasons indicating that the requested permit may not be in the 
best interest of the sport, the participants, spectators, or the officials. 
(8) 
Failure to consult with the Director about the date prior to submitting a 
permit. 
b. 
Promoters are expected to comply with the following: 
(1) 
Fulfill all obligations of the permit. Any promoter who cancels an event 
after a permit is granted may be subject to disciplinary action and future 
permits may be denied. 
(2) 
By completing the permit, promoters agree to pay in guaranteed funds all 
officials’ fees established by the Division Director within the time frames 
established by the Director. 
(3) 
Ensure that all bouts are documented in the proper Association of Boxing 
Commission database for review. Failure to do so may result in the bout 
being cancelled. 
(4) 
No weigh-in will begin without official fees paid in full. If the official fees 
have not been paid in full, the weigh-in cannot be rescheduled and the 
event will be canceled. 
(5) 
Bout cards shall be finalized at least 48 hours prior to the weigh in date, 
unless otherwise approved by the Director. 
4. 
Minimum Requirements of Rounds 
a. 
Promoters shall not schedule less than twenty rounds nor more than forty rounds 
for any one event. A standby bout shall be provided in the event an arranged 
bout falls through and it is necessary to put on another bout in order to meet the 
minimum requirements. Any exception to the number of rounds requires approval 
of the Director. 
b. 
The promoter is expected to feature a main event bout. The number of rounds 
that qualify as a main event bout is at least five rounds for boxing and at least 
three rounds for kickboxing, Muay Thai, and MMA. 
c. 
A promoter may appeal a permit denial to the Combative Sports Commission by 
submitting a written request within ten days of the denial. 
E. 
COMPLIANCE BOND 
1. 
Promoters shall submit proof of a surety bond to the Director in an amount equal to both 
the amount of purses and official fees as determined by the Director before a scheduled 
event.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
35 
a. 
All bonds must be current and list the office of Combative Sports as the obligee. 
b. 
Bonds must be verified and approved by the Director. 
c. 
Failure to comply may result in the cancellation of the event and disciplinary 
action. 
F. 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 
1. 
Promoters are required to provide participants with at least $10,000 of life insurance 
covering deaths caused by injuries sustained during a bout. 
2. 
Promoters are required to provide participants in each event with at least $10,000 of 
insurance coverage for medical, surgical, and hospital care as a result of injuries 
sustained during a bout. 
3. 
Promoters are required to provide the Director with proof of the above insurance 
coverage at least seven days prior to the scheduled event. Failure to provide timely proof 
may result in cancellation of the event and/or disciplinary action. 
G. 
APPROVED ANNOUNCEMENTS 
1. 
Promoters are responsible for ensuring that an announcement is made prior to the start 
of the main event which includes a statement that the event is regulated by the 
Commission. 
2. 
Other announcements must be limited to those pertaining to present and future permitted 
bouts unless additional information in the announcement is specifically authorized by the 
Director or chief inspector. 
3. 
Political announcements or references are not allowed under any circumstances. 
H. 
SUBSTITUTION ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Promoters are required to publicly announce all substitutions for participants advertised for bouts 
as soon as the substitutions are known. Prior to the announcement of a substitution, the 
substitute participant must be approved by Director or the chief inspector. If the substitute 
appears for the bouts and is not used for any reason other than medical disqualification, the 
substitute will be reimbursed by the promoter a minimum of one hundred dollars for training 
expenses and transportation. Failing to announce substitutions or pay the required 
reimbursement may result in disciplinary action against the promoter. 
I. 
DELAY OF BOUTS 
Promoters are responsible for having participants ready to enter the ring or cage immediately 
after the conclusion of the preceding bout. Any promoter causing a delay of more than five 
minutes may be subject to disciplinary action. 
J. 
SECURITY AT EVENTS 
The promoter is responsible for working with owner or operator of the premises in which the event 
and weigh-in is held to ensure that adequate security is provided for the participants and other 
persons who are present.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
36 
1.14  
REQUIREMENTS FOR CONTRACT, FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS AND REPORTING 
FRAUD 
This Rule is promulgated pursuant to section 12-110-107, C.R.S. 
A. 
CONTRACT BETWEEN THE PROMOTERS AND THE PARTICIPANT – WRITING REQUIRED 
No professional bout will be approved without a contract with the promoter and the participant. 
The contracts must contain a minimum of the following: 
1. 
Name and signature of promoter or an authorized designee of the promoter. 
2. 
Name and signature of participant. 
3. 
Name of the opponent. 
4. 
Type of Bout. 
5. 
Date and start time of the event. 
6. 
Date and start time of weigh-in. 
7. 
Location of event and weigh-in. 
8. 
Number of rounds in the bout. 
9. 
Time limit of each round. 
10. 
Maximum and minimum weight allowable. 
11. 
Purse amount (Includes show and win money and ticket amount given), including a 
statement identifying the form of purse payment. 
12. 
Statement that failure to make contract weight will result in a fine of twenty (20) percent of 
their compensation that distributed to the opponent, as well as twenty (20) percent of all 
bonuses (including win bonuses) to the opponent. 
13. 
Statement that participant will be present and on time to the weigh-in and the event. 
14. 
Statements that the purse may be held by the Commission for violations. 
15. 
Any deducted fees must be listed (this does not include Commission permit or license 
fees). 
16. 
Statement that indicates participants will be paid by the promoter immediately following 
the event. 
17. 
Statement that indicates a substitute participant will be paid by the promoter if they do not 
engage in a bout. 
18. 
Statement whereby the participant acknowledges the inherent risk of engaging in the 
sport. The participant, agrees to waive any claim that they or the participant's heirs may 
have against the State of Colorado, or any of its employees or official representatives as 
the result of any injury the participant may suffer while engaging in any bout.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
37 
B. 
All contracts subject to this rule shall be available for inspection prior to the event date by the 
Director. 
C. 
Promoters must disclose to the Commission, in writing, fight purse amounts, which may include 
any bonuses that are paid out. 
D. 
MAXIMUM EFFORT 
A participant shall not be fully paid a fee who does not complete the terms of the contract or 
compete in good faith or maximum effort during the bout as determined by the Director or chief 
inspector. 
E. 
VIOLATION OF CONTRACT 
Violation of the terms of a contract by any party may be grounds for disciplinary action. 
F. 
GUIDELINES FOR REPORTS OF FRAUD 
1. 
If any person has reason to believe that fraud has occurred, such person must report the 
issue to the Director in writing within ten days of the event, unless otherwise extended by 
the Director. 
2. 
Any licensee who fails to report to the Director any fraud, violation of the law or rule may 
be subject to disciplinary action. 
3. 
If a licensee is approached with a request or suggestion that an event is not conducted 
honestly, that licensee must immediately report the matter to the Director. Failure to do 
so may be subject to disciplinary action. 
4. 
Any licensee, who directly or indirectly holds, participates in, aids or abets any sham or 
fake contest or match may be subject to disciplinary action. 
1.15 
PERSONNEL, FACILITY AND EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS 
This Rule is promulgated pursuant to section 12-110-107, C.R.S. Promoters and others involved in an 
event have the responsibility to understand and comply with the following Rules. 
A. 
PERSONNEL REQUIRED DURING BOUTS 
1. 
Physician 
a. 
A bout shall not start or continue unless the physician(s) are actively licensed in 
Colorado, approved for the event, is seated at ring or cage side, and the 
physician shall not leave until after the decision in a final bout. 
b. 
Televised bouts may require two physicians so that bouts may continue as one 
physician attends to a participant in the dressing rooms or in the near proximity. 
c. 
Physicians shall be prepared to assist if any serious emergency arises, and shall 
render temporary or emergency treatments for cuts and minor injuries sustained 
by the participants. 
2. 
Emergency Medical Technician (EMT)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
38 
a. 
Promoters are responsible for ensuring that all bouts have a minimum of two 
EMT’s onsite and must ensure that the EMT’s have medical equipment that at a 
minimum contains the following items and is located within twelve feet of the ring 
or cage: 
(1) 
A resuscitator; 
(2) 
An oxygen tank properly charged with suitable masks; 
(3) 
A stretcher; 
(4) 
An airway. 
b. 
Promoters must arrange for an ambulance to be onsite throughout the entire 
event and must arrange for and give advance notice to the nearest hospital and 
persons in charge of its emergency room of such event. 
c. 
The Director may require additional medical equipment and personnel as 
appropriate. 
3. 
Security 
a. 
Promoters are responsible for ensuring that public safety is maintained at all 
events by hiring a minimum of one certified peace officer. 
b. 
Additional officers may be required as determined by the Director. 
c. 
Any peace officer hired for this purpose must be Colorado State certified and 
must be employed by the local agency having jurisdiction in that area. 
d. 
The decision of whether a uniform is not worn by the peace officer shall be a joint 
decision of the law enforcement agency and the Director. 
e. 
Failure to comply may result in the cancellation of the event and may result in 
disciplinary action. 
B. 
FACILITY REQUIREMENTS 
Promoters are responsible for ensuring that all local laws and fire codes are adhered to where an 
event occurs. Additionally, promoters are responsible for ensuring that the facility selected for the 
event and the weigh-in is a family-friendly environment. Facility selection is subject to the 
approval of the Director or chief inspector. 
1. 
Dressing Rooms 
a. 
Promoters are responsible for limiting the dressing room area to authorized 
personnel and shall furnish a person to enforce this limitation. 
b. 
Female weigh-in participants may request separate dressing rooms from male 
participants. 
c. 
The promoter shall furnish a private room for officials at the event. 
d. 
The dressing rooms and immediate area must:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
39 
(1) 
Provide privacy for the participants; 
(2) 
Be properly lighted; 
(3) 
Be clean and free of clutter, trash, etc.; 
(4) 
Be free of alcoholic beverages or illegal drugs; 
(5) 
Comply with local health department requirements. 
2. 
Smoking area and Prohibited Objects 
a. 
Smoking is not permitted within twelve feet of the ring or cage. 
b. 
Beverages shall not be dispensed in cans or glass. 
c. 
Food or serving items used by the patrons shall not be made of hard substances 
that could reasonably cause harm if thrown. 
d. 
Any objects considered harmful to patrons as determined by Director or chief 
inspector are prohibited. 
3. 
Ring, Cage, or Competition Area Safety Zone 
A physical barrier surrounding the entire ring, cage, or competition area shall be placed at 
a minimum nine feet away from the outside edge of the apron or competition area. 
Anything within this area is the safety zone. The safety zone shall be under the control 
and jurisdiction of the Director or the chief inspector assigned to supervise the event. 
a. 
The safety zone is to be used for designated working officials, participants, 
seconds, physicians, announcers, Commission members and their guests and 
media representatives as approved by the Director or chief inspector. 
b. 
Promoters must ensure that the safety zone is controlled and free of nonessential 
individuals and the only beverage allowed is water. 
c. 
At no time during the bout may any items be on the ring apron. 
d. 
The tables next to the ring or cage must be free of any obstructions and shall not 
be higher than the fighting area platform. All areas surrounding the ring or cage 
must be suitable and safe as approved by the Director or chief inspector. 
e. 
Spectator seats shall be a minimum of ten feet away from the outside edge of the 
apron. 
f. 
The ring or cage safety zone must be completely set up at least three hours prior 
to the start of the first bout. This includes properly tightened ropes and all 
necessary equipment at ring or cage side. 
C. 
RING AND CAGE REQUIREMENTS 
1. 
Ring and Cage Size

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
40 
a. 
The ring shall be not less than 16 feet nor more than 25 feet square within the 
ropes. The ring must have three sets of suitable steps. It shall be elevated no 
less than three and one-half feet nor more than four feet from the floor. 
b. 
The cage shall be not less than 18 feet nor more than 32 feet square within the 
fighting area. The cage must have a set of suitable steps for each entrance. It 
shall be elevated no more than four feet from the floor. 
c. 
The ring or cage posts shall be made of metal not less than three inches or more 
than four inches in diameter extending from the floor to the height of 58 inches 
above the ring floor. 
d. 
The ring or cage entry onto the fighting area canvas must be sufficient to allow 
easy access to the fighting area. 
2. 
Ring Ropes and Fencing 
a. 
Four ropes are required for boxing and kickboxing. The lower rope shall be 18 
inches above the ring floor, the second rope 30 inches, the third rope 42 inches, 
and the fourth rope 54 inches above the ring floor. The ropes shall not be less 
than one inch in diameter and wrapped in soft material, with the corners padded 
with protective covers. 
b. 
A fifth or bottom rope is required for MMA bouts in a ring. The bottom rope shall 
not be more than six inches from the ring floor. The requirements for the top four 
ropes are the same as for boxing and kickboxing. 
c. 
The fencing that encloses a cage shall be made of materials that will not allow a 
participant to easily fall out of the space or break through it onto the floor or 
spectators. 
d. 
Acceptable materials for ring ropes or fencing include but are not limited to: 
(1) 
Vinyl-coated chain link fencing; 
(2) 
Metal parts of the enclosure and fighting that are covered and padded; 
(3) 
Any material that is not abrasive to the participants; 
(4) 
Any material that does not obstruct or limit the supervision and regulation 
of the bout. 
e. 
The ropes shall be connected to the posts with extensions not shorter than 18 
inches. 
f. 
All ring ropes and fencing is subject to the approval of the Director or the chief 
inspector. 
3. 
Materials for the Ring and Cage Floor 
a. 
Floor. 
(1) 
The ring floor shall extend beyond the lower rope no less than 24 inches.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
41 
(2) 
The entire floor and apron must be padded with insulate, felt, matting, or 
a similar material with a thickness of at least one-inch. 
(3) 
A canvas or similar material covering, stretched tightly and laced or 
fastened to the outer edge of the floor shall cover the padding. 
(4) 
Boards shall be of sufficient strength to hold the weight and ensure the 
safety of all who enter the ring. 
(5) 
The padding thickness of any material is subject to the approval of the 
Director. 
b. 
Prohibited Floor Materials. 
(1) 
Vinyl or any plastic rubberized covering. 
(2) 
Materials that gather in lumps or ridges. 
4. 
Additional Required Equipment 
Promoters are required to provide all equipment and materials necessary to conduct all 
bouts. The equipment must be clean and in good condition. Such required equipment 
includes which are subject examination and approval by a Commission representative 
the following: 
a. 
Steps; 
b. 
Two similar stools; 
c. 
Water buckets; 
d. 
Bell; 
e. 
Buzzer or whistle; 
f. 
Timers; 
g. 
Gloves; 
h. 
Head gear; 
i. 
Elbow pads; 
j. 
Shin pads; 
k. 
Gauze and tape; 
l. 
Scale; 
m. 
Any other associated material and equipment as determined by the Director. 
5. 
Pairs of Gloves Required for all competing participants.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
42 
Promoters are responsible for having pairs of gloves on hand equal to the number of 
participants competing. The gloves may be used multiple times during an event. 
Promoters must be prepared for differing glove sizes. 
6. 
Gloves 
All gloves shall be furnished by the promoter and shall be new or in-tact and in good 
clean condition without lumps or imperfections. All participants in the main event, 
championship bouts and bouts of six rounds or more shall use new gloves. The specific 
glove size for each event shall be as follows: 
a. 
In boxing, Muay Thai, or kickboxing bouts, the following requirements apply: 
(1) 
Participants weighing 147 pounds or less shall use at least eight-ounce 
gloves. 
(2) 
Participants weighing over 147 pounds shall use at least ten-ounce 
gloves. 
(3) 
When two participants differ in weight classes, participants shall use at 
least ten-ounce gloves. 
(4) 
The Director may approve or require glove size increases. 
(5) 
Participants in each bout shall wear the same brand gloves. The Director 
may approve gloves of different -brands. 
b. 
In MMA bouts, the following requirements apply: 
(1) 
Gloves must weigh at least four ounces. 
(2) 
Gloves weighing over eight ounces must be approved by the Director or 
the chief inspector. 
c. 
All gloves will be examined and approved by the Director or the chief inspector 
any time before, during and after a bout. 
d. 
If gloves are not approved by the Director or the chief inspector, they will be 
discarded before the bout starts, and the bout will not proceed until proper gloves 
are approved. 
e. 
Gloves that are manipulated in such a manner as breaking, skinning, roughing or 
twisting shall not be approved for use, and such conduct is subject to disciplinary 
action. 
1.16 
TICKETS AND SALES REPORTING REQUIREMENTS 
This Rule is promulgated pursuant to section 12-110-107, C.R.S. 
A. 
ADMISSION TO EVENTS AND TICKETS REQUIRED 
1. 
Every person admitted to an event shall have a ticket or a pass, complimentary or 
otherwise. Officials, participants, and seconds do not require a ticket or a pass. Every 
admission ticket or complimentary ticket or pass must be tracked.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
43 
2. 
The retail price of the tickets shall be printed in large type and displayed prominently 
above or near all ticket sellers or ticket windows. 
3. 
The promoter shall disclose the retail ticket prices to the Director no later than the time 
the application for the permit is filed. 
4. 
Tickets of different prices shall be printed in different colors, or state the retail price on the 
face value of the ticket. Retail ticket prices shall not be changed. 
5. 
The Director shall be provided with all information and materials necessary for an 
accurate accounting, including the printers’ manifest showing the total number of tickets 
printed and the admission prices of each within seven days of an event. 
6. 
Advance tickets, as well as tickets sold at the time of the event, must be accounted for as 
part of the gross receipts. 
7. 
The number of tickets sold shall not exceed the actual capacity of the location or facility 
where the event is to be held. 
B. 
OTHER TICKETS AND TICKET LIMIT 
The Director, Commissioners, chief inspectors, and designated employees of the Department of 
Regulatory Agencies shall be admitted without charge to any event over which the Commission 
has jurisdiction. These individuals may be required to present their state identification. 
C. 
NOTICE OF CHANGE - TICKET REFUNDS 
1. 
Notice of any change in the announced advertised bouts must be conspicuously posted 
at the box office and announced prior to the scheduled start of the bouts. 
2. 
Any patrons requesting a refund of the ticket price must present the tickets or the ticket 
stubs at the box office or to a designated person who is handling the refunds. 
3. 
All returned ticket stubs must be held for an accurate accounting of the gross receipts. 
D. 
SURCHARGE 
The promoter is responsible for all surcharge matters below: 
1. 
An event surcharge on gross receipts, less applicable taxes, may be assessed on each 
event. If tickets or passes are priced so that the applicable surcharge results in less than 
$1.00 per ticket or pass, a surcharge of $1.00 per ticket or pass may be assessed. 
2. 
An additional surcharge may be assessed on each ticket or pass issued to the event as 
determined by the Division Director. 
3. 
No later than ten business days after the event, promoters are responsible for filing an 
accurate surcharge report with the appropriate surcharge payment. Payment shall be in 
the form of a cashier’s check, money order, or other acceptable methods as determined 
by the Director. 
4. 
The Director has the discretion to verify the surcharge report submitted. 
5. 
Failing to submit an accurate surcharge report and appropriate payment may result in 
disciplinary action.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
44 
1.17 
REQUIREMENTS FOR ELIMINATION BOUTS 
This Rule is promulgated pursuant 12-110-107, C.R.S. 
Rules 1.5, 1.6, 1.8, 1.9, and 1.10 apply to elimination bouts unless otherwise noted in this Rule. 
A. 
ELIGIBILITY 
1. 
A participant is eligible to compete if they have NOT been a competitor in professional 
combative sports. 
2. 
Promoters are required to call to the attention of the Director any concerns. The Director 
may not accept a participant due to conduct or safety concerns. The Director will 
determine whether the fighter is fit to continue. 
B. 
ELIMINATION GLOVE SIZE 
1. 
For all boxing, kickboxing, and Muay Thai elimination bouts, boxing gloves of at least 12 
ounces shall be worn. 
2. 
For all MMA elimination bouts, gloves of a least four ounces shall be worn. 
C. 
EQUIPMENT 
1. 
Boxing: 
The Promoter shall provide head gear which shall be worn by all participants. The 
Director has the sole discretion to waive the headgear requirement on a bout by bout 
basis. 
2. 
Kickboxing: 
The promoter shall provide headgear, shin guards, which shall be worn by all 
participants. The Director has the discretion to limit the amount of equipment required. 
3. 
Muay Thai: 
The promoter shall provide headgear, shin guards, and elbow pads, which shall be worn 
by all participants unless modified under Rule 1.16(I). Only elbow pads approved by the 
Director shall be used. 
D. 
ROUNDS AND TIME LENGTH 
1. 
With Director approval, elimination boxing, kickboxing, and Muay Thai bouts may consist 
of three, three-minute rounds with a one-minute rest period between rounds. 
2. 
Elimination MMA bouts shall consist of three, three-minute rounds with a one-minute rest 
period between each round. 
E. 
ELIMINATION TOURNAMENT FORMAT 
1. 
Tournaments shall be single elimination events. A participant who has lost a bout may 
not participate in another bout in the same event. 
2. 
Tournaments may be between only two participants.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
45 
F. 
ELIMINATION TOURNAMENT LENGTH 
1. 
Elimination tournaments are a one-day event. Participants may not participate in more 
than three matches per event. 
G. 
WEIGHT CLASSES 
1. 
The following shall be the weight classes by each sport: 
a. 
Boxing: Rule 1.8 
b. 
Kickboxing: Rule 1.9 
c. 
Muay Thai: Rule 1.9 
d. 
Mixed Martial Arts: The Commission adopts by reference the Association of 
Boxing Commissions and Combative Sports Unified Rules of Mixed Martial Arts 
regarding weight categories (https://www.abcboxing.com/wp-
content/uploads/2024/07/unified-mma-rules-rev-july-2024.pdf (effective 
November 1, 2024)). 
The standards and regulations incorporated by reference may be examined at 
the Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports 
Commission, 1560 Broadway, Suite 1350, Denver, Colorado 80202, during 
normal business hours, Monday through Friday, except when such days are 
state holidays. Certified copies of the incorporated standards shall be provided at 
cost upon request. The Director or the Director’s designee will provide 
information regarding how the incorporated standards and regulations may be 
examined at any state public depository library. The standards and regulations 
are also available from the agency, organization or association originally issuing 
the code, standard, guideline or rules as follows: Association of Boxing 
Commissions and Combative Sports (https://www.abcboxing.com/wp-
content/uploads/2024/07/unified-mma-rules-rev-july-2024.pdf (effective 
November 1, 2024)) and the Association of Boxing Commissions and Combative 
Sports (https://www.abcboxing.com/unified-rules-kickboxing (effective July 26, 
2017)). 
This Rule does not include any later amendments or editions of the code, 
standard, guideline, or rules. 
H. 
ELIMINATION RULES FOR BOXING, KICKBOXING, MUAY THAI AND MIXED MARTIAL ARTS 
1. 
Unless specifically modified elsewhere under these rules, the Commission adopts the 
Boxing rules starting in Rule 1.8. 
2. 
Unless specifically modified elsewhere under these rules, the Commission adopts by 
reference the Association of Boxing Commissions and Combative Sports Unified Rules of 
Amateur Kickboxing (https://www.abcboxing.com/unified-rules-of-amateur-
kickboxing/)(effective July 29, 2019)) 
3. 
Unless specifically modified elsewhere under these rules, the Commission adopts the 
Muay Thai rules starting in Rule 1.9.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
46 
4. 
Unless specifically modified elsewhere under these rules, the Commission adopts by 
reference the Association of Boxing Commissions and Combative Sports Unified Rules of 
Mixed Martial Arts (https://www.abcboxing.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/unified-
mma-rules-rev-july-2024.pdf (effective November 1, 2024)). 
The standards and regulations incorporated by reference may be examined at the 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission, 1560 
Broadway, Suite 1350, Denver, Colorado 80202, during normal business hours, Monday 
through Friday, except when such days are state holidays. Certified copies of the 
incorporated standards shall be provided at cost upon request. The Director or the 
Director’s designee will provide information regarding how the incorporated standards 
and regulations may be examined at any state public depository library. The standards 
and regulations are also available from the agency, organization or association originally 
issuing the code, standard, guideline or rules as follows: Association of Boxing 
Commissions and Combative Sports (https://www.abcboxing.com/wp-
content/uploads/2024/07/unified-mma-rules-rev-july-2024.pdff (effective November 1, 
2024)) and the Association of Boxing Commissions and Combative Sports 
(https://www.abcboxing.com/unified-rules-kickboxing (effective July 26, 2017)). This Rule 
does not include any later amendments or editions of the code, standard, guideline, or 
rules. 
I. 
ELBOW AND KNEE STRIKES PROHIBITED 
Knee strikes to the head are prohibited in any elimination bout and the participant may be 
disqualified and subject to disciplinary action. Elbows to the head are prohibited in an elimination 
Muay Thai bout with the following exceptions: 
1. 
Participants with 0-3 fights are required to wear all protective gear including headgear 
and shin guards. No elbows are allowed. 
2. 
Participants with 4-9 fights are required to wear all protective gear including headgear, 
shin guards, and elbow pads. 
3. 
Participants with 10 or more fights may wear all protective gear but shall wear elbow 
pads. 
4. 
If elbow pads are used, they must be securely fashioned in such a manner to prevent 
slipping or the elbow pad from turning. White athletic tape may be used to secure both 
the top and bottom of the elbow pad. 
5. 
Should an elbow pad come loose, the referee will immediately secure the elbow pad 
before allowing the bout to continue. 
1.18 
REQUIREMENTS FOR OFFICIALS 
This Rule is promulgated pursuant to sections 12-20-105, 12-20-202(4), 12-110-107, 12-110-109, and 12-
110-111, C.R.S. 
A. 
OFFICIALS - CONTROL 
1. 
All officials involved in an event shall be under the direct control and supervision of the 
Director or the chief inspector assigned to supervise the event. The Director has the 
discretion to determine whether clothes, facial or body adornments (long mustaches, 
goatees, beards sideburns) and length of hair comply with the professional dress code for 
officials for that particular event.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
47 
2. 
The bell shall only ring after the count is finished and the referee makes the 
determination the participant is able to continue or stops the bout. 
3. 
The official may not consume, or be under the influence of, alcohol, marijuana, or any 
controlled substance while acting as an official. 
4. 
Failure to comply may result in disciplinary action and prohibition from officiating future 
events. 
5. 
Any written complaint made to the Director regarding officiating conduct, or officials 
conduct during and outside of an event, will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis if 
reported within two weeks after an event or incident. 
B. 
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR AN OFFICIAL LICENSE 
A license is required to serve as an official in a professional combative sport contest. All officials 
shall submit an application for a license to officiate in a manner prescribed by the Director. 
Incomplete or incorrect applications will not be accepted. 
Each applicant for a license shall pay the fee established by the Division Director pursuant to 
section 12-20-105, C.R.S. Any person wishing to apply for an official’s license must demonstrate 
the following qualifications in combative sport. 
1. 
Referee Qualifications: 
a. 
Referee experience may be demonstrated by one of the following: 
(1) 
Four years of amateur experience as a referee at the highest 
classification level, or, 
(2) 
One year of professional experience as a referee from a State Athletic 
Commission, or a Tribal Commission that is a member of the Association 
of Boxing Commissions. 
b. 
Other requirements for Referees: 
(1) 
Prior to licensure, a referee must attest that they have read and 
understand the laws and rules covering professional combative sports in 
this state. 
(2) 
The referee must also read and understand the rules of the various 
sanctioning bodies. 
(3) 
A written test and a physical examination may be required at the 
discretion of the Director to determine fitness to perform. 
2. 
Judge Qualifications: 
a. 
Judge experience may be demonstrated by one of the following: 
(1) 
Three years of amateur experience as a judge at the highest level of 
accomplishment.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
48 
(2) 
One year of professional experience as a judge from a State Athletic 
Commission or a Tribal Commission that is a member of the Association 
of Boxing Commissions. 
3. 
Inspector Qualifications: 
There are three positions within the inspector category: timekeepers, tally judge and 
knock down judge. 
a. 
Inspector experience may be demonstrated by one of the following: 
(1) 
Three years of amateur experience as an inspector, timekeeper, tally 
judge or knock down judge. 
(2) 
One year of professional experience in any of the positions listed above 
from a State Athletic Commission or a Tribal Athletic Commission that is 
a member of the Association of Boxing Commissions, or upon approval 
of the Director. 
4. 
Credit for Military, Education, Training, or Experience 
a. 
An applicant for licensure may submit information about the applicant’s 
education, training, or experience acquired during military service. It is the 
applicant’s responsibility to provide timely and complete information for the 
Director’s review. 
b. 
In order to meet the requirements for licensure, such education, training, or 
experience must be substantially equivalent to the required qualifications that are 
otherwise applicable at the time the application is received by the Director. 
c. 
The Director will determine, on a case-by-case basis, whether the applicant’s 
military education, training, or experience meet the requirements for licensure. 
d. 
If the Director determines that the submitted military education, training, or 
experience only partially satisfies licensure requirements, the Director will advise 
the applicant on the amount and type of additional education, training, or 
experience that is required to qualify for licensure. 
e. 
Documentation of military experience may include, but is not limited to, 
Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty (DD-214), Verification of 
Military Experience and Training (DD-2586), Military transcript, Training records, 
Evaluation reports, or Letters from Commanding Officers describing the 
applicant’s practice as an official. 
C. 
CONFLICT OF INTEREST 
1. 
Officials may not act in any other capacity during an event, unless given permission by 
the Director. 
2. 
Officials shall be excluded from officiating as a referee or a judge in any bout involving 
participants with whom they have worked as manager, trainer, or had a recent business 
relationship. 
3. 
Officials shall notify the Director or chief inspector immediately of any conflict or potential 
conflict in writing and as set forth in policy.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
49 
D. 
CHIEF INSPECTOR DEFINITION AND DUTIES 
1. 
A chief inspector is a licensed official who is authorized by the Director to supervise an 
event on behalf of the Office of Combative Sports. 
2. 
The Director shall set the amount of compensation the official will receive for each 
supervised event. 
3. 
The chief inspector must ensure that the laws and rules are properly applied and 
enforced. 
4. 
Chief inspectors must report to the Director any violations of the law or rule that occur 
during an event within twenty-four hours. 
E. 
REFEREE ENFORCEMENT 
1. 
The referee is charged with the enforcement of all Office of Combative Sports Rules 
which apply to the execution of performance and the conduct of participants' seconds 
while in the ring. 
2. 
Referees shall not wear glasses of any kind while refereeing a bout. 
F. 
REFEREE DUTIES 
1. 
Before the start of each bout, the referee will check each judge and the timekeeper to 
determine if they are prepared to start the bout. 
2. 
The referee is responsible for determining who will act as the chief second in each corner 
and shall hold them responsible for all conduct in the corners. 
3. 
The referee in their discretion shall warn the seconds of rule violations, and if they do not 
comply, the referee shall warn them that further violations will result in point deductions, 
disqualification of their participant, and subject to disciplinary action. 
4. 
The referee shall instruct the judges to mark their scorecards accurately at all times. 
5. 
The referee shall ensure that a bout moves to its proper conclusion. It should not be 
stopped or delayed, except in cases of damaging fouls or health and safety concerns. 
6. 
The referee shall penalize participants who delay or use avoiding tactics by deducting 
points or by immediate disqualification. 
7. 
At the conclusion of all bouts and upon the announcement of the winner, the referee shall 
raise the winner's hand. 
G. 
APPROVAL AND PAYMENT 
The Director shall select the referee for each bout and the decision shall be final. The amount of 
money paid to the referee shall be fixed by the Director. Depending on the bout, a referee may be 
paid by the promoter or sanctioning organization. 
H. 
SOLE ARBITER 
1. 
The referee is the sole arbiter of a bout and is the only individual authorized to stop a 
bout.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
50 
2. 
Referees shall stop a bout when they deem the following: 
a. 
The physical condition of a participant so requires, 
b. 
When a participant is out-classed; 
c. 
A participant is not demonstrating their best efforts. 
3. 
In the event of serious cuts, the referee may seek a recommendation from the physician 
whether the bout should be stopped. 
I. 
FORFEITURE AND WITHHOLDING OF A PARTICIPANT'S PURSE 
The referee shall recommend to the Director or chief inspector, the forfeiture or the withholding of 
half of a participant's purse whenever a participant fails to perform in good faith or maximum 
effort when competing. 
J. 
GLOVE INSPECTION 
1. 
The referee shall inspect the gloves of the participants in all events and make sure that 
no foreign substances have been applied to the gloves or bodies of the participants that 
might be detrimental to an opponent. 
2. 
Whenever the gloves of a boxing or kickboxing participant touches the canvas floor, the 
referee shall inspect the gloves and wipe them clean before the bout proceeds. 
K. 
LOSS OF BODILY FUNCTION 
If a participant, during a round, visibly loses control of a bodily function (vomit, urine, bowels), the 
bout shall be stopped by the referee, and the participant shall lose the contest by TKO. In the 
event a loss of control of a bodily function occurs in the rest period between rounds, the ringside 
physician shall be called in to evaluate if the combatant can continue. If the participant is not 
cleared by the ringside physician to continue, that participant shall lose by TKO. In these 
situations, the result shall be recorded as TKO due to Medical Stoppage. 
L. 
KNOCKDOWN COUNTS 
1. 
When a participant is knocked down as a result of a punch in a boxing bout or a legal kick 
or punch in a kickboxing bout, the referee shall order the opponent to a neutral corner 
and may pick up the count from the timekeeper. 
2. 
The referee shall audibly announce the passing of the count. The participant may take 
the eight count either on the floor or standing. The referee's count is the official count. 
3. 
Should the opponent fail to stay in the neutral corner, the referee shall cease the count 
until the participant returns to the corner, then the referee shall continue with the count 
from the point at which the count was interrupted. 
4. 
The eight count is mandatory for a knockdown in a boxing and Muay Thai bout and a 
participant may not resume fighting until the referee has finished counting to eight. 
5. 
During any count, the opponent shall go to the farthest neutral corner and remain in that 
neutral corner until signaled by the referee.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
51 
M. 
FALLEN PARTICIPANT WHO RISES AND FALLS AGAIN WITHOUT BEING HIT AGAIN 
1. 
When a fallen participant rises and falls again, without being hit again, in a boxing, 
kickboxing, or Muay Thai bout the referee shall continue the original count, rather than 
starting a new count. 
2. 
The bell shall only ring after the count is finished and the referee makes the 
determination the participant is able to continue or stops the bout. 
N. 
COUNT OF TEN - INDICATION OF KNOCKOUT 
If the referee calls the count of ten during a knockdown in a boxing, kickboxing, or Muay Thai 
bout or the referee determines that a participant is not able to continue, the referee shall wave 
both arms to indicate a knockout. 
O. 
PARTICIPANTS DOWN AT THE SAME TIME 
If both participants are considered down at the same time in a boxing or kickboxing bout, the 
count shall continue as long as one of them is still down. If both participants remain down until the 
count of ten, the bout shall be stopped and the result shall be a technical draw. 
P. 
ASSESSING FOULS 
1. 
The referee must weigh the cause as well as the act in assessing fouls. 
2. 
When a foul is unintentionally inflicted, but intentionally received, it is applied to the 
deliberate recipient. 
3. 
If a participant receives a low blow as determined by the referee, the referee may use 
their discretion to permit a rest period for the recipient. Such period shall not exceed five 
minutes. During the rest period, seconds may not assist or coach either participant. 
4. 
The offending participant shall go to a neutral corner. 
5. 
The referee will give a warning for a low blow to the offending participant if the participant 
who received the low blow indicates they are ready to continue the bout. 
6. 
The referee will give the command to continue after the end of the rest period. If the 
offended participant refuses to continue after the rest period, their opponent may be 
named the winner. 
Q. 
LOW BLOWS - RECIPIENT NAMED WINNER 
A participant cannot be named the winner of a bout as a result of receiving a low blow unless the 
referee determines the blow was delivered deliberately and was of such force to seriously 
incapacitate the offended participant so that they could not continue to compete. Under this 
condition, the offender shall be disqualified immediately. 
R. 
DELIBERATE ACTIONS TO GAIN ADVANTAGE – PENALTIES 
1. 
The referee shall warn or penalize participants who use the ropes or deliberately dislodge 
their mouthpiece or use other unfair tactics to gain an advantage. 
2. 
The referee shall not permit unfair tactics that may cause injuries to participants.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
52 
3. 
In a boxing bout, the only fair blow is a blow delivered with the padded knuckle part of the 
glove on the front or sides of the head and body above the hip line. 
S. 
JUDGE APPROVAL 
The Director shall select the judges for each bout and the decision shall be final. The amount of 
money paid the judges for services rendered shall be fixed by the Director. Depending on the 
bout, a judge may be paid by the promoter or sanctioning organization. 
T. 
JUDGE DUTIES 
1. 
Judges are responsible to familiarize themselves with and review the method to be used 
when scoring bouts which may vary by sport. 
2. 
The bouts shall be scored to determine the winner with the ten-point must system. In this 
system, the winner of each round receives ten points and the opponent a proportionately 
lower number. If the round is even, each participant receives ten points. 
3. 
Scorecards are provided by the Director and only those shall be used. 
4. 
Each judge shall accurately complete their scorecard and in accordance with the 
provisions of the rules governing the sport they are judging. 
5. 
At the end of each round the scorecard shall be totaled and signed by each judge. 
U. 
NUMBER OF JUDGES 
All bouts will be evaluated and scored by a minimum of three judges. 
V. 
JUDGE POSITION 
The judges shall sit alone at ring or cage side and will reach their own decision without conferring 
in any manner with any other official or person. 
W. 
REMOVAL OF JUDGES 
Judges of bouts will be under the control and jurisdiction of the office of Combative Sports. The 
Director or chief inspector reserves the right to remove a judge, if, the judge is inefficient or is 
otherwise unable to act as a judge. 
X. 
INSPECTOR PERFORMING TIMEKEEPER DUTIES 
The timekeeper is responsible for keeping accurate time of all bouts. The timekeeper shall keep 
an exact record of the time taken out at the request of the referee for the examination of a 
participant by the physician, replacing a glove, or adjusting equipment during a round, and report 
the exact time of the bout being stopped. The timekeeper shall use an audible device to indicate 
the conclusion of every round.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
4 CCR 740-1 
Colorado Office of Combative Sports and Colorado Combative Sports Commission 
 
53 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Rule 1.018 emer. rule eff. 09/24/2010; expired eff. 01/22/2011. 
Entire rule eff. 09/01/2011. 
Rules 1.1, 1.5, 2.6, 2.8, 2.9, 2.11, 3.2, 3.6, 5.11, 7.6, 12.4, 13.2, 13.3, 14.1 eff. 07/01/2016. 
Entire rule eff. 07/01/2018. 
Rules 1.1, 1.2, 1.7, 1.8, 2.5, 2.9-2.20, 3.3, 3.4, 5.1, Chapters 6-7, rules 8.6-8.13, 11.3 D.ix, 13.2, 13.3, 
13.7-13.9, 14.1, 14.15-14.17 emer. rules eff. 06/18/2019. 
Rules 1.1, 1.2, 1.7, 1.8, 2.1, 2.5, 2.9-2.20, 3.3, 3.4, 5.1, 5.4, 6.1-6.5, 7.1, 7.2, 8.6-8.13, 10.1, 11.3, 12.2-
12.4, 13.1-13.9, 14.1, 14.2 D, 14.15-14.17 eff. 12/30/2019. 
Entire rule eff. 05/30/2021. 
Rule 1.4 K.2 eff. 11/30/2021. 
Rule 1.18 emer. rule eff. 10/12/2022. 
Rules 1.3, 1.6 F.6, 1.8 B, 1.10 A, 1.11 A, 1.12 D.4.b, 1.12 E.1, 1.13 A.11, 1.14 C.6.a, 1.16 D.1, 1.16 
G.1.d, 1.16 H.4, 1.17 U, 1.18 eff. 11/30/2022. 
Rules 1.3, 1.4 A, 1.4 D, 1.4 F, 1.5 D.2, 1.5 E, 1.6 D-I, 1.7 F, 1.8 D, 1.8 O, 1.11-1.18 eff. 10/15/2024. Rule 
1.18 repealed eff. 10/15/2024. 
Rules 1.3, 1.9 A, 1.10 A, 1.17 G.1.d, 1.17 H.4 emer. rules eff. 11/01/2024. 
Rules 1.3, 1.9 A, 1.10 A, 1.17 G.1.d, 1.17 H.4 emer. rules eff. 02/19/2025. 
Rules 1.3, 1.9 A, 1.10 A, 1.17 G.1.d, 1.17 H.4 emer. rules eff. 06/03/2025. 
Rules 1.3, 1.9 A, 1.10 A, 1.17 G.1.d, 1.17 H.4 eff. 07/30/2025. 
 
Annotations 
Rules 1.18 B. and 1.18 C. (adopted 10/12/2022) were not extended by Senate Bill 23-102 and therefore 
expired 05/15/2023.
