---
id: "5_CCR_1001-28"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "5 CCR 1001-28"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12562&fileName=5%20CCR%201001-28&type=pdf"
---

#### 5_CCR_1001-28. 5 CCR 1001-28

1 
Department of Public Health and Environment 
Air Quality Control Commission 
REGULATION NUMBER 24 CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM VOLATILE ORGANIC 
COMPOUNDS AND PETROLEUM LIQUIDS STORAGE AND PETROLEUM 
PROCESSING AND REFINING 
5 CCR 1001-28 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
Outline of Regulation 
PART A 
Applicability and General Provisions 
I. 
Applicability 
II. 
General Provisions 
Appendix A Colorado Ozone Nonattainment or Attainment Maintenance Areas 
PART B 
Storage, Transfer, and Disposal of Volatile Organic Compounds and 
Petroleum Liquids and Petroleum Processing and Refining 
I. 
General Requirements for Storage and Transfer of Volatile Organic 
Compounds 
II. 
Storage of Highly Volatile Organic Compounds 
III. 
Disposal of Volatile Organic Compounds 
IV. 
Storage and Transfer of Petroleum Liquid 
V. 
Crude Oil 
VI. 
Petroleum Processing and Refining 
VII. 
Control of Volatile Organic Compound Leaks from Vapor Collection 
Systems and Vapor Control Systems Located at Gasoline Terminals, 
Gasoline Bulk Plants, and Gasoline Dispensing Facilities 
Appendix B Criteria for Control of Vapors from Gasoline Transfer to Storage Tanks 
Appendix C Criteria for Control of Vapors from Gasoline Transfer at Bulk Plants 
PART C 
Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
2 
_____________________________________________________________________ 
Pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes Section 24-4-103 (12.5), materials incorporated 
by reference are available for public inspection during normal business hours, or copies 
may be obtained at a reasonable cost from the Air Quality Control Commission (the 
Commission), 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, Colorado 80246-1530. The 
material incorporated by reference is also available through the United States 
Government Printing Office, online at www.govinfo.gov. Materials incorporated by 
reference are those editions in existence as of the date indicated and do not include any 
later amendments. 
PART A 
Applicability and General Provisions 
I. 
Applicability 
I.A. 
I.A.1. The provisions of this regulation shall apply as follows: 
I.A.1.a. 
All provisions of this regulation apply to the Denver 1-hour 
ozone attainment/maintenance area, to any nonattainment area for 
the 1-hour ozone standard, to the 8-hour Ozone Control Area, and 
to northern Weld County. 
I.A.1.b. 
(State Only) All provisions of this regulation apply to any 
ozone nonattainment area, which includes areas designated 
nonattainment for either the 1-hour or 8-hour ozone standard, 
unless otherwise specified in Section I.A.1.c. Colorado’s ozone 
nonattainment or attainment maintenance area maps and 
chronologies of attainment status are identified in Appendix A of 
this regulation. 
I.A.1.c. 
The provisions of Part B, Sections III., IV.B.1. and IV.B.2., 
and V.C. apply statewide. The provisions marked by (State Only) 
are not federally enforceable, unless otherwise identified. 
I.A.2. REPEALED 
I.A.3. REPEALED 
I.B. 
Sources 
I.B.1. New Sources 
I.B.1.a. 
New sources, defined as any sources located in the 1-hour 
ozone nonattainment area or attainment maintenance area, which 
either (1) submit a complete permit application on or after October 
30, 1989, or (2) if no permit is required, commence operation on or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
3 
after October 30, 1989, must comply with the provisions of this 
regulation upon commencement of operation. 
I.B.1.b. 
(State Only) New sources are any sources which 
commenced construction on or after the date on which the area is 
first designated as being in nonattainment for ozone and are 
located in that area, or, if located in the 1-hour ozone 
nonattainment or attainment maintenance area, by October 30, 
1989. New sources shall comply with the requirements of this 
regulation by whichever date comes later: 
I.B.1.b.(i) 
(State Only) October 30, 1989, if they are located in 
what was previously designated as a 1-hour ozone 
nonattainment or attainment maintenance area; 
I.B.1.b.(ii) 
 (State Only) February 1, 2009, if they are located in 
an 8-Hour Ozone Control Area and outside of the 1-hour 
ozone nonattainment or attainment maintenance area; or 
I.B.1.b.(iii) 
(State Only) Upon commencement of operation, if 
located within an ozone nonattainment or attainment 
maintenance area. 
I.B.2. Existing Sources 
I.B.2.a. 
Existing sources are 
I.B.2.a.(i) 
(1) those sources for which a complete permit 
application was submitted prior to October 30, 1989, or (2) 
those sources, which commenced operation prior to October 
30, 1989, if they are located in the 1-hour ozone 
nonattainment or attainment maintenance area. 
I.B.2.a.(ii) 
Those sources that submitted a complete permit 
application or that commenced operation prior to February 1, 
2009, if they are located in the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area 
and outside of the 1-hour ozone nonattainment or attainment 
maintenance area. 
I.B.2.a.(iii) 
Those sources located in northern Weld County that 
submitted a complete application or that commenced 
operation prior to February 14, 2023. 
I.B.2.b. 
(State Only) Existing sources located in the 1-hour ozone 
nonattainment or attainment maintenance area are those sources 
which commenced construction prior to the date on which the area 
is first designated as being in nonattainment for ozone and are 
located in that area, or, if located in the 1-hour ozone

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
4 
nonattainment or attainment maintenance area, by October 30, 
1989. 
I.B.2.c. 
Existing sources located in the 1-hour ozone nonattainment 
or attainment maintenance area shall not be required to comply 
with requirements of this regulation until on and after October 30, 
1991. All existing sources shall comply with the requirements set 
forth in Exhibit A until October 30, 1991. 
I.B.2.d. 
Existing sources shall be required to comply with 
requirements of this regulation by the following dates. 
I.B.2.d.(i) 
(State Only) October 30, 1989, if they are located in 
what was previously designated as a 1-hour ozone 
nonattainment or attainment maintenance area; 
I.B.2.d.(ii) 
(State Only) February 1, 2009, if they are located in 
an 8-hour Ozone Control Area and outside of the Denver 1-
hour ozone nonattainment or attainment maintenance area; 
I.B.2.d.(iii) 
February 14, 2023, if located in northern Weld County 
and subject to requirements in Part B, Sections III., IV.B.1., 
IV.B.2., or V.C. 
I.B.2.d.(iv) 
December 31, 2024, if located in northern Weld 
County and not subject to requirements in Part B, Sections 
III., IV.B.1., IV.B.2., or V.C.; or 
I.B.2.d.(v) 
(State Only) Three years after the date on which the 
area is first designated as being in nonattainment for ozone, 
if located within that ozone nonattainment or attainment 
maintenance area. 
I.B.2.e. 
On and after October 30, 1991, all existing sources located 
in the 1-hour ozone nonattainment or attainment maintenance area 
shall comply with the requirements of this regulation, and Exhibit A 
shall no longer be applicable. 
I.B.2.f. Repealed. 
I.B.2.g. 
Repealed. 
I.C. 
Once a source subject to this regulation exceeds an applicable threshold limit, 
the requirements of this regulation are irrevocably effective unless the source 
obtains a federally enforceable permit limiting emissions to levels below the 
threshold limit by restricting production capacity or hours of operation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
5 
I.D. 
The owner or operator of a source not required to obtain a permit by provisions of 
law other than this section may apply for and shall be required to accept a permit 
as a condition of avoiding RACT requirements. Such permits shall contain only 
those conditions necessary to ensure the enforcement of the production capacity 
or hours of operation. 
II. 
General Provisions 
II.A. 
Definitions 
II.A.1. “8-Hour Ozone Control Area” means the Counties of Adams, Arapahoe, 
Boulder (includes part of Rocky Mountain National Park), Douglas, and 
Jefferson; the Cities and Counties of Denver and Broomfield; and the 
following portions of the Counties of Larimer and Weld: 
II.A.1.a. 
For Larimer County (includes part of Rocky Mountain 
National Park), that portion of the county that lies south of a line 
described as follows: Beginning at a point on Larimer County’s 
eastern boundary and Weld County’s western boundary intersected 
by 40 degrees, 42 minutes, and 47.1 seconds north latitude, 
proceed west to a point defined by the intersection of 40 degrees, 
42 minutes, 47.1 seconds north latitude and 105 degrees, 29 
minutes, and 40.0 seconds west longitude, thence proceed south 
on 105 degrees, 29 minutes, 40.0 seconds west longitude to the 
intersection with 40 degrees, 33 minutes and 17.4 seconds north 
latitude, thence proceed west on 40 degrees, 33 minutes, 17.4 
seconds north latitude until this line intersects Larimer County’s 
western boundary and Grand County’s eastern boundary. 
II.A.1.b. 
For Weld County, that portion of the county that lies south of 
a line described as follows: Beginning at a point on Weld County’s 
eastern boundary and Logan County’s western boundary 
intersected by 40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1 seconds north latitude, 
proceed west on 40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1 seconds north 
latitude until this line intersects Weld County’s western boundary 
and Larimer County’s eastern boundary. 
II.A.2. “Denver 1-Hour Ozone Attainment/Maintenance Area” means the 
Counties of Jefferson and Douglas, the Cities and Counties of Denver and 
Broomfield, Boulder County (excluding Rocky Mountain National Park), 
Adams County west of Kiowa Creek, and Arapahoe County west of Kiowa 
Creek. 
II.A.3. “Capture System” means the equipment used to contain, capture, or 
transport a pollutant to a control device. 
II.A.4. “Capture System Efficiency (vapor gathering system efficiency)” means 
the percent by weight of VOC emitted by an operation subject to this

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
6 
regulation, which is captured by the capture system and sent to the control 
device; i.e., (mass flow of VOC captured)/(mass flow of VOC emitted by 
the operation) x 100%. 
II.A.5. “Carbon Adsorption System” means a device containing adsorbent 
material, an inlet and outlet for exhaust gases and a system to regenerate 
the saturated adsorbent. 
II.A.6. “Condenser” means any heat transfer device used to liquefy vapors by 
removing their latent heats of vaporization. Such devices include, but are 
not limited to, shell and tube, coil, surface, or contact condensers. 
II.A.7. “Control Device” means a carbon adsorber, refrigeration system, 
condenser, flare, firebox or other device, which will reduce the 
concentration of VOC in a gas stream by adsorption, combustion, 
condensation, or other means of removal. 
II.A.8. “Control Device Efficiency” means the percent removal by weight of VOC 
by a control device; i.e., (mass flow of VOC into control device - mass flow 
of VOC out of control device)/(mass flow of VOC into control device) x 
100%. 
II.A.9. "Gasoline" means a petroleum distillate having a Reid vapor pressure 
between 208 and 1040 torr (4-20 psi), which is used as fuel for internal 
combustion engines. 
II.A.10. 
"Highly Volatile Organic Compound" is defined as a Volatile 
Organic Compound or mixture of such compounds with a true vapor 
pressure in excess of 570 torr (11 psia) at 20 C. 
II.A.11. 
“Organic Material” means a chemical compound of carbon, 
excluding carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, carbonic acid, metallic 
carbides or carbonates, and ammonium carbonate. 
II.A.12. 
(State Only) “Ozone Nonattainment Area” means any area 
designated as not in attainment with the ozone National Ambient Air 
Quality Standard as determined by the Environmental Protection Agency. 
II.A.13. 
“Northern Weld County” means the portion of the county that does 
not lie south of a line described as follows: Beginning at a point on Weld 
County’s eastern boundary and Logan County’s western boundary 
intersected by 40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1 seconds north latitude, 
proceed west on 40 degrees, 42 minutes, 47.1 seconds north latitude until 
this line intersects Weld County’s western boundary and Larimer County’s 
eastern boundary. 
II.A.14. 
“Petroleum Refinery” means any facility engaged in producing 
gasoline, aromatics, kerosene, distillate fuel oils, residual fuel oils,

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
7 
lubricants, asphalt, or other products through distillation of petroleum or 
through redistillation, cracking, rearrangement or reforming of unfinished 
petroleum derivatives. 
II.A.15. 
“Reid Vapor Pressure” means the absolute vapor pressure of 
volatile crude oil and volatile nonviscous petroleum liquids except liquefied 
petroleum gases as determined by the American Society for Testing and 
Materials, Part 17, 1973, D-323-72 (Reapproved 1977). 
II.A.16. 
“True Vapor Pressure” means the equilibrium partial pressure 
exerted by petroleum (or other) liquid. This may be determined by the 
methods described in American Petroleum Institute Bulletin 2517, 
“Evaporation Loss from Floating Roof Tanks,” 1962. 
II.A.17. 
“Vapor Recovery System” means a system that prevents release to 
the atmosphere of organic compounds emitted during the operation of any 
transfer, storage, or processing equipment. 
II.A.18. 
"Volatile Organic Compound (VOC)" means any compound of 
carbon, excluding carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, carbonic acid, 
metallic carbides or carbonates, and ammonium carbonate, which 
participates in atmospheric photochemical reactions, except those listed in 
Section II.B. as having negligible photochemical reactivity. VOC may be 
measured by a reference method, an equivalent method, an alternative 
method, or by procedures specified under 40 CFR Part 60 (July 1, 2022). 
A reference method, an equivalent method, or an alternative method, 
however, may also measure nonreactive organic compounds. In such 
cases, an owner or operator may exclude the compounds listed in Section 
II.B. when determining compliance with a standard if the amount of such 
compounds is accurately quantified, and such exclusion is approved by 
the Division. As a precondition to excluding such compounds as VOC, or 
at any time thereafter, the Division may require an owner or operator to 
provide monitoring or testing methods and results demonstrating, to the 
satisfaction of the Division, the amount of negligible-reactive compounds 
in the source's emissions. 
II.B. 
Exemptions 
Emissions of the organic compounds listed as having negligible photochemical reactivity 
in the common provisions definition of Negligibly Reactive Volatile Organic Compound 
are exempt from the provisions of this regulation. 
II.C. 
General Emission Limitation 
II.C.1. Existing Sources located in the 1-hour ozone nonattainment or attainment 
maintenance area or the 8-Hour Ozone Control Area

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
8 
II.C.1.a. 
All existing sources shall comply with the requirements set 
forth in this regulation. 
II.C.1.a.(i) 
Existing sources of VOC which are not subject to 
specific emission limitations set forth in this regulation, and 
which have the potential to emit 100 tons per year or more of 
VOC, shall utilize Reasonably Available Control Technology 
(RACT). 
II.C.1.a.(ii) 
The potential to emit of such sources shall be based 
on design capacity or maximum production rate, whichever 
is greater, 8,760 hours’/year operation, and before add-on 
controls. 
II.C.1.a.(iii) 
Owners or operators of such sources with potential 
emissions of 100 tons per year or more, but with actual 
emissions less than 100 tons per year may obtain a federally 
enforceable permit limiting emissions to actual rates by 
restricting production capacity or hours of operation, thus 
avoiding RACT requirements. The owner or operator of a 
source not required to obtain a permit by provisions of law 
other than this section may apply for and shall be required to 
accept a permit as a condition of avoiding RACT 
requirements. Such permits shall contain only those 
conditions necessary to ensure the enforcement of the 
production capacity or hours of operation. 
II.C.1.a.(iv) 
Such sources with potential emissions of 100 tons per 
year or more but with actual emissions of less than 50 tons 
per year, on a rolling 12-month total, may avoid RACT and 
permit requirements if the following requirements are met: 
II.C.1.a.(iv)(A) 
The owner or operator shall submit 
revised Air Pollutant Emission Notices (APENs) by 
April 1 of each year, which demonstrate that the 50 
tons per year threshold has not been exceeded. 
II.C.1.a.(iv)(B) 
The owner or operator shall maintain 
records on site which include monthly VOC use and 
monthly VOC emissions. The records shall include 
calculation of total emissions for each rolling 12-
month period. The records shall be made available to 
the Division for inspection upon request. 
II.C.1.a.(v) 
(State Only) Existing sources that are modified – 
undergo any physical change, or changed in the method of 
operation of a stationary source which increase VOC or NOx

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
9 
emissions – on or after March 30, 2008, shall utilize RACT 
control technologies pursuant to Regulation Number 7, 
Number 24, Number 25, and Number 26 and Regulation 
Number 3, Part B, Section III.D.2. upon recommencing 
operation. 
II.C.1.b. 
Provided however, that no existing source of VOC emissions 
employing emission controls on or within the six-month period 
preceding the effective date of this regulation may reduce its level 
of control of VOC emissions below that level of control actually 
achieved, even though such source may otherwise be subject to 
less stringent control requirements, except that no existing source 
shall be required to control emissions to an extent greater than that 
level of control which RACT would achieve. 
II.C.1.c. 
(State Only) Existing sources with potential emissions equal 
to or greater than 100 tons per year of volatile organic compound 
emissions shall submit a permit modification application that 
includes a revised APEN (or APENs) and a RACT analysis, to the 
Division, as follows: 
II.C.1.c.(i) 
(State Only) By October 30, 1991 if located in what 
was previously designated as the Denver 1-hour ozone 
nonattainment or attainment maintenance area; or 
II.C.1.c.(ii) 
(State Only) By April 30, 2009 or within one year after 
the date on which the area is first designated as being in 
nonattainment for ozone, whichever comes later, if they are 
located in the 8-hour Ozone Control Area and outside of the 
Denver 1-hour ozone nonattainment or attainment 
maintenance area. 
II.C.1.d. 
(State Only) Existing sources shall utilize RACT pursuant to 
Regulation Number 7, Number 24, Number 25, and Number 26 and 
Regulation Number 3, Part B, Section III.D.2. by whichever date 
comes later: 
II.C.1.d.(i) 
(State Only) October 30, 1991, if they are located in 
what was previously designated as the Denver 1-hour ozone 
nonattainment or attainment maintenance area; 
II.C.1.d.(ii) 
(State Only) November 21, 2011, if they are located in 
the 8-hour Ozone Control Area, and outside of the Denver 1-
hour ozone nonattainment or attainment maintenance area; 
II.C.1.d.(iii) 
(State Only) Three years after the date on which the 
area is first designated as being in nonattainment for ozone; 
or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
10 
II.C.1.d.(iv) 
(State Only) Two years after Division determination of 
case-by-case RACT pursuant to this Section II.C.1. The 
Division shall be deemed to have approved the RACT 
analysis for purposes of this Section II.C.1.d.(iv) if it does not 
object after eighteen months from having received a 
complete permit application. 
II.C.2. New Sources 
All new sources shall utilize controls representing RACT, pursuant to Regulation 
Number 7, Number 24, Number 25, and Number 26 and Regulation Number 3, 
Part B, Section III.D., upon commencement of operation. 
II.D. 
Alternative Control Plans and Test Methods 
II.D.1. Sources subject to specific requirements of this regulation shall submit for 
approval as a revision to the State Implementation Plan: 
II.D.1.a. 
Any alternative emission control plan or compliance method 
other than control options specifically allowed in the applicable 
regulation. Such alternative control plans shall provide control equal 
to or greater than the emission control or reduction required by the 
regulation, unless the source contends that the control level 
required by the regulation does not represent RACT for their 
specific source. 
II.D.1.b. 
Any alternative test method or procedure not specifically 
allowed in the applicable regulation. 
II.D.2. No alternative submitted pursuant to this Section II.D. is effective until the 
alternative is approved as a revision to the State Implementation Plan. 
II.E. 
REPEALED 
II.F. 
Provisions for Specific Processes 
II.F.1. The Gates Rubber Company Provision – REPEALED 
Appendix A Colorado Ozone Nonattainment or Attainment Maintenance Areas 
I. 
Chronology of Attainment Status 
Denver Metropolitan Area Only 
1978  
Denver 1-hour Ozone Nonattainment Area designation first becomes 
effective in 7-county Denver Metropolitan Area

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
11 
10/11/01 
Denver 1-hour Ozone Attainment Maintenance Area designation replaces 
non-attainment designation and becomes effective in 7-county Denver 
Metropolitan Area 
9/2/05  
1-hour Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard is Revoked in 
Colorado except for the Denver 1-hour Ozone Attainment Maintenance Area. 
Denver Metropolitan Area and North Front Range 
10/11/01 
1-hour attainment maintenance area replaces non-attainment designation 
for the Denver Metro Area/North Front Range Area 
4/15/04 
 
EPA designates the Denver Metro Area/North Front Range region 
as an 8-hour ozone non-attainment area, designation deferred due to the 
implementation of the Early Action Compact 
11/20/07 
Denver 8-hour ozone non-attainment designation (1997 NAAQS) 
becomes effective in 9 county Denver Metropolitan Area 
7/20/2012 
Denver 8-hour ozone non-attainment designation (2008 NAAQS) 
becomes effective in 9 county Denver Metropolitan Area 
8/3/2018 
Denver 8-hour ozone nonattainment designation (2015 NAAQS) becomes 
effective in 9 county Denver Metropolitan Area 
12/31/2021 EPA modification of the 9 county Denver Metropolitan Area 8-hour ozone 
nonattainment designation (2015 NAAQS) to include the portion of northern Weld 
County defined in Part A 
II. 
Maps 
Denver Metropolitan Area and North Front Range (2008 Ozone NAAQS)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
12 
Denver Metropolitan Area and North Front Range and northern Weld County 
(2015 ozone NAAQS)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
13

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
14 
PART B 
Storage, Transfer, and Disposal of Volatile Organic Compounds and 
Petroleum Liquids and Petroleum Processing and Refining 
I. 
General Requirements for Storage and Transfer of Volatile Organic 
Compounds 
I.A. 
Maintenance and Operation of Storage Tanks and Related Equipment 
All storage tank gauging devices, anti-rotation devices, accesses, seals, hatches, roof 
drainage systems, support structures, and pressure relief valves shall be maintained 
and operated to prevent detectable vapor loss except when opened, actuated, or used 
for necessary and proper activities (e.g. maintenance). Such opening, actuation, or use 
shall be limited so as to minimize vapor loss. 
Detectable vapor loss shall be determined visually, by touch, by presence of odor, or 
using a portable hydrocarbon analyzer. When an analyzer is used, detectable vapor 
loss means a VOC concentration exceeding 10,000 ppm. Testing and monitoring shall 
be conducted as in Part B, Section VI.C.3. 
I.B. 
Transfer (excluding Petroleum Liquids) 
Except as otherwise provided in this regulation, all volatile organic compounds 
transferred to any tank, container, or vehicle compartment with a capacity exceeding 
212 liters (56 gallons), shall be transferred using submerged or bottom filling equipment. 
For top loading, the fill tube shall reach within six inches of the bottom of the tank 
compartment. For bottom-fill operations, the inlet shall be flush with the tank bottom. 
I.C. 
Beer production and associated beer container storage and transfer operations 
involving volatile organic compounds with a true vapor pressure of less than 1.5 
psia actual conditions are exempt from the provisions of Section I.B. 
II. 
Storage of Highly Volatile Organic Compounds 
II.A. 
Highly volatile organic compounds shall be stored: 
II.A.1. In a pressure tank which is at all times capable of maintaining working 
pressures sufficient to prevent vapor loss to the ambient air; or 
II.A.2. With methods and/or equipment approved by the Division in writing 
pursuant to the request of the person owning or operating the storage 
facility. 
II.B. 
Vapor loss shall be determined visually, by presence of frost or condensation at 
the point of leakage, or using a portable hydrocarbon analyzer. When an 
analyzer is used, vapor loss means a VOC concentration exceeding 10,000 ppm 
and testing and monitoring procedures shall be conducted as in Part B, Section 
VI.C.3.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
15 
III. 
Disposal of Volatile Organic Compounds 
III.A. No person shall dispose of volatile organic compounds by evaporation or spillage 
unless RACT is utilized. 
III.B. No owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal, bulk gasoline plant, or gasoline 
dispensing facility as defined in Part B, Sections IV.C.2., IV.C.3. and VII.A.3., 
shall permit gasoline to be intentionally spilled, discarded in sewers, stored in 
open containers, or disposed of in any other manner that would result in 
evaporation. 
IV. 
Storage and Transfer of Petroleum Liquid 
IV.A. General Requirements 
IV.A.1. 
No person shall build, install, or permit the building or installation of 
any rotating pump or compressor handling any type of petroleum liquid 
unless said pump or compressor is equipped with mechanical seals or 
other equipment of equal efficiency. If reciprocating-type pumps and 
compressors are used, they shall be equipped with packing glands 
properly installed, in good working order, and properly maintained so that 
no detectable emissions occur from the drain recovery systems. 
IV.A.2. 
Definitions 
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply: 
IV.A.2.a. 
Repealed. 
IV.A.2.b. 
"Crude Oil" means a naturally occurring mixture which 
consists of hydrocarbons, sulfur, nitrogen or oxygen derivatives of 
hydrocarbons, and which is a liquid at standard conditions. 
IV.A.2.c. 
"Custody Transfer" means the transfer of produced crude oil 
and/or condensate, after processing and/or treating in the 
producing operations, from storage tanks or automatic transfer 
facilities to pipelines or any other forms of transportation. 
IV.A.2.d. 
"EFR Tank" means a storage vessel having an external 
floating roof. 
IV.A.2.e. 
"External Floating Roof" means a storage vessel cover in an 
open top tank consisting of a double deck or pontoon single deck 
which rests upon and is supported by the petroleum liquid being 
contained and is equipped with a closure seal or seals to close the 
space between the roof edge and tank wall.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
16 
IV.A.2.f. 
“Liquid-Mounted Seal" means a primary seal mounted in 
continuous contact with the contained liquid and which occupies an 
annular space between the inner tank wall and the perimeter of the 
floating roof. 
IV.A.2.g. 
"Petroleum Liquid" means crude oil, condensate and any 
finished or intermediate product manufactured or extracted in a 
petroleum refinery. 
IV.A.2.h. 
"Shoe Seal" means a primary seal employing a metallic 
band (called a shoe) which is held against the vertical inner-wall of 
the tank, concentric with the perimeter of the floating roof. 
IV.A.2.i. 
"Vapor Balance System" means a combination of pipes or 
hoses that create a closed system between the vapor spaces of an 
unloading tank and a receiving tank such that vapors displaced 
from the receiving tank are transferred to the tank being unloaded. 
IV.A.2.j. 
 
“Vapor Collection System” means a vapor transport 
system which uses direct displacement by the gasoline being 
transferred to force vapors from the vessel being loaded into either 
a vessel being unloaded or a vapor holding tank. 
IV.A.2.k. 
"Vapor-Mounted Seal" means a primary seal mounted so 
there is an annular vapor space underneath the seal. The annular 
vapor space is bounded by the bottom of the primary seal, the 
liquid surface, the floating roof, and the tank wall (thus excluding 
shoe seals). 
IV.A.2.l. 
 
"Waxy, Heavy Pour Crude Oil" means a crude oil with 
a pour point of 10°C (50°F) or higher as determined by the 
American Society for Testing and Materials Standard D97-66, "Test 
for Pour Point of Petroleum Oils." 
IV.B. Storage of Petroleum Liquid 
IV.B.1. 
Exemptions 
IV.B.1.a. 
Tanks or other containers used to store the following liquids 
are exempt from the provisions of Sections IV.B.2. and IV.B.3.: 
IV.B.1.a.(i) 
Diesel Fuels 1-D, 2-D, and 4-D as defined in ASTM 
D975-78. 
IV.B.1.a.(ii) Fuel Oils #1, #2, #3, #4, and #5, as defined in ASTM 
D396-78.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
17 
IV.B.1.a.(iii) Gas Turbine Fuels 1-GT through 4-GT as defined in 
ASTM D2880-78. 
IV.B.1.b. 
The following underground storage facilities are exempt from 
Section IV.B.2.: 
IV.B.1.b.(i) 
Underground tanks if the annual sum total of the 
volume of liquid removed from the tank plus the sum of the 
volume of liquid added to it does not exceed twice the 
operational volume of the tank (i.e., a maximum of one 
turnover per year is allowed). 
IV.B.1.b.(ii) Subsurface caverns or porous rock reservoirs. 
IV.B.1.b.(iii) Horizontal underground tanks storing JP-4 Jet Fuel. 
IV.B.2. 
Storage of petroleum liquid in tanks greater than 151,412 liters 
(40,000 gallons) 
IV.B.2.a. 
Storage of petroleum liquid in fixed-roof tanks. 
IV.B.2.a.(i) 
The owner or operator of a fixed-roof tank used for 
storage of petroleum liquids which have a true vapor 
pressure greater than 33.6 torr (0.65 psia) at 20°C (or, 
alternatively, a Reid vapor pressure greater than 1.30 
pounds - (67.2 torr) but not greater than 570 torr (11.0 psia) 
at 20°C, and which are stored in any tank or other container 
of more than 151,412 liters (40,000 gallons) shall ensure that 
the tank at all times meets the following conditions: 
IV.B.2.a.(i)(A) 
The tank has been equipped with a 
pontoon-type, or double-deck type, floating roof or an 
internal floating cover which rests on the surface of 
the liquid contents and which is equipped with a 
closure seal or seals to close the space between the 
edge of the floating roof (or cover) and tank walls; or 
IV.B.2.a.(i)(B) 
The tank has been equipped with a 
vapor gathering system capable of collecting the 
petroleum liquid vapors discharged, together with a 
vapor recovery or disposal system capable of 
processing such vapors so as to prevent their 
emission into the atmosphere. 
IV.B.2.a.(i)(C) 
Control devices shall meet the 
applicable requirements, including recordkeeping, of 
Regulation Number 25, Part B, Sections I.A.3.a., b., 
c., and e., and I.A.8.a. and b.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
18 
IV.B.2.a.(i)(D) 
The applicable EPA reference methods 
1 through 4, and 25, of 40 CFR Part 60 (March 23, 
2021) shall be used to determine the efficiency of 
control devices. 
IV.B.2.a.(i)(E) 
The owner or operator shall maintain 
records for at least two years of the type, average 
monthly storage temperature, and true vapor pressure 
of all petroleum liquids stored in tanks not equipped 
with an internal floating roof or cover or other control 
pursuant to Regulation Number 24, Sections 
IV.B.2.a.(i)(A) or IV.B.2.a.(i)(B) or Part A, Section II.D. 
IV.B.2.a.(ii) No owner or operator of a fixed-roof tank equipped 
with an internal floating roof or cover shall permit the use of 
such tank unless: 
IV.B.2.a.(ii)(A) 
The tank is maintained such that there 
are no visible holes, tears, or other openings in the 
seal or any seal fabric or materials; and 
IV.B.2.a.(ii)(B) 
All openings, except stub drains, are 
equipped with covers, lids, or seals such that: 
IV.B.2.a.(ii)(B)(1) 
The cover, lid, or seal is in the 
closed position at all times except when in 
actual use; 
IV.B.2.a.(ii)(B)(2) 
Automatic bleeder vents are 
closed at all times except when the roof is 
floated off or landed on the roof leg supports; 
and 
IV.B.2.a.(ii)(B)(3) 
Rim vents, if provided, are set to 
open when the roof is being floated off the roof 
leg supports or at the manufacturer's 
recommended setting. 
IV.B.2.a.(iii) The operator of a fixed-roof tank equipped with an 
internal floating roof shall: 
IV.B.2.a.(iii)(A) 
Perform a routine inspection through the 
tank roof hatches at least once every six months; 
IV.B.2.a.(iii)(A)(1) 
During the routine inspection, the 
operator shall measure for detectable vapor 
loss inside the hatch. Detectable vapor loss

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
19 
means a VOC concentration exceeding 10,000 
ppm, using a portable hydrocarbon analyzer. 
IV.B.2.a.(iii)(B) 
Perform a complete inspection of the 
cover and seal whenever the tank is out of service, 
whenever the routine inspection required in Section 
IV.B.2.a.(iii)(A) reveals detectable vapor loss, and at 
least once every ten years, and shall notify the 
Division in writing before such an inspection. 
IV.B.2.a.(iii)(C) 
Ensure during inspections that there are 
no visible holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or 
any seal fabric or materials; that the cover is floating 
uniformly on or above the liquid surface; that there are 
no visible defects in the surface of the cover or liquid 
accumulated on the cover; and that the seal is 
uniformly in place around the circumference of the 
cover between the cover and the tank wall. If these 
items are not met, the owner or operator shall repair 
the items or empty and remove the storage vessel 
from service within 45 days. If a failure that is 
detected during inspections required in this section 
cannot be repaired within 45 days and if the vessel 
cannot be emptied within 45 days, a 30-day extension 
may be requested from the Division in writing. Such a 
request must document that alternative storage 
capacity is unavailable and specify a schedule of 
actions the owner or operator will take that will assure 
that the items will be repaired or the vessel will be 
emptied as soon as possible; 
IV.B.2.a.(iii)(D) 
Maintain records for at least two years 
of the results of all inspections. 
IV.B.2.b. 
Above ground storage tanks used for the storage of 
petroleum liquid shall have all external surfaces coated with a 
material which has a reflectivity for solar radiation of 0.7 or more. 
Methods A or B of ASTM E424 shall be used to determine 
reflectivity. Alternatively, any untinted white paint may be used 
which is specified by the manufacturer for such use. 
This provision shall not apply to written symbols or logograms 
applied to the external surface of the container for purposes of 
identification provided such symbols do not cover more than 20% of 
the exposed top and side surface area of the container or more 
than 18.6 square meters (200 square feet), whichever is less.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
20 
IV.B.2.c. 
Seals on External Floating Roof Tanks 
IV.B.2.c.(i) 
General Provisions 
IV.B.2.c.(i)(A) 
Applicability 
This section applies to all petroleum liquid storage vessels 
equipped with external floating roofs, having capacities 
greater than 150,000 liters (40,000 gallons) that are located 
in ozone nonattainment areas. 
IV.B.2.c.(i)(B) 
Exemptions 
IV.B.2.c.(i)(B)(1) 
Total Exemption 
The following categories of EFR tanks are exempt 
from the requirement of Section IV.B.2.c., except for 
the applicable recordkeeping requirements of Section 
IV.B.2.c.(ii)(C). 
IV.B.2.c.(i)(B)(1)(a) EFR tanks which store any 
material whose true vapor pressure as 
stored never exceeds 67 torr (1.3 psia). 
IV.B.2.c.(i)(B)(1)(b) Tanks less than 1,600,000 
liters (10,000 barrels) which are used to 
store crude oil and condensate prior to 
custody transfer. 
IV.B.2.c.(i)(B)(2) 
Limited Exemptions 
The following are exempt from both secondary seal 
and secondary seal inspection requirements but shall 
meet the equipment/procedure provisions in Section 
IV.B.2.c.(ii)(A)(1), the semi-annual inspection 
provisions of Section IV.B.2.c.(ii)(B), and the record 
keeping provisions of Section IV.B.2.c.(ii)(C). 
IV.B.2.c.(i)(B)(2)(a) Those tanks storing 
petroleum liquid between 67 and 207 
torr (1.3 to 4.0 psia) maximum true 
vapor pressure (as stored) which are of 
welded construction and which have 
one of the following primary seals: 
IV.B.2.c.(i)(B)(2)(a)(I) 
metallic shoe 
seal

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
21 
IV.B.2.c.(i)(B)(2)(a)(II) 
liquid 
mounted, resilient seal 
IV.B.2.c.(i)(B)(2)(a)(III) 
liquid 
mounted, liquid filled seal 
IV.B.2.c.(i)(B)(2)(b) Any tank storing waxy, 
heavy-pour crude oil. 
IV.B.2.c.(ii) 
General Requirements 
IV.B.2.c.(ii)(A) 
An operator of an EFR tank storing 
petroleum liquids with true vapor pressure (as stored) 
above 67 torr (1.3 psia) shall equip the tank as follows 
and observe the following procedures: 
IV.B.2.c.(ii)(A)(1) 
Equipment 
IV.B.2.c.(ii)(A)(1)(a) Drains: roof drains which 
are designed to empty directly into the 
stored product shall be provided with 
slotted-membrane fabric covers or 
equivalent covers which cover at least 
90 percent of the area of the opening. 
IV.B.2.c.(ii)(A)(1)(b) Openings: except for 
automatic bleeder vents, rim space 
vents, and leg sleeves, all openings 
shall be equipped with: 
IV.B.2.c.(ii)(A)(1)(b)(I) 
Projections 
into the tank which remain below 
the liquid surface at all times; and 
IV.B.2.c.(ii)(A)(1)(b)(II) 
Covers, 
seals, or lids. 
IV.B.2.c.(ii)(A)(2) 
Procedures 
IV.B.2.c.(ii)(A)(2)(a) Covers, seals and lids 
shall be kept closed except when the 
openings are in actual use. 
IV.B.2.c.(ii)(A)(2)(b) Automatic bleeder vents 
shall be kept closed at all times except 
when the roof is floated off or landed on 
roof leg supports.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
22 
IV.B.2.c.(ii)(A)(2)(c) Rim vents shall be set to 
open at the manufacturer's 
recommended setting or, alternatively, 
only when the roof is being floated off 
the leg supports. 
IV.B.2.c.(ii)(B) 
Inspections 
The operator of an EFR tank subject to this Section IV.B.2.c. 
shall: 
IV.B.2.c.(ii)(B)(1) 
Perform routine inspections at 
least once every six months in order to ensure 
compliance with Section IV.B.2.c.(ii)(B)(2). The 
inspections shall include a visual inspection of 
the secondary seal gap if equipped with a 
secondary seal. 
IV.B.2.c.(ii)(B)(2) 
Ensure that all seal closure 
devices meet the following requirements: 
IV.B.2.c.(ii)(B)(2)(a) There are no visible holes, 
tears, or other openings in the seal(s) or 
seal fabric; and 
IV.B.2.c.(ii)(B)(2)(b) The seal(s) are intact and 
uniformly in place around the 
circumference of the floating roof and 
the tank wall. 
IV.B.2.c.(ii)(C) 
Records 
IV.B.2.c.(ii)(C)(1) 
Operators shall: 
IV.B.2.c.(ii)(C)(1)(a) Maintain records of the 
average monthly storage temperature, 
the Reid vapor pressure of the liquid 
and the type of liquid stored for all EFR 
tanks lacking secondary seals and 
receiving petroleum liquids with a true 
vapor pressure of 1.0 psi (7.0kPa) or 
greater; and 
IV.B.2.c.(ii)(C)(1)(b) Maintain records of the 
results of the inspections required 
herein.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
23 
IV.B.2.c.(ii)(C)(2) 
Copies of all records specified by 
this Section IV.B.2.c.(ii)(C) shall be retained by 
the operator for a minimum of two years after 
the date on which the record was made. 
IV.B.2.c.(iii) Secondary Seal Requirements 
IV.B.2.c.(iii)(A) 
General 
No owner or operator of an EFR tank (storing petroleum 
liquids) not specifically exempted in Section IV.B.2.c.(i)(B) 
shall store that petroleum liquid unless such vessel is 
equipped with a continuous secondary seal extending from 
the rim of the floating roof to the tank wall (i.e., a rim-
mounted secondary seal). 
IV.B.2.c.(iii)(B) 
Vapor-Mounted Seals 
For EFR tanks required to have a secondary seal and which 
have a vapor-mounted primary seal: 
IV.B.2.c.(iii)(B)(1) 
An annual inspection shall be 
made of the total gap area between the 
secondary seal and the wall of the tank in 
accordance with the method in 
IV.B.2.c.(iii)(B)(3). 
IV.B.2.c.(iii)(B)(2) 
This total gap area shall not 
exceed 21.2 cm2/meter diameter (1.0 in2/ft. 
diameter). 
IV.B.2.c.(iii)(B)(3) 
Method to determine gap area: 
IV.B.2.c.(iii)(B)(3)(a) Physically measure the 
length and width of all gaps around the 
entire circumference of the secondary 
seal in each place where a 0.32 cm (1/8 
in.) uniform diameter probe passes 
freely (without forcing or binding against 
the seal) between the seal and the tank 
wall; and, 
IV.B.2.c.(iii)(B)(3)(b) Sum the area of the 
individual gaps. 
IV.B.3. 
Storage of petroleum liquid in tanks of or less than 151,412 liters 
(40,000 gallons) capacity.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
24 
IV.B.3.a. 
Tanks or containers used to store liquids with true vapor 
pressure at 20°C of less than 78 torr (1.5 psia) or greater than 570 
torr (11.0 psia) at 20°C are exempt from the provisions of this 
Section IV.B.3. 
IV.B.3.b. 
The owner or operator of storage tanks at a gasoline 
dispensing facility (service station) or other facility not addressed in 
Sections IV.C.2. or IV.C.3., which receives and stores petroleum 
liquid, shall not allow the transfer of petroleum liquid from any 
delivery vessel into any tank unless the tank is equipped with a 
submerged fill pipe and all vapors displaced from the storage tank 
are transferred to the delivery vessel being unloaded using a 
properly maintained, functioning, and leak-tight vapor collection 
system, as in accordance with applicable provisions of Appendix B 
and Section VII., if the tank: 
IV.B.3.b.(i) 
Has a rated manufacturer's capacity of 2,082 liters 
(550 gallons) or more and was installed after November 7, 
1973, (except for storage tanks below 550-gallon capacity 
used exclusively for agricultural use; however, these must 
have a submerged fill pipe), or 
IV.B.3.b.(ii) Has a rated manufacturer's capacity of 7,571 liters 
(2,000 gallons) or more and was installed before November 
7, 1973. 
IV.B.3.c. 
Tanks equipped with a submerged fill pipe shall meet the 
specifications of Appendix B. 
IV.B.3.d. 
The owner or operator of storage tanks at a gasoline 
dispensing facility must install and operate one or more of the 
following 
IV.B.3.d.(i) 
A vapor collection system designed and operated in 
accordance with a vapor-tight line from the storage tank to 
delivery vessel. 
IV.B.3.d.(ii) A refrigerator-condensation system or equivalent 
designed to recover at least 90 percent by weight of the 
organic compounds in the displaced vapor. 
IV.B.3.e. 
The owner or operator shall ensure that operating 
procedures are used so that gasoline cannot be transferred into the 
tank unless the vapor collection system is installed and operated to 
ensure the system is leak-tight during gasoline transfer. 
IV.B.3.f. 
The vapor collection system shall meet the specifications of 
Appendix B and applicable requirements of Section VII.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
25 
IV.B.3.g. 
Control devices shall meet the applicable requirements, 
including recordkeeping, of Regulation Number 25, Part B, Sections 
I.A.3.a., b., c., and e., and I.A.8.a. and b. 
IV.B.3.h. 
The applicable EPA reference methods 1 through 4, and 25, 
of 40 CFR Part 60 (March 23, 2021) shall be used to determine the 
efficiency of control devices. 
IV.C. Transfer of Petroleum Liquid 
IV.C.1. 
Exemptions 
Transfer operations involving petroleum liquid with true vapor pressures at 20°C 
of less than 78 torr (1.5 psia) or greater than 570 torr (11.0 psia) shall be exempt 
from the provisions of this Section IV.C. 
IV.C.2. 
Loading Facilities Classified as Terminals 
IV.C.2.a. 
A terminal is defined as a petroleum liquid storage and 
distribution facility that has an average daily throughput of more 
than 76,000 liters of gasoline (20,000 gallons), which is loaded 
directly into transport vehicles. A rolling, 30-day average of 
throughput shall be used to determine the applicability of this 
Section IV.C.2. 
IV.C.2.b. 
The owner or operator of a terminal subject to this section 
shall equip the terminal with proper loading equipment and shall 
follow the loading procedures listed: 
IV.C.2.b.(i) 
Install dry-break loading couplings to prevent 
petroleum liquid loss during uncoupling from vehicles. 
IV.C.2.b.(ii) Install a vapor collection and disposal system which 
gathers vapor transferred from vehicles being loaded. The 
system shall include devices to prevent the release of vapor 
from vapor recovery hoses not in use. 
IV.C.2.b.(iii) Use operating procedures to ensure that petroleum 
liquid cannot be transferred unless the vapor collection 
equipment is in use. 
IV.C.2.b.(iv) Provide for the prevention of overfilling of transport 
vehicles with loading pump shut-offs, set stop meters, or 
comparable equipment. 
IV.C.2.b.(v) Operate all recovery and disposal equipment at a 
back pressure less than the pressure relief valve setting of 
transport vehicles.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
26 
IV.C.2.b.(vi) Prevent the release of petroleum liquid on the ground 
from transport vehicles. Provision shall be made to remove 
any undelivered petroleum liquid with closed drainage 
devices. 
IV.C.2.b.(vii) Maintain and operate final recovery and disposal 
equipment or control devices so as to emit no more than 80 
milligrams of volatile organic compounds per liter of gasoline 
being loaded. Such disposal devices shall be approved by 
the Division. 
IV.C.2.b.(viii) Prevent loading of petroleum liquid into transport 
vehicles which do not have valid leak-tight test certification 
as required in Section IV.D. 
IV.C.2.b.(ix) Follow all control procedures to prevent leaks as 
specified in Section VII. 
IV.C.2.c. 
Control devices shall meet the applicable requirements, 
including recordkeeping of Regulation Number 25, Part B, Sections 
I.A.3.a., b., c., and e., and I.A.8.a. and b. 
IV.C.2.d. 
The applicable methods of 40 CFR 60.503 (December 19, 
2003), or EPA reference methods 1 through 4, 25A, and 25B of 40 
CFR Part 60 (March 23, 2021) shall be used to determine the 
efficiency of control devices. 
IV.C.2.e. 
The method set forth in Appendix A of "Control of 
Hydrocarbons from Tank Truck Gasoline Loading Terminals" 
October 1977, EPA-450/2-77-026 shall be used to test emission 
points other than control devices. 
IV.C.3. 
Loading Facilities Classified as Bulk Plants 
IV.C.3.a. 
A bulk plant is defined as a petroleum liquid storage and 
distribution facility that has an average daily throughput of 76,000 
liters of gasoline (20,000 gallons) or less, which is loaded directly 
into transport trucks. (As used herein, "bulk plant" does not include 
service stations nor separate operations within petroleum liquid 
distribution facilities which pump only into fuel tanks fueling motor 
vehicles. Both such operations are regulated by Section IV.B.3.). A 
rolling 30-day average of throughput shall be used to determine the 
applicability of this regulation. 
IV.C.3.b. 
The owner or operator of a bulk storage plant subject to this 
section shall install a vapor balance system to return vapors to the 
incoming transport trucks during the filling of tanks controlled under

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
27 
Section IV.B.3. The vapor balance system must be designed and 
operated in accord with the provisions of Appendix C.) 
IV.C.3.c. 
The owner or operator of a bulk plant which serves storage 
tanks which are required to collect and recover vapor as prescribed 
in Section IV.B.3. shall: 
IV.C.3.c.(i) 
Install and operate vapor collection and return 
equipment on any transport vehicles used to deliver to 
controlled tanks, and 
IV.C.3.c.(ii) Install and operate vapor collection and return 
equipment at loading facilities to collect vapors during 
loading of tank compartments of outbound transport trucks 
and return these vapors to the bulk plant storage tanks, 
using a vapor balance system. 
IV.C.3.c.(iii) Assure that transport trucks and loading facilities 
conform to the applicable provisions of Sections IV.C.2. and 
IV.C.4. 
IV.C.3.d. 
The owner or operator of a bulk plant which serves only 
storage tanks exempted from the provisions of Section IV.B.3.b. by 
reason of their small size or location in an attainment area shall 
load outbound transport trucks using equipment that provides for 
top loading of the petroleum liquid into the vehicle tank 
compartments through an extended fill tube which reaches within 
15.24 cm (6 in.) of the bottom of the tank compartment. 
IV.C.3.e. 
The owner or operator of a bulk plant subject to this section 
shall ensure that petroleum liquid cannot be transferred unless the 
vapor collection equipment is in use. 
IV.C.3.f. 
The owner or operator of a bulk plant subject to this section 
shall follow all procedures to prevent leaks as specified in Section 
VII. 
IV.C.4. 
Transport Vehicles 
IV.C.4.a. 
Rail cars shall be loaded only at facilities which allow for the 
following: 
IV.C.4.a.(i) 
A submerged fill pipe which reaches within 15.24 cm 
(6 in.) of the bottom of the tank. 
IV.C.4.a.(ii) Vapor collection and/or disposal equipment 
designated and operated to recover vapors displaced during 
the loading of the rail car.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
28 
IV.C.4.a.(iii) A vapor-tight seal around the tank car hatch and the 
loading equipment. 
IV.C.4.b. 
The owner or operator of petroleum transport trucks which 
serve locations required to be equipped with vapor recovery 
equipment shall load only at facilities capable of disposing of 
collected vapors. The owner or operator shall assure that such 
vehicles possess the proper equipment and that work practices are 
followed so that: 
IV.C.4.b.(i) 
Dry-break loading and unloading nozzles are used 
and are compatible with those required at loading facilities. 
IV.C.4.b.(ii) Vapor recovery hoses are connected at all times 
during unloading or loading of petroleum distillate. 
IV.C.4.b.(iii) Transport trailers and vehicle tanks are operated and 
maintained to prevent detectable hydrocarbon vapor loss 
during loading, transport and delivery. 
IV.C.4.b.(iv) Compartment dome lids are closed and locked during 
transfers of petroleum liquid. Such lids may be opened for 
the purpose of certifying the accuracy of a delivery only prior 
to and after such delivery. 
IV.C.4.b.(v) Hoses, couplings, and valves are maintained to 
prevent dripping, leaking, or other liquid or vapor loss during 
loading or unloading. 
IV.D. Control of Volatile Organic Compound Leaks from Gasoline Transport Trucks 
IV.D.1. 
General Provisions 
IV.D.1.a. 
Applicability 
This section is applicable to all gasoline transport trucks equipped for 
gasoline vapor collection which receive or dispense gasoline at terminals, 
bulk plants, or gasoline dispensing facilities located in the nonattainment 
areas. 
IV.D.1.b. 
Definitions 
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply: 
IV.D.1.b.(i) 
"Gasoline Transport Truck" means a tank truck or 
tank trailer equipped with a storage tank and used for the 
transport of gasoline from sources of supply to stationary

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
29 
storage tanks of gasoline dispensing facilities (e.g., service 
stations), bulk gasoline plants, or gasoline terminals. 
IV.D.1.b.(ii) "Vapor Collection System" means a vapor transport 
system which uses direct displacement by the gasoline 
being transferred to force vapors from the vessel being 
loaded into a vessel being unloaded or into a vapor holding 
tank. 
IV.D.2. 
Provisions for Specific Processes 
IV.D.2.a. 
No terminal operator, when monitoring the gasoline loading 
operation and no owner or operator of a gasoline transport truck 
shall allow a gasoline transport truck subject to this Section IV.D. to 
be filled with a VOC with Reid Vapor Pressure of 4.0 or greater 
unless the gasoline tank truck: 
IV.D.2.a.(i) 
Is tested annually according to the test procedure in 
EPA Method 27 (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A-8) (October 
17, 2000). Except as provided in Section IV.D.2.c., testing 
must be completed prior to the onset of the summer ozone 
season (test October through April). In addition, a visual 
inspection, as detailed in Section IV.D.3.b. must be 
performed at least once every six months. 
IV.D.2.a.(i)(A) 
The test must be conducted using a 
time period (t) for the pressure and vacuum tests of 5 
minutes. 
IV.D.2.a.(i)(B) 
The initial pressure (Pi) for the pressure 
test must be 460 mm H2O (18 in. H2O), gauge. 
IV.D.2.a.(i)(C) 
The initial vacuum (Vi) for the vacuum 
test must be 150 mm H2O (6 in. H2O), gauge. 
IV.D.2.a.(i)(D) 
The maximum allowable pressure and 
vacuum changes must not exceed the values in Table 
1. 
IV.D.2.a.(i)(E) 
After completing the tests under 
Sections IV.D.2.a.(i)(A) through (D), the tank’s internal 
vapor valve must be pressure tested. 
IV.D.2.a.(i)(E)(1) 
Use the procedures in EPA 
Method 27 (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A-8) 
(October 17, 2000) to repressurize the tank to 
460 mm H2O (18 in. H2O), gauge.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
30 
IV.D.2.a.(i)(E)(2) 
Close the tank’s internal vapor 
valve(s), thereby isolating the vapor return line 
and manifold from the tank. 
IV.D.2.a.(i)(E)(3) 
Relieve the pressure in the vapor 
return line to atmospheric pressure, then reseal 
the line. 
IV.D.2.a.(i)(E)(4) 
After 5 minutes, record the gauge 
pressure in the vapor return line and manifold. 
The maximum allowable 5-minute pressure 
increase is 130 mm H2O (5 in. H2O). 
Table 1 - Allowable Cargo Tank Test Pressure or Vacuum Change 
Cargo tank or 
compartment capacity, 
liters (gal) 
Annual certification-
allowable pressure or 
vacuum change in 5 
minutes, mm H2O (in. 
H2O) 
Allowable pressure 
change in 5 minutes 
at any time, mm 
H2O (in. H2O) 
9,464 or more (2,500 or 
more) 
25 (1.0) 
64 (2.5) 
9,463 to 5,678 (2,499 to 
1,500) 
38 (1.5) 
76 (3.0) 
5,679 to 3,785 (1,499 to 
1,000) 
51 (2.0) 
89 (3.5) 
3,782 or less (999 or less) 
64 (2.5) 
102 (4.0) 
IV.D.2.a.(ii) Passes a retest within twenty (20) days if it does not 
meet the criteria of Section IV.D.2.a.(i). 
IV.D.2.b. 
Monitoring 
IV.D.2.b.(i) 
The Division may, at any time, monitor a gasoline 
tank truck vapor collection system to confirm continued 
compliance with Section IV.D.2.a. 
IV.D.2.b.(ii) Within fifteen (15) days after an exceedance is 
detected a tank shall pass a pressure/vacuum test per EPA 
Method 27 (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A-8 (October 17, 
2000)). 
IV.D.2.c. 
Alternative Testing Schedule

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
31 
IV.D.2.c.(i) 
Beginning February 14, 2023, the testing required in 
Section IV.D.2.a. may be completed during the months May 
through September if the testing facility controls the purged 
vapors from all gasoline transport trucks tested or purged for 
other reasons (e.g., maintenance, repair) at the facility by 
routing emissions to and operating air pollution control 
equipment that has a VOC control efficiency of at least 95%. 
IV.D.2.c.(i)(A) 
Emission controls must be utilized on all 
vessels purged throughout the entire calendar year. 
IV.D.2.c.(i)(B) 
If a combustion device is used, it must 
have a design destruction efficiency of at least 98%. 
IV.D.2.c.(i)(C) 
All combustion devices used to control 
emissions must be equipped with and operate an 
auto-igniter. 
IV.D.2.c.(i)(D) 
Weekly visual inspections 
IV.D.2.c.(i)(D)(1) 
Inspection or monitoring of each 
combustion device to ensure that it is 
operating, including that the pilot light is lit and 
the auto-igniter is properly functioning. 
IV.D.2.c.(i)(D)(2) 
Inspection or monitoring of each 
combustion device to ensure that the valves for 
the piping of gas to the pilot light are open and 
functioning properly. 
IV.D.2.c.(i)(D)(3) 
Inspection or monitoring of each 
combustion device to ensure the burner tray is 
not visibly clogged. 
IV.D.2.c.(i)(D)(4) 
Inspection of each combustion 
device for the presence or absence of smoke. 
If smoke is observed, either the equipment 
must be immediately shut-in to investigate the 
potential cause for smoke and perform repairs, 
as necessary, or EPA Method 22 must be 
conducted to determine whether visible 
emissions are present for a period of at least 
one (1) minute in fifteen (15) minutes. 
IV.D.2.c.(i)(E) 
Enclosed combustion devices must be 
performance tested every five (5) years, beginning 
five (5) years after the date the combustion device

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
32 
commenced operation or the date of the previous 
performance test. 
IV.D.2.c.(ii) Recordkeeping. The testing facility must maintain 
records for a period of five (5) years and make them 
available to the Division upon request. 
IV.D.2.c.(ii)(A) 
Records of gasoline transport truck 
vapor purging events including the date and duration 
of the purging event and the reason for the vapor 
purging (e.g., testing, maintenance, repair). 
IV.D.2.c.(ii)(B) 
Records of the inspections required in 
Section IV.D.2.c.(i)(C) including the time and date of 
each inspection, a description of any problems 
observed, a description and date of any corrective 
action(s) taken, and name of employee or third party 
performing corrective action(s). 
IV.D.2.c.(ii)(C) 
Records of the date and result of any 
EPA Method 22 test or investigation. 
IV.D.2.c.(ii)(D) 
Records of performance tests including 
the date of the test, a copy of the test protocol 
followed, documentation of the methods and results of 
the test, and the date and description of any actions 
taken in response to a failed test. 
IV.D.3. 
Testing and Monitoring 
IV.D.3.a. 
The owner or operator of a gasoline transport truck shall at 
their own expense, demonstrate compliance with Section IV.D.2, by 
methods of EPA Method 27 (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A-8) 
(October 17, 2000). All tests shall be made by, or under the 
direction of, a person qualified by training and/or experience in the 
field of air pollution testing or gasoline transport truck maintenance. 
IV.D.3.b. 
The owner or operator of a gasoline transport truck must 
conduct a visual inspection of the gasoline transport truck at least 
once every six months. The entire tank, including domes, dome 
vents, cargo tank, piping, hose connections, hoses and delivery 
elbows, must be inspected for wear, damage, or misadjustment that 
could be a potential leak source. Inspect all rubber fittings except 
those in piping which are not accessible. Any part found to be 
defective must be adjusted, repaired, or replaced as necessary. 
IV.D.4. 
Recordkeeping and Reporting

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
33 
IV.D.4.a. 
The owner or operator of a gasoline transport truck subject 
to this Section IV.D. shall maintain records of all certification testing 
and repairs. The records shall identify the gasoline transport truck, 
the date of the test or repairs and, if applicable, the type of repair 
and the date of retest. The written record shall include entries of 
any pre-test repairs, adjustments, or modifications. These shall also 
include the part name, number, and vendor name of any part 
removed and of any part installed. The records shall be maintained 
in legible, readily available form for at least two (2) years after the 
date the testing or repair was completed and shall be made 
available to the Division for inspection upon request. 
IV.D.4.b. 
The records of certification tests required by Section 
IV.D.2.a. must, as a minimum, contain all of the following entries: 
IV.D.4.b.(i) 
The gasoline transport truck owner’s name and 
address; 
IV.D.4.b.(ii) The gasoline transport truck/tank identification 
number; 
IV.D.4.b.(iii) The nature of repair work and when performed in 
relation to vapor tightness testing. 
IV.D.4.b.(iv) The following data for each test: 
IV.D.4.b.(iv)(A) 
Test pressure. 
IV.D.4.b.(iv)(B) 
Pressure or vacuum change, mm of 
water. 
IV.D.4.b.(iv)(C) 
Time period of test. 
IV.D.4.b.(iv)(D) 
Number of leaks found with instrument. 
IV.D.4.b.(iv)(E) 
Leak definition. 
IV.D.4.b.(v) The size of each of the compartments within the tank 
and whether such compartment was manifolded or was 
tested separately during pressure and vacuum tests. 
IV.D.4.b.(vi) At the top of each report page shall be the company 
name and the date and location of the test results recorded 
on that page. 
IV.D.4.b.(vii) Name and title of the person conducting the test.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
34 
IV.D.4.b.(viii) For the vapor valve test required in Section 
IV.D.2.a.(ii)(A), the initial test pressure and time of reading. 
IV.D.4.c. 
The records of the visual inspections required by Section 
IV.D.3.b. 
IV.D.4.d. 
The owner or operator of a gasoline transport truck subject 
to this regulation must annually certify to the Division that the 
gasoline transport truck has been tested by the applicable 
method(s) referenced in Section IV.D.3. The certification must 
include: 
IV.D.4.d.(i) 
The name and address of the company and the name 
and telephone number of responsible company 
representative over whose signature the certification is 
submitted; and, 
IV.D.4.d.(ii)  A copy of the information recorded to comply with 
Section IV.D.4.b. 
IV.D.4.e. 
The records of certification tests must be kept with the tank 
or at the transport company office at all times and must be shown 
to Division personnel upon their request. Copies of all records and 
reports required by the provisions of this Section IV.D. must be 
made available to the Division upon oral or written request. 
V. 
Crude Oil 
V.A. 
General Exemptions 
V.A.1. Storage tanks of 151,412 liters (40,000 gallons) or less used to store 
crude oil is exempt from the provisions of this section. 
V.A.2. Storage tanks with capacities of less than 1,590 cubic meters (10,000 
barrels) used to store crude oil and condensate prior to lease custody 
transfer are exempt from the provisions of Regulation Number 24. 
V.B. 
Equipment 
Pumps and compressors handling crude oil shall be subject to the provisions of Section 
IV.A. 
V.C. Storage 
Except as provided in Section V.A.2., crude oil stored in tanks greater than 151,412 
liters (40,000 gallons) shall be subject to the provisions of Sections IV.B.1.b. and IV.B.2.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
35 
VI. 
Petroleum Processing and Refining 
VI.A. Wastewater (Oil/Water) Separators 
VI.A.1. 
Definitions 
VI.A.1.a. 
"Forebays" mean the primary sections of a wastewater 
separator. 
VI.A.1.b. 
"Wastewater (oil/water) separator" means any device or 
piece of equipment which utilizes the difference in density between 
oil and water to remove oil and associated chemicals from water, or 
any device, such as a flocculation tank, clarifier, etc., which 
removes petroleum derived compounds from wastewater. 
VI.A.2. 
The owner or operator of any wastewater (oil/water) separators at a 
petroleum refinery shall: 
VI.A.2.a. 
Equip the forebays and separator sections of the wastewater 
separators with one or more of the following emission control 
devices, ensuring that such device is properly installed, in good 
working order and properly maintained: 
VI.A.2.a.(i) 
A solid cover with all openings sealed and the liquid 
contents totally enclosed. 
VI.A.2.a.(ii) A pontoon-type or double-deck type floating roof, or 
internal floating cover. The floating roof or cover must rest on 
the surface of the liquid contents and be equipped with a 
closure seal or seals to close the space between the edge of 
the floating roof (or cover) and the wall(s) of the 
compartment. 
VI.A.2.a.(iii) A vapor recovery system consisting of a vapor 
gathering device capable of collecting the volatile organic 
compound vapors discharged and a vapor disposal device 
capable of processing such volatile organic vapors so as to 
prevent their emission into the atmosphere. 
VI.A.2.a.(iii)(A) 
Control devices shall meet the 
applicable requirements, including recordkeeping, of 
Regulation Number 25, Part B, Sections I.A.3.a., b., 
c., and e., and I.A.8.a. and b. 
VI.A.2.a.(iii)(B) 
The applicable EPA reference methods 
1 through 4, and 25, of 40 CFR Part 60 (March 23, 
2021) shall be used to determine the efficiency of 
control devices.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
36 
VI.A.2.b. 
Equip all openings in covers, separators, and forebays with 
lids or seals such that the lids or seals are in the closed position at 
all times except when in actual use. Access for gauging and 
sampling shall be minimized. 
VI.B. Emissions from Petroleum Refineries 
VI.B.1. 
Definitions 
VI.B.1.a. 
"Firebox" means the chamber or compartment of a boiler or 
furnace in which materials are burned but does not mean the 
combustion chamber of an incinerator. 
VI.B.1.b. 
"Turnaround" means the procedure of shutting a refinery unit 
down after a run to do necessary maintenance and repair work and 
then putting the unit back on stream. 
VI.B.2. 
Process unit turnarounds 
The owner or operator of a petroleum refinery shall develop and submit to the 
Division for approval a detailed procedure for minimization of volatile organic 
compound emissions during process unit turnaround. As a minimum, the 
procedure shall provide for: 
VI.B.2.a. 
Depressurization venting of the process unit or vessel to a 
vapor recovery system, or to a flare or firebox which assures at 
least 90% combustion efficiency; 
VI.B.2.b. 
No emission of volatile organic compounds from a process 
unit or vessel until its internal pressure is 17.2 psia or less; and 
VI.B.2.c. 
Recordkeeping of the following items. Records shall be kept 
for at least two years and shall be made available to the Division for 
review upon request. 
VI.B.2.c.(i) 
Every date that each process unit is shut down, 
VI.B.2.c.(ii) 
The approximate vessel volatile organic compound 
concentration when the volatile organic compounds were 
first discharged to the atmosphere, and 
VI.B.2.c.(iii) The approximate total quantity of volatile organic 
compounds emitted to the atmosphere. 
VI.B.3. 
Venting of blowdown systems and safety pressure relief valves

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
37 
All blowdown systems, process equipment vents, and pressure relief valves shall 
be vented to a vapor recovery system, or to a flare or firebox which assures at 
least 90% combustion efficiency. 
VI.B.4. 
Vacuum-Producing Systems 
VI.B.4.a. 
The owner or operator of any vacuum-producing system at a 
petroleum refinery shall not permit the emission of any 
noncondensible volatile organic compounds from the condensers, 
hot wells or accumulators of the system. This emission limit shall be 
achieved by: 
VI.B.4.a.(i) 
Venting the noncondensible vapors to a flare or other 
combustion device, or, 
VI.B.4.a.(ii) Compressing the vapors and adding them to the 
refinery fuel gas. 
VI.B.5. 
All sampling, testing, and measuring ports, hatches, and access 
openings shall be kept in a closed sealed position except during actual 
sampling or access. 
VI.B.6. 
Control devices shall meet the applicable requirements, including 
recordkeeping, of Regulation Number 25, Part B, Sections I.A.3.a., b., c., 
and e., and I.A.8.a. and b. 
VI.B.7. 
The applicable EPA reference methods 1 through 4, and 25, of 40 
CFR Part 60 (March 23, 2021), shall be used to determine the efficiency of 
control devices. 
VI.C. Petroleum Refinery Equipment Leaks 
VI.C.1. 
Definitions 
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply: 
VI.C.1.a. 
"Accessible Component" means a component which can be 
reached, if necessary, by safe and proper use of portable ladders 
such as are acceptable to OSHA, as well as by built-in ladders and 
walkways. "Accessible" also includes components which can be 
reached by the safe use of an extension on the monitoring probe. 
VI.C.1.b. 
"Component" means any piece of equipment, which has the 
potential to leak volatile organic compounds when tested in the 
manner described in Section VI.C.3. These sources include, but are 
not limited to, pumping seals, compressor seals, seal oil degassing 
vents, pipeline valves, flanges and other connections, pressure

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
38 
relief devices, process drains, and open ended pipes. Excluded 
from these sources are valves which are not externally regulated. 
VI.C.1.c. 
"Gaseous Service" means equipment which processes, 
transfers or contains a volatile organic compound or mixture of 
volatile organic compounds in the gaseous phase. 
VI.C.1.d. 
"In Heavy VOC Liquid Service" means that the piece of 
equipment is not in gaseous service or in light VOC liquid service. 
VI.C.1.e. 
"In Light Liquid VOC Service" Equipment is in light liquid 
service if the following conditions apply: 
VI.C.1.e.(i) 
the true vapor pressure of one or more of the 
components is greater than 0.3 kPa at 20°C. True vapor 
pressures may be obtained from standard reference texts or 
may be determined by ASTM D-2879. 
VI.C.1.e.(ii) the total concentration of the pure components have a 
true vapor pressure greater than 0.3 kPa at 20°C, is equal to 
or greater than 20 percent by weight; and 
VI.C.1.e.(iii) the fluid is a liquid at operating conditions. 
VI.C.1.f. 
"Refinery Unit" means a set of components which are a part 
of a basic process operation, such as, distillation, hydrotreating, 
cracking, or reforming of hydrocarbons. 
VI.C.1.g. 
"Water Draw" means a routinely used valve or system 
employing a valve which allows non-VOC material (usually water) 
to be separated from VOC. 
VI.C.2. 
Provisions for Specific Processes 
VI.C.2.a. 
The owner or operator of a petroleum refinery complex 
subject to this regulation must: 
VI.C.2.a.(i) 
Develop a monitoring program consistent with the 
provisions in Section VI.C.3. 
VI.C.2.a.(ii) Conduct a monitoring program consistent with the 
provisions in Section VI.C.4.a. 
VI.C.2.a.(iii) Record all leaking components which have a VOC 
concentration exceeding 10,000 ppmv when tested 
according to Section VI.C.3., and place an identifying tag on 
each component consistent with the provisions in Section 
VI.C.4.a.(iii).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
39 
VI.C.2.a.(iv) (State Only) Beginning June 30, 2027, record all 
leaking, non-pump components, which have a VOC 
concentration equal to or exceeding 1,000 ppmv when 
tested according to Section VI.C.3.a., and place an 
identifying tag on each component consistent with the 
provisions in Section VI.C.4.a.(iii). 
VI.C.2.a.(v) (State Only) Beginning June 30, 2028, record all 
leaking, non-pump components, which have a VOC 
concentration equal to or exceeding 500 ppmv when tested 
according to Section VI.C.3.a., and place an identifying tag 
on each component consistent with the provisions in Section 
VI.C.4.a.(iii). 
VI.C.2.a.(vi) (State Only) Beginning June 14, 2026, record all 
leaking pumps, which have a VOC concentration equal to or 
exceeding 2,000 ppmv when tested according to Section 
VI.C.3.a., and place an identifying tag on each component 
consistent with the provisions in Section VI.C.4.a.(iii). 
VI.C.2.a.(vii) Repair and retest leaking components, as defined in 
Section VI.C.2.a.(iii) (State Only) and Sections VI.C.2.a.(iv) 
through VI.C.2.a.(vi), as soon as possible, but no later than 
fifteen (15) days after the leak is found, excepting those 
specified in Sections VI.C.2.a.(viii) and VI.C.2.a.(ix). 
VI.C.2.a.(viii) Identify all leaking components as defined in Section 
VI.C.2.a.(iii) (State Only) and Sections VI.C.2.a.(iv) through 
VI.C.2.a.(vi), which cannot be repaired until the unit is shut 
down for turnaround, and repair and retest as in Section 
VI.C.2.a.(vii) when the unit is back on stream. 
VI.C.2.a.(ix) When a component leak cannot be fixed within fifteen 
(15) working days solely because parts are not available, the 
following shall be noted in an “awaiting parts log:” 
VI.C.2.a.(ix)(A) 
component identification and tag 
number 
VI.C.2.a.(ix)(B) 
date part was ordered 
VI.C.2.a.(ix)(C) 
date part was received 
VI.C.2.a.(ix)(D) 
date repair was made 
VI.C.2.b. 
Except for safety pressure relief valves, no owner or 
operator of a petroleum refinery shall install or operate a valve at 
the end of a pipe or line containing volatile organic compounds

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
40 
unless the pipe or line is sealed with a second valve, a blind flange, 
a plug, or a cap. The sealing device may be removed only when a 
sample is being taken or when the valve is otherwise in use. 
VI.C.2.c. 
The Division, at its discretion, may require early unit 
turnaround based on the number and severity of tagged leaks 
awaiting turnaround provided: 
VI.C.2.c.(i) 
The requirement does not exceed reasonable 
available control technology due to cost per ton of emissions 
reduction achieved by the early turnaround or other 
reasonable analysis. 
VI.C.2.c.(ii) The Division provides the owner or operator of a 
petroleum refinery with written notification at least 180 days 
before requiring an early turnaround. The owner or operator 
will have 30 days from the date of the Division's notification 
to contest the requirement by submitting a demonstration 
that the requirement is beyond reasonable available control 
technology. If no demonstration is made, it will be assumed 
the requirement is reasonable. If a demonstration is 
submitted by the owner or operator, the Division will either 
approve the demonstration or disapprove the demonstration 
with a justification regarding the disapproval within 30 days 
of the date the demonstration is submitted to the Division. 
VI.C.2.c.(iii) The requirement is not contested by the owner or 
operator. Should the requirement be contested, the 
requirement for early unit turnaround will be delayed until 
180 days after the demonstration discussed in Section 
VI.C.2.c.(ii) is disapproved by the Division. 
VI.C.2.d. 
Piping valves and pressure relief valves in gaseous VOC 
service shall be marked in some manner that will be readily obvious 
to both refinery personnel performing monitoring and the Division, 
to identify them as components which are monitored quarterly.7 
VI.C.3. 
Testing and Monitoring Procedures 
VI.C.3.a. 
Testing and calibration procedures to determine compliance 
with this regulation must be consistent with EPA reference method 
21 of 40 CFR Part 60 (October 7, 2000). The reference compound 
may be methane or hexane. A leak is defined as a reading of 
10,000 ppmv of the reference compound. 
VI.C.3.b. 
(State Only) Beginning June 30, 2027, a leak identified at a 
non-pump component is defined as a reading of 1,000 ppmv or 
greater of the reference compound and beginning June 30, 2028, a

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
41 
leak identified at a non-pump component is defined as a reading of 
500 ppmv or greater of the reference compound. 
VI.C.3.c. 
(State Only) Beginning June 14, 2026, a leak identified at a 
pump is defined as a reading of 2,000 ppmv or greater of the 
reference compound. 
VI.C.4. 
Monitoring, Recordkeeping, Reporting 
VI.C.4.a. 
Monitoring 
VI.C.4.a.(i) 
The owner or operator of a petroleum refinery subject 
to this regulation shall conduct a monitoring program 
consistent with the following provisions: 
VI.C.4.a.(i)(A) 
Monitor yearly by the method referenced 
in Section VI.C.3., all: 
VI.C.4.a.(i)(A)(1) 
Pump seals; and 
VI.C.4.a.(i)(A)(2) 
Piping valves in light liquid VOC 
service; and 
VI.C.4.a.(i)(A)(3) 
Process drains; and 
VI.C.4.a.(i)(A)(4) 
Heat-exchanger body flanges; 
and 
VI.C.4.a.(i)(A)(5) 
Other accessible flanges in VOC 
service. 
VI.C.4.a.(i)(A)(6) 
Components in heavy liquid VOC 
service are exempt from requirements of this 
Section VI.C.4.a.(i)(A). 
VI.C.4.a.(i)(B) 
Monitor quarterly by the method 
referenced in Section VI.C.3., all: 
VI.C.4.a.(i)(B)(1) 
Compressor seals; and 
VI.C.4.a.(i)(B)(2) 
Piping valves in gaseous service; 
and 
VI.C.4.a.(i)(B)(3) 
Pressure relief valves in gaseous 
service. 
VI.C.4.a.(i)(C) 
Monitor at least weekly by visual 
methods all pump seals.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
42 
VI.C.4.a.(i)(D) 
Monitor within 24 hours with a VOC 
detector and make record of any component from 
which VOC liquids are observed leaking. 
VI.C.4.a.(i)(E) 
Components in heavy liquid VOC 
service shall be monitored by the method referenced 
in Section VI.C.3. within five days if evidence of a 
potential leak is found by visual, audible, olfactory, or 
any other detectable method. 
VI.C.4.a.(ii) Inaccessible valves and flanges must be monitored 
annually or, as a minimum, at unit shutdown using the 
procedures of VI.C.2.a.(viii). Pressure relief devices which 
are connected to an operating flare header or vapor recovery 
device, storage tank valves, and valves that are not 
externally regulated are exempt from the monitoring 
requirements in Section VI.C.4.a.(i). 
VI.C.4.a.(iii) The owner or operator of a petroleum refinery, upon 
the detection of a leaking component as defined in Section 
VI.C.2.a.(iii) (State Only) and Sections VI.C.2.a.(iv) through 
VI.C.2.a.(vi), must affix a weatherproof and readily visible 
tag, bearing an identification number and the date the leak is 
located, to the leaking component. This tag must remain in 
place until the leaking component is repaired. In addition, the 
owner or operator must log the leak (including those leaks 
immediately repaired), per the requirements of Sections 
VI.C.4.b.(i) through (iii). 
VI.C.4.b. 
Recordkeeping 
VI.C.4.b.(i) 
The owner or operator of a petroleum refinery must 
maintain a leaking components monitoring log which must 
contain at a minimum, the following data: 
VI.C.4.b.(i)(A) 
The name of the process unit where the 
component is located. 
VI.C.4.b.(i)(B) 
The type of component (e.g., valve, 
seal). 
VI.C.4.b.(i)(C) 
The tag number of the component. 
VI.C.4.b.(i)(D) 
The date on which a leaking component 
is discovered. 
VI.C.4.b.(i)(E) 
The date on which a leaking component 
is repaired.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
43 
VI.C.4.b.(i)(F) 
The date and instrument reading found 
during the recheck procedure subsequent to repairing 
a leaking component. 
VI.C.4.b.(i)(G) 
A record of the calibration of the 
monitoring instrument. 
VI.C.4.b.(i)(H) 
Those leaks that cannot be repaired 
until turnaround. 
VI.C.4.b.(i)(I) The total number of components checked and 
the total number of components found leaking. 
VI.C.4.b.(i)(J) The total number of components subject to 
Section VI.C.2.a.(viii) which upon retest were still 
leaking as defined in Section VI.C.3. 
VI.C.4.b.(ii) Copies of the monitoring log shall be retained by the 
owner or operator for a minimum of two (2) years after the 
date on which the record was made or report prepared. 
VI.C.4.b.(iii) Copies of the monitoring log shall be made available 
to the Division upon oral or written request. 
VI.C.4.c. 
Reporting 
The owner or operator of a petroleum refinery, upon the completion of 
each yearly and/or quarterly monitoring procedure, shall: 
VI.C.4.c.(i) 
Submit a report to the Division by the 15th day of 
February, May, August, and November that lists all leaking 
components that were located during the previous three (3) 
calendar months (quarter), but not repaired within fifteen (15) 
working days, all leaking components awaiting unit 
turnaround, the total number of components inspected, and 
the total number of components found leaking. 
VI.C.4.c.(ii) Submit a signed statement with the report attesting to 
the fact that, with the exception to those leaking components 
listed in Section VI.C.4.b.(i)(H), all monitoring and repairs 
were performed as stipulated in the monitoring program. 
VII. 
Control of Volatile Organic Compound Leaks from Vapor Collection 
Systems and Vapor Control Systems Located at Gasoline Terminals, Gasoline 
Bulk Plants, and Gasoline Dispensing Facilities 
VII.A. General Provisions

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
44 
VII.A.1. 
Applicability 
This section is applicable to all gasoline terminals, gasoline bulk plants, and 
gasoline dispensing facilities (e.g., service stations) which are located in ozone 
nonattainment areas and which must have a vapor collection system pursuant to 
Section IV. and other applicable rules. 
VII.A.2. 
Exemptions 
This section is not applicable to those operations involving transfer of gasoline 
from gasoline dispensing facilities to motor vehicle fuel tanks nor to other 
dispensing operations at such facilities. 
VII.A.3. 
Definitions 
For the purpose of this section, the following definitions apply: 
VII.A.3.a. 
"Gasoline Dispensing Facility” means any site where 
gasoline is dispensed to motor vehicle fuel tanks from stationary 
storage tanks, (e.g., service stations, fleet pumps, etc.) 
VII.A.3.b. 
"Gasoline Transport Truck” means tank trucks or trailers 
equipped with a storage tank and used for the transport of gasoline 
from sources of supply to stationary storage tanks of gasoline 
dispensing facilities (e.g., service stations), bulk gasoline plants or 
gasoline terminals. 
VII.A.3.c. 
"Vapor Collection System” means a vapor transport system 
which uses direct displacement by the gasoline being transferred to 
force vapors from the vessel being loaded into either a vessel being 
unloaded or a vapor holding tank. 
VII.B. Specific Provisions 
VII.B.1. 
The operator of a vapor collection system at a facility subject to the 
provisions of this section shall operate the vapor collection system and the 
gasoline loading equipment in a manner that prevents: 
VII.B.1.a. 
Gauge pressure from exceeding 33.6 torr (18 inches of H2O) 
and vacuum from exceeding gauge pressure of minus 11.2 torr 
(minus 6 inches of H2O) at the point where the vapor return line on 
the truck connects with the vapor collection line of the facility. 
VII.B.1.b. 
A reading equal to or greater than 100 percent of the lower 
explosive limit (LEL, measured as propane) at 2.5 centimeters from 
a known or potential leak source when measured by the 
procedures described in Appendix B of "Control of Organic 
Compound Leaks from Gasoline Tank Trucks and Vapor Collection

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
45 
Systems,” December 1978, EPA-450/2-78-051, during loading or 
unloading operations at gasoline dispensing facilities, bulk plants, 
and terminals. 
VII.B.1.c. 
Avoidable liquid or vapor leaks from the system during 
loading or unloading operations at gasoline dispensing facilities, 
bulk plants, and terminals. 
VII.B.1.d. 
Division representatives may monitor for excessive back 
pressure as defined by Section VII.B.1.a. and vapor leakage as is 
defined by Section VII.B.1.b. or by detection methods incorporating 
sight, sound, and smell. 
VII.B.2. 
Repairs and Modifications 
VII.B.2.a. 
The operator shall within fifteen (15) days, repair and retest 
a vapor collection system that exceeds the pressure limits (Section 
VII.B.1.a.), excepting that; 
VII.B.2.b. 
Should an applicable facility require modification or repairs 
that will take longer than fifteen (15) days to complete, the operator 
shall submit to the Division for approval a schedule which includes 
dates of commencement and completion. 
Appendix B Criteria for Control of Vapors from Gasoline Transfer to Storage 
Tanks 
I. 
Drop Tube Specifications. Submerged fill is specifically required. The drop tube 
must extend to within 15.24 cm (6 in.) of the tank bottom. 
II. 
Vapor Hose Return. Vapor return line and any manifold must be minimum 7.6 cm 
(3 in.) ID. All tanks must be provided with individual overfill protection. (Liquid 
must not be allowed in the vent line or vapor recovery line.) Disconnect on liquid 
line should assure that all liquid in the hose is drained into the storage tank. The 
requirements for overfill protection as specified may be waived for existing 
storage tanks when it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the appropriate local 
Fire Marshal, and where applicable, the State Oil Inspection Office that the 
installation of overfill protection devices on existing tanks is physically not 
possible. 
III. 
Size of Vapor Line Connections. For separate vapor lines, nominal three inch 
(7.6 cm) or larger connections must be utilized at the storage tank and truck. 
However, short lengths of 2-inch (5.1 cm) vertical pipe no greater than 91.4 cm (3 
ft.) long are permissible if the fuel delivery rate is less than 400 gallons per 
minute. 
Where concentric (coaxial) connections are utilized, a 45 cm2 (7 sq. in.) area for 
vapor return shall be provided. Four-inch concentric designs are acceptable only

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
46 
when using a venturi-shaped outer tube or where normal drop rate of 1,700 liters 
per minute (450 gpm) is reduced by at least 25%. Six-inch (15.24 cm) risers 
should be installed in new stations with concentric connections. 
IV. 
Type of Liquid Fill Connection. Vapor tight caps are required for the liquid fill 
connection for all systems. A positive closure utilizing a gasket is necessary to 
prevent vapors from being emitted at ground level. Cam-lock closures meet this 
requirement. Dry break closures are preferred. 
V. 
Tank Truck Inspection. Tank trucks are specifically required to be vapor-tight and 
to have valid leak-tight certification. The visual inspection procedure must be 
conducted at least once every six months to ensure properly operating 
manifolding and relief valves, using the test procedure of Section IV.D.3.b. 
VI. 
Dry Break on Underground Tank Vapor Riser. Dry-break closures are required to 
assure transfer of displaced vapors to the truck and to prevent ground-level, 
gasoline-vapor emissions caused by failure to connect the vapor return line to the 
underground tanks (closure on riser to mate with opening on hose). These 
devices keep the tank sealed until the hose is connected to the underground 
tank. Concentric couplers without dry-breaks are required to have a dry-break on 
the vapor line connection to the coupler itself, rather than on the rise pipe from 
the storage tank. The liquid fill riser should be provided with a gap having a 
positive closure (threaded or latched). 
VII. 
Equipment Ensuring Vapor-Hose Connection during Gasoline Deliveries. An 
equipment system aboard the tank truck shall insure (barring deliberate 
tampering) that a vapor return hose is connected from the truck's vapor return 
line to the tank receiving gasoline. 
VIII. 
Vent Line Restriction Devices. Vent line restriction devices are required. If the 
liquid fill line were attached to the underground tank and the vapor return line 
were disconnected, then dry break closures would seal the vapor return path to 
the truck, forcing all vapors out the vent line. In such instances, a restriction 
device on this vent line greatly reduces fill rate, warning the operator that the 
vapor line is not connected. 
Pressure/vacuum (PV) vent valves installed on the storage tank vent pipes. The 
pressure specifications for PV vent valves shall be: a positive pressure setting of 
2.5 to 6.0 inches of water and a negative pressure setting of 6.0 to 10.0 inches of 
water. 
IX. 
Fire and Safety Regulations. All new or modified installations must comply in 
their entirety with all code requirements including NFPA, Pamphlet 30 (fiberglass 
is preferred for new manifold lines). For any questions concerning compliance, 
please contact State Oil Inspection or your local Fire Marshal. 
X. 
State Oil Inspection. Requirements of the State Oil Inspection office make 
accurate measurements of the liquid in the underground tank necessary. Vapor-

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
47 
tight gauging devices will be required in all systems designed such that a 
pressure other than atmospheric will be held or maintained in the storage tank. 
The volume of liquid in the tanks maintained at atmospheric pressure may be 
determined with a stick through the submerged drop tube or through a separate 
submerged gauging tube extending to within 15.24 cm (6 in.) of the tank bottom. 
Appendix C Criteria for Control of Vapors from Gasoline Transfer at Bulk Plants 
I. 
Storage Tank Requirements: 
A. 
Drop Tube Specification: Underground tanks must contain a drop tube that 
extends to within six inches (15.24 cm) of the tank bottom. All top loaded 
above-ground tanks must contain a similar drop tube. Above-ground tanks 
using bottom loading, where the inlet is flush with the tank bottom, must 
meet the submerged fill requirement. 
B. 
Size of Vapor Lines from Storage Tanks to Loading Rack: See nomograph 
(Attachment 1). NOTE: Affected sources are free to choose a pipe 
diameter different from the one suggested by the nomograph if sufficient 
justification and documentation is presented. 
C. 
Pressure Relief Valves: All pressure relief valves and valve connections 
must be checked periodically for leaks, and be repaired as required. The 
relief valve pressures should be set in accordance with Sections 2-2.5.1 
and 2-2.7.1 inclusive of the current National Fire Protection Agency 
Pamphlet Number 30. 
D. 
Liquid Level Check Port: Access for checking liquid level by other than a 
vapor-tight gauging system shall be vapor-tight when not being used. 
Tank level shall be checked prior to filling to avoid overfills. 
E. 
Miscellaneous Tank Openings: All other tank openings, e.g., tank 
inspection hatches, must be vapor tight when not being used, and must be 
closed at all times during transfer of fuel. 
F. 
Storage Tank Overfill Protection: Except for concentric (coaxial) delivery 
systems, underground tanks must have ball check valves (stainless steel 
ball). Tanks with concentric delivery systems must have Division-approved 
overfill protection, (e.g., cutoff pressure-switch in vent line). 
II. 
Loading Rack Requirements: 
A. 
Loading Specification: A vapor-tight bottom-loading or top-loading system 
using submerged fill with a positive seal, e.g., the Wiggins (tm) system, is 
required. NOTE: Bulk plants delivering solely to exempt accounts are 
required to have submerged fill, but loading need not be vapor-tight.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
48 
B. 
Dry-Break on Storage Tank Vapor Return Line: A dry-break is required to 
prevent ground-level gasoline vapor emissions during periods when 
gasoline transfer is not being made. This device keeps the tank sealed 
until the vapor return hose is connected. 
III. 
Tank Truck* Requirements: 
A. 
Vapor Return Modification: Tank trucks must be modified to recover 
vapors during loading and unloading operations. NOTE: Tank trucks 
making deliveries solely to exempt accounts do not require this 
modification. However, 97% submerged fill is required when top loading. 
B. 
Loading Specifications: Bottom loading or top loading using submerged fill 
with a positive seal is required for tank trucks modified for vapor recovery. 
NOTE: When loading a tank truck with this modification without the vapor 
return hose connected (this is allowed at bulk plants servicing exempt 
accounts returning without collected vapors in the tank), the requirements 
of National Fire Protection Agency Pamphlet Number 385, "Loading and 
Unloading Venting Protection in Tank Vehicles, Section 2219, Paragraph 
c", must be met. 
C. 
Vapor Return Hose Size: A minimum three-inch (7.6 cm) ID vapor return 
hose is required. 
D. 
Tank Truck Inspection: Tank trucks are required to be vapor-tight and 
have valid leak-tight certification. Periodic visual inspection is necessary to 
insure properly operating manifolding and relief valves. 
* The term "tank truck" is meant to include all trucks with tanks used for the transport of gasoline, such as tank wagons, account 
trucks and transport trucks. 
PART C 
Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose 
I. 
April 20, 2023 
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the 
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-101, C.R.S., et seq., the 
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-101, C.R.S., et seq., and the 
Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules, 5 C.C.R. §1001-1. 
Basis 
To improve the readability and usability of Regulation Number 7 and Regulation 
Number 22, the Commission adopted revisions restructuring and reorganizing the parts 
and sections. 
Specific Statutory Authority

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
49 
The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-101, C.R.S., et seq. (the 
State Air Act or the Act), specifically § 25-7-103.3, directs rule-making agencies, such 
as the Commission, to review their rules and consider whether the rule is necessary; 
whether the rule overlaps or duplicates other rules of the agency or with other federal, 
state, or local government rules; whether the rule is written in plain language and is 
easy to understand; whether the rule has achieved the desired intent and whether more 
or less regulation is necessary; whether the rule can be amended to give more 
flexibility, reduce regulatory burdens, or reduce unnecessary paperwork or steps while 
maintaining its benefits; whether the rule is implemented in an efficient and effective 
manner, including the requirements for the issuance of permits and licenses; whether a 
cost-benefit analysis was performed by the applicable rule-making agency; and whether 
the rule is adequate for the protection of the safety, health, and welfare of the state or its 
residents. Based on this review, the rule-making agency will determine whether the 
existing rules should be continued in their current form, amended, or repealed. 
Purpose 
The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to 
Regulation Number 24. The Commission reorganized Regulation Number 7 into four 
regulations: Part B became Regulation Number 24; Part C became Regulation Number 
25; Part D remained in Regulation Number 7; and Part E became Regulation Number 
26. The upstream oil and gas intensity and midstream combustion program provisions 
currently in Regulation Number 22 moved to Regulation Number 7. The manufacturing 
sector greenhouse gas provisions in Regulation Number 22 became a new Regulation 
Number 27. 
To assist in tracking the history of the regulatory revisions, associated statements of 
basis and purpose, and restructured location, the Commission provides the following 
tracking table. 
Year of 
rule 
adoption 
Date of 
rule 
adoption 
Summary of rule(s) 
adopted 
Regulation 
7 Section 
(pre-2019 
numbering) 
Regulation 7 
Section 
(numbering 
as of 
12.2022) 
Rule & 
Section (as 
of 4.2023) 
1995 
Dec. 21 
Clarify substances that 
are negligibly reactive 
VOCs. 
Section II.B. 
Part A, 
Section II.B. 
Regulations 7 
and 24-26, 
Part A  
1996 
Mar. 21 
Revisions related to the 
maintenance 
demonstration. 
Sections 
I.A.1. 
through 
I.A.4.; II.D.; 
II.E. 
Part A, 
Sections 
I.A.1. through 
I.A.4.; II.D.; 
II.E. 
Regulations 7 
and 24-26, 
Part A

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
50 
Year of 
rule 
adoption 
Date of 
rule 
adoption 
Summary of rule(s) 
adopted 
Regulation 
7 Section 
(pre-2019 
numbering) 
Regulation 7 
Section 
(numbering 
as of 
12.2022) 
Rule & 
Section (as 
of 4.2023) 
1996 
Nov. 21 
Updated NRVOC list. 
Removed control of VOC 
emissions from dry 
cleaning facilities using 
perchloroethylene.  
Section XII. 
NA 
NA 
1998 
Oct. 15 
Revisions specific to 
Gates Rubber Company. 
Section II.F. 
NA 
Regulation 
24-25, Part A 
2001 
Jan. 11 
Correct discrepancies in 
posted versus adopted 
provisions. 
Sections 
III.C.; 
IX.L.2.c.(1); 
X.D.2. 
through 
XI.A.3. 
Part B, 
Section I.; 
Part C, 
Section I.; 
Part C, 
Sections II. 
through III. 
Regulation 
24, Part B; 
Regulation 
25, Part B 
(fkna Part C) 
2003 
Nov. 20 
Repealed provisions 
establishing a procedure 
for granting exemptions 
for de minimis sources 
and for approving 
alternative compliance 
plans. 
Sections 
I.A.2. 
through 
I.A.4.; II.D.; 
II.E. 
Part A, 
Sections 
I.A.1. through 
I.A.4.; II.D.; 
II.E. 
Regulations 7 
and 24-26, 
Part A 
2004 
Mar. 12 
Revisions adopted in 
conjunction with the early 
action compact ozone 
action plan – control of 
emissions from 
condensate operation at 
oil and gas facilities, 
emissions from internal 
combustion engines, 
emissions from gas 
processing plants, and 
emissions from oil and 
gas operations 
dehydrators. 
Sections 
I.A.; I.B.; 
XII.; XVI. 
Part A, 
Section I.A.; 
Part A, 
Section I.B.; 
Part D, 
Section I.; 
Part E, 
Section I. 
Regulations 7 
and 24-26, 
Part A

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
51 
Year of 
rule 
adoption 
Date of 
rule 
adoption 
Summary of rule(s) 
adopted 
Regulation 
7 Section 
(pre-2019 
numbering) 
Regulation 7 
Section 
(numbering 
as of 
12.2022) 
Rule & 
Section (as 
of 4.2023) 
2004 
Dec. 16 
Revisions adopted in 
response to EPA 
comments (re practical 
enforceability) on the 
ozone action plan adopted 
3/2004. 
Sections 
I.A.; II.A.; 
XII.; XVI.; 
Part A, 
Section I.A.; 
Part A, 
Section II.A.; 
Part D, 
Section I.; 
Part E, 
Section I. 
Regulations 7 
and 24-26, 
Part A 
2006 
Dec. 17 
Expanding oil and gas 
condensate tank emission 
controls. 
Section XII. 
Part D, 
Section I. 
Regulation 7, 
Part B (fkna 
Part D) 
2006 
Dec. 17 
Reduce emissions from oil 
and gas operations and 
natural gas fired engines. 
Sections 
I.A.1.b.; 
XVII. 
Part A, 
Section I.A.; 
Part D., 
Section II. & 
Part E. 
Section I. (for 
engines) 
Regulation 7, 
Part A and 
Part B (fkna 
Part D); 
Regulation 
26, Part A 
and Part B 
(fkna Part E)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
52 
Year of 
rule 
adoption 
Date of 
rule 
adoption 
Summary of rule(s) 
adopted 
Regulation 
7 Section 
(pre-2019 
numbering) 
Regulation 7 
Section 
(numbering 
as of 
12.2022) 
Rule & 
Section (as 
of 4.2023) 
2008 
Dec. 12 
Expand VOC RACT 
requirements for 100 tpy 
sources and clarify how 
RACT requirements in 
Regulation Numbers 3 
and 7 interact in the ozone 
nonattainment area. Make 
typographical and 
formatting changes. 
Revise oil and gas 
condensate tank and 
pneumatic controller 
requirements. 
Title; 
Sections I.; 
II.; VI. 
through 
XIII.; XVII.; 
XVIII.; and 
Appendices 
A through F 
Part A, 
Section I.; 
Part A, 
Section II.; 
Part B, 
Sections IV. 
through VI. & 
Part C, 
Sections I. 
through IV. & 
Part D, 
Section I.; 
Part D, 
Section II. 
and Part E, 
Section I. (for 
engines); Part 
D, Section III.; 
Part A, 
Appendix A. & 
Part B, 
Appendices B 
and C & Part 
C, 
Appendices D 
and E 
(formerly 
Appendix F) 
Regulation 
24, Part B; 
Regulation 
25, Part B 
(fkna Part C); 
Regulation 7, 
Part B (fkna 
Part D); 
Regulation 
26, Part B 
(fkna Part E) 
2011 
Jan. 7 
Include engine 
requirements in the 
Regional Haze SIP. 
Outline; 
Sections I.; 
XVII. 
Part A, 
Section I.; 
Part E, 
Section I. 
Regulation 
26, Part B 
(fkna Part E) 
2012 
Dec. 20 
Address EPA comments 
on the June 2009 
submittal. Revise state-
only requirements for 
consistency. 
Sections II.; 
XII.; XVII. 
Part A, 
Section II.; 
Part D, 
Section I.; 
Part D, 
Section II. 
Regulation 7, 
Part B (fkna 
Part D)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
53 
Year of 
rule 
adoption 
Date of 
rule 
adoption 
Summary of rule(s) 
adopted 
Regulation 
7 Section 
(pre-2019 
numbering) 
Regulation 7 
Section 
(numbering 
as of 
12.2022) 
Rule & 
Section (as 
of 4.2023) 
2014 
Feb. 23 
Adopt additional oil and 
gas emission reduction 
requirements – auto-
igniters, expand 
condensate tank controls, 
limit storage tank venting, 
expand dehydrator 
control, establish leak 
detection and repair 
program, limit venting 
during well maintenance 
and liquids unloading, 
expand pneumatic 
controller requirements. 
Sections II.; 
XVII.; XVIII. 
Part A, 
Section II.; 
Part D, 
Section II.; 
Part D, 
Section III. 
Regulation 7, 
Part B (fkna 
Part D) 
2016 
Nov. 17 
Adopt RACT requirements 
for industrial cleaning 
solvents, lithographic and 
letterpress printing, and 
specific major sources. 
Including existing 
combustion device auto-
igniter and storage tank 
inspection requirements in 
the SIP. Adopting major 
source combustion 
equipment combustion 
process adjustment 
requirements and 
incorporate by reference 
NSPS and NESHAP for 
specific major sources.  
Sections I.; 
X.; XII.; XIII.; 
XVI.; XIX. 
Part A, 
Section I.; 
Part C, 
Section II.; 
Part D, 
Section I.; 
Part C, 
Section IV.; 
Part C, 
Section V.; 
Part E, 
Section III. 
Regulation 
25, Part B 
(fkna Part C); 
Regulation 7, 
Part B (fkna 
Part D); 
Regulation 
26, Part B 
(fkna Part E)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
54 
Year of 
rule 
adoption 
Date of 
rule 
adoption 
Summary of rule(s) 
adopted 
Regulation 
7 Section 
(pre-2019 
numbering) 
Regulation 7 
Section 
(numbering 
as of 
12.2022) 
Rule & 
Section (as 
of 4.2023) 
2017 
Nov. 16 
Adopt provisions based on 
recommendations in 
EPA’s Oil and Gas Control 
Techniques Guideline. 
Revise state-only 
requirements for 
consistency. 
Sections II.; 
XII.; XVII.; 
XVIII. 
Part A, 
Section II.; 
Part D, 
Section I.; 
Part D, 
Section II.; 
Part D, 
Section III. 
Regulation 7, 
Part B (fkna 
Part D) 
2018 
July 19 
Adopt requirements for 
existing major source 
boilers, turbines, 
lightweight aggregate 
kilns, glass melting 
furnaces, engines. 
Sections 
XVI.; XIX. 
Part E, 
Section II., 
Part E, 
Section III. 
Regulation 
26, Part B 
(fkna Part E)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
55 
Year of 
rule 
adoption 
Date of 
rule 
adoption 
Summary of rule(s) 
adopted 
Regulation 
7 Section 
(pre-2019 
numbering) 
Regulation 7 
Section 
(numbering 
as of 
12.2022) 
Rule & 
Section (as 
of 4.2023) 
2018 
Nov. 15 
Adopt requirements for 
major source breweries 
and wood furniture 
manufacturing. Address 
EPA concerns with 
requirements for industrial 
cleaning solvents, metal 
furniture surface coating, 
and miscellaneous metal 
surface coating. Updated 
incorporation by reference 
dates. 
Sections I.; 
II.; VI.; VIII.; 
IX.; X.; XII.; 
XIII.; XVI.; 
XVII.; XIX.; 
XX.; XXI. 
Part A, 
Section I.; 
Part A, 
Section II.; 
Part B, 
Section IV; 
Part B, 
Section VI.; 
Part C, 
Section I.; 
Part C, 
Section X.; 
Part D, 
Section I.; 
Part C, 
Section IV.; 
Part C, 
Section V.; 
Part D, 
Section II.; 
Part E, 
Section III.; 
Part E, 
Section IV. 
Part F 
Regulation 
24, Part B; 
Regulation 
25, Part B 
(fkna Part C); 
Regulation 7, 
Part B (fkna 
Part D); 
Regulation 
26, Part B 
(fkna Part E); 
Regulation 23 
(fkna Part F)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
56 
Year of 
rule 
adoption 
Date of 
rule 
adoption 
Summary of rule(s) 
adopted 
Regulation 
7 Section 
(pre-2019 
numbering) 
Regulation 7 
Section 
(numbering 
as of 
12.2022) 
Rule & 
Section (as 
of 4.2023) 
2019 
Dec. 19 
Reorganized into Parts A 
through F. Replaced the 
SIP system-wide 
condensate tank control 
program with a fixed 
threshold storage tank 
control program. 
Increased state-only, 
state-wide storage tank 
controls. Adopted oil and 
gas storage tank 
measurement system, 
hydrocarbon liquids 
loadout, leak detection 
and repair, well plugging, 
and pneumatic controller 
requirements. Adopted an 
oil and gas transmission 
and storage segment 
methane intensity 
program. Adopted an 
annual oil and gas 
inventory program. 
Expanded SIP 
requirements to 50 tpy 
sources. Aligned gasoline 
tank truck testing 
requirements with federal 
requirements as SIP 
clean-up. 
Sections I. 
through XX. 
and 
Appendices 
A through F 
(see 
reorganization 
cross walk)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
57 
Year of 
rule 
adoption 
Date of 
rule 
adoption 
Summary of rule(s) 
adopted 
Regulation 
7 Section 
(pre-2019 
numbering) 
Regulation 7 
Section 
(numbering 
as of 
12.2022) 
Rule & 
Section (as 
of 4.2023) 
2020 
Sept. 23 
Adopted requirements for 
natural gas fired 1,000 
horsepower engines. 
Adopted flowback vessel 
control requirements and 
pre- and early-production 
monitoring requirements. 
Expanded hydrocarbon 
liquids loadout 
requirements to class II 
disposal well facilities. 
 
Part D, 
Sections II.; 
IV.; V.; VI.; 
Part E, 
Section I. 
Regulation 7, 
Part B (fkna 
Part D); 
Regulation 
26, Part B 
(fkna Part E) 
2020 
Dec. 18 
Adopted requirements for 
major source foam 
manufacturing, boilers, 
turbines, landfill and 
biogas fired engines, and 
wood surface coating. 
 
Part D, 
Section II.; 
Part E, 
Sections II.; 
IV.; V. 
Regulation 7, 
Part B (fkna 
Part D); 
Regulation 
26, Part B 
(fkna Part E) 
2021 
Feb. 18 
Adopted non-emitting 
pneumatic controller 
requirements for new 
facilities and existing 
pneumatic controller 
retrofit requirements for 
existing facilities. 
 
Part D, 
Section III. 
Regulation 7, 
Part B (fkna 
Part D) 
2021 
July 16 
Adopted requirements for 
metal parts surface 
coating and major source 
process heaters. 
 
Part C, 
Section I.; 
Part D, 
Section III.; 
Part E, 
Section II. 
Regulation 
25, Part B 
(fkna Part C); 
Regulation 7, 
Part B (fkna 
Part D); 
Regulation 
26, Part B 
(fkna Part E)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
58 
Year of 
rule 
adoption 
Date of 
rule 
adoption 
Summary of rule(s) 
adopted 
Regulation 
7 Section 
(pre-2019 
numbering) 
Regulation 7 
Section 
(numbering 
as of 
12.2022) 
Rule & 
Section (as 
of 4.2023) 
2021 
Dec. 17 
Adopted SIP revisions to 
address EPA concerns 
with the EPA Oil and Gas 
CTG. Adopted oil and gas 
combustion device 
performance testing 
requirements. Expanded 
reciprocating compressor 
rod packing, leak 
detection and repair, and 
pneumatic controller 
requirements at natural 
gas processing plants. 
Expanded leak detection 
and repair, separator, and 
well maintenance 
requirements. Adopted 
pigging and blowdown 
requirements.  
 
Part D, 
Sections I., II., 
III., V., VI. 
Regulation 7, 
Part B (fkna 
Part D)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
59 
Year of 
rule 
adoption 
Date of 
rule 
adoption 
Summary of rule(s) 
adopted 
Regulation 
7 Section 
(pre-2019 
numbering) 
Regulation 7 
Section 
(numbering 
as of 
12.2022) 
Rule & 
Section (as 
of 4.2023) 
2022 
Dec. 15 
Adopted requirements for 
major source combustion 
equipment, wood coating, 
solvent use, bakery 
operation, digital printing, 
poultry waste processing, 
oil stabilization facilities, 
class II injection well 
facilities, and industrial 
waste; included state only 
provisions as SIP 
strengthening measures; 
clarified the applicability of 
requirements to newly 
classified ozone 
nonattainment areas; 
included requirements for 
motor vehicle materials 
and automotive coatings; 
expanded gasoline tank 
truck testing requirements.  
 
Part E, 
Sections I., II., 
III., VI., VII., 
and VIII., Part 
C., Sections 
I., II., and IV., 
and Part D, 
Section II.; 
Part D, 
Sections II., ; 
Part A, 
Sections I. 
and II.; Part 
C, Section I.; 
and Part B, 
Section IV. 
Regulation 
24, Part B 
(fkna Part B); 
Regulation 
25, Part B 
(fkna Part C); 
Regulation 7, 
Part B (fkna 
Part D); 
Regulation 
26, Part B 
(fkna Part E) 
The Commission also made typographical, grammatical, and formatting corrections 
throughout the regulations. 
Incorporation by Reference 
The Commission will update regulatory references as needed as opportunities arrive. 
Additional Considerations 
These revisions are administrative in nature and, therefore, do not exceed or differ from 
the requirement of the federal act or rules. Therefore, § 25-7-110.5(5)(a) does not apply. 
Findings of Fact 
To the extent that § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements apply to this rulemaking, and after 
considering all the information in the record, the Commission hereby makes the 
determination that:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
60 
(I) These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and sound 
scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all information submitted 
by interested parties. 
(II) Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a 
demonstrable reduction of greenhouse gas and VOC emissions. 
(III) Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about 
yyreductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to 
implement and comply with the rules. 
(IV) The rules are the most cost-effective alternative to achieve the necessary reduction 
in air pollution and provide the regulated entity flexibility. 
(V) The selected regulatory alternative will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation 
in the most cost-effective manner. 
II. 
April 15-17, 2026 (Revisions to Part B, Section VI.) 
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the 
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, § 24-4-101, C.R.S., et seq., the 
Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act, § 25-7-101, C.R.S., et seq., and the 
Air Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules, 5 C.C.R. §1001-1. 
Basis 
On June 2, 2022, House Bill (HB) 22-1244: Public Protections for Toxic Air 
Contaminants was signed into law. The law, now primarily codified at Section 25-7-
109.5, C.R.S., directed the Commission to adopt emission control regulations for each 
identified priority toxic air contaminant (PTAC) by April 30, 2026. 
On January 17, 2025, the Commission adopted Regulation Number 30 and identified 
five initial PTACs. In this action, the Commission adopted revisions to Regulation 24, as 
well as Regulation Number 26 and Regulation Number 30, to establish emissions 
control regulations for certain stationary sources that emit one or more PTACs. 
The emissions control regulations will reduce PTAC emissions, focusing on specific 
source categories for this initial set of strategies. Specifically, in Regulation Number 24, 
the adopted emissions control requirements will further reduce emissions of benzene 
from petroleum liquids refining operations. 
Specific Statutory Authority 
The State Air Act, specifically Section 25-7-105(1), C.R.S., directs the Commission to 
promulgate such rules and regulations as are consistent with the legislative declaration 
set forth in Section 25-7-102, C.R.S., and that are necessary for the proper 
implementation and administration of the State Air Act. Section 25-7-109.5(7)(a), C.R.S. 
required the Commission to, no later than April 30, 2026, adopt emission control

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
61 
regulations to reduce emissions of each PTAC and prioritize reduction in 
disproportionately impacted communities with multiple sources of emissions of PTACs. 
In determining the emission control regulations, Section 25-7-109.5(7)(b), C.R.S. 
requires that the Commission consider: 
(I) 
Any emission control regulations adopted for PTACs in other states or by the 
federal government; 
(II) 
The emission levels of a PTAC from different industries and categories of 
sources, including sources required to have an operating permit pursuant to 
Section 25-7-114.3, synthetic minor sources, and minor sources; 
(III) 
The degree of reduction of each PTAC that is achievable and technically and 
economically feasible, taking into account energy, environmental, and economic 
impacts and other costs pursuant to the requirements described in Section 25-7-
110.8; 
(IV) 
The ability of emission control regulations to reduce or eliminate the emissions of 
a PTAC, including non-emitting alternative processes and control technologies; 
and 
(V) 
The availability, suitability, and relative efficacy of a less hazardous substitute for 
a PTAC. 
In addition, for new PTAC emission sources, Section 25-7-109.5(7)(c), C.R.S. directs 
the Commission to adopt emission control regulations that are more stringent than 
those adopted for existing sources. It also provides that the Commission may adopt an 
emission threshold below which new sources are not required to comply with the more 
stringent regulations. 
“Emission control regulation” is broadly defined at Section 25-7-103(11), C.R.S. 
Emission control regulations pertaining to PTACs “may include application of measures, 
processes, methods, systems, or techniques, including, but not limited to, measures 
that: (a) [r]educe the volume of, or eliminate emissions of, such pollutants through 
process changes, emission limitations, control technologies, substitution of materials, or 
other modifications; (b) [e]nclose systems or processes to eliminate emissions; (c) 
[c]ollect, capture, or treat such pollutants when released from a process, stack, storage, 
or fugitive emissions points; (d) [a]re design, equipment, or work practice standards 
(including requirements for operator training or certification); or (e) [a]re a combination 
of the provisions of paragraphs (a) to (d) ….” 
In addition to Section 25-7-109.5, C.R.S., Section 25-7-109, C.R.S. provides the 
Commission authority to adopt emission control regulations for PTACs. Section 25-7-
106(6), C.R.S. provides the Commission authority to require sources to establish and 
maintain reports; install, use, and maintain monitoring equipment or methods; record, 
monitor, and sample emissions; and provide such other information as the Commission 
may require.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
62 
Purpose 
The following section sets forth the Commission’s purpose in adopting the revisions to 
Regulation Number 24. 
PTAC emissions control regulations 
The Commission adopted the emissions control regulations for the five initial PTACs 
based on research and stakeholder outreach conducted by Division staff. Staff 
developed the emissions control regulations following the direction at Section 25-7-
109.5(7)(b), C.R.S. Staff compiled and analyzed emissions data from stationary 
sources, and the processes that result in emissions. Staff researched emissions control 
regulations for the five PTAC as adopted in other states and by the federal government, 
emission levels from different types of source categories, considered the degree of 
PTAC emissions reductions achievable and technically and economically feasible, 
considered the ability of emission control regulations to reduce or eliminate PTAC 
emissions, and considered the availability, suitability, and efficacy of less hazardous 
substitutes. Staff also held informational meetings with the public and industry groups, 
as well as source-specific stakeholder meetings throughout the rule development 
process to ensure adopted provisions effectively reduce PTAC emissions in ways that 
are technically and economically feasible. 
To further reduce emissions of benzene from equipment leaks at petroleum refining 
operations, the Commission adopted revisions to Regulation Number 24 to revise leak 
detection and repair requirements at petroleum refineries. Specifically, the Commission 
modified the requirements for monitoring programs to require recording and, 
subsequently, repair of leaks with a VOC concentration above 500 ppmv for non-pump 
equipment and 2,000 ppmv for pumps. As benzene is a component of VOCs, the 
reduction in VOC emissions that will result from the lower detection limits will result in 
the reduction of benzene emissions. 
The Commission also made typographical, grammatical, and formatting corrections 
throughout the regulations. 
Incorporation by Reference 
The Commission will update regulatory references as needed and as opportunities 
arrive. 
Additional Considerations 
The requirement to develop emissions control regulations for PTAC is not a federal rule. 
However, the Commission recognizes that state air toxic regulations often complement 
gaps in federal frameworks, and therefore the Commission adopted certain revisions to 
Regulation Number 24 to achieve additional reductions and compliance oversight of 
these PTAC sources. The Commission provides the following additional statement, in 
accordance with § 25-7-110.5(5)(b), CRS.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
63 
(I) 
Any federal requirements that are applicable to this situation with a commentary 
on those requirements; 
The Commission adopted revisions in Regulation Number 24 to modify the 
definitions of vapor loss and leaks at petroleum refineries and the monitoring 
programs to require the recording and, subsequently, repair of leaks. These 
facilities may also be subject to EPA’s NSPS J, NSPS Ja, NSPS XX, NSPS 
GGG, NSPS GGGa, NSPS QQQ, NESHAP CC, NESHAP R and NESHAP UUU. 
The adopted leak detection limits are more stringent than the ones in the federal 
rules and do not conflict with the federal requirements. 
(II) 
Whether the applicable federal requirements are performance-based or 
technology-based and whether there is any flexibility in those requirements, and 
if not, why not; 
The federal rules discussed in (I) are primarily technology-based in that they 
largely prescribe the use of specific technologies or work practices to comply. 
There are flexibilities in how these reductions can be achieved. Applicable 
NESHAP and NSPS are performance-based and provide flexibility to states and 
sources regarding how to reduce emissions and otherwise meet performance 
standards. 
(III) 
Whether the applicable federal requirements specifically address the issues that 
are of concern to Colorado and whether data or information that would 
reasonably reflect Colorado's concern and situation was considered in the federal 
process that established the federal requirements; 
EPA develops NSPS or NESHAP considering national information and data, not 
Colorado specific issues or concerns. The above referenced federal 
requirements concerning petroleum storage are not as stringent as those 
adopted by the Commission in Regulation Number 24. 
(IV) 
Whether the proposed requirement will improve the ability of the regulated 
community to comply in a more cost-effective way by clarifying confusing or 
potentially conflicting requirements (within or cross-media), increasing certainty, 
or preventing or reducing the need for costly retrofit to meet more stringent 
requirements later; 
The adopted rules will provide certainty to sources, by providing specified 
technology-based performance standards and clear timing requirements. The 
adopted rules aid Colorado in achieving emissions control requirements as 
directed by Section 25-7-109.5(7) and provides regulated entities flexibility to 
identify and cost-effectively employ emissions control technologies to reduce 
PTAC emissions in the state. 
(V) 
Whether there is a timing issue which might justify changing the time frame for 
implementation of federal requirements;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
64 
These are state-specific rules that are not addressing federal requirements. 
Thus, there are no timing issues related to other applicable NESHAP or NSPS. 
(VI) 
Whether the proposed requirement will assist in establishing and maintaining a 
reasonable margin for accommodation of uncertainty and future growth; 
The adopted rules will assist in establishing and maintaining a reasonable margin 
for accommodation of uncertainty and future growth as it does not limit sources 
to specific technology to comply and aligns with regulations seen in federal and 
other state programs. Additionally, the rules establish reasonable times for 
meeting PTAC emissions control requirements. The rules afford the ability to 
affect required emissions controls through alternative compliance measures 
where needed and establish multiple pathways for compliance. 
(VII) 
Whether the proposed requirement establishes or maintains reasonable equity in 
the requirements for various sources; 
The Commission considered source emissions rates and locations to identify 
sources of concern for this emission control regulation. 
(VIII) Whether others would face increased costs if a more stringent rule is not 
enacted; 
If a more stringent rule is not enacted, public health and welfare and the 
environment could face increased costs associated with delays in implementation 
of appropriate PTAC measures. 
(IX) 
Whether the proposed requirement includes procedural, reporting, or monitoring 
requirements that are different from applicable federal requirements and, if so, 
why and what the “compelling reason” is for different procedural, reporting, or 
monitoring requirements; 
There are separate requirements to report or monitor PTAC from applicable 
federal regulations. Federal regulations have different monitoring and reporting 
thresholds for different types of source categories. In order for Colorado to 
protect public health and welfare and the environment, state-specific regulations 
that require more stringent or specific requirements are necessary. The 
Commission is granted additional authority to adopt PTAC-specific 
considerations under Section 25-7-109.5 (1)(d), C.R.S.: Emissions of toxic air 
contaminants should be monitored and controlled to levels that avoid, minimize, 
or mitigate harm to public health and the environment; and (2)(b) Analyze public 
health risks from toxic air contaminant emissions from sources based on verified 
science and reporting of emissions data, including consideration of background 
levels in the ambient air. 
Where applicable, the Commission has not adopted additional procedural, 
reporting or monitoring requirements where the federal requirements satisfy 
Colorado specific concerns.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
65 
(X) 
Whether demonstrated technology is available to comply with the proposed 
requirement; 
In aligning with requirements in Section 25-7-109.5(7)(a), C.R.S., the 
Commission adopted provisions that may require technology that has been 
demonstrated as available and technically feasible in other states or federal 
regulations. 
(XI) 
Whether the proposed requirement will contribute to the prevention of pollution or 
address a potential problem and represent a more cost-effective environmental 
gain; 
The adopted requirements will prevent pollution of identified PTAC, as directed 
by HB 22-1244. Anticipated reductions in harmful air pollutants are expected to 
have positive health benefits for the people of Colorado. Cost effectiveness of the 
regulations are outlined in the rulemaking materials such as the Economic Impact 
Analysis and various technical support documents. 
(XII) 
Whether an alternative rule, including a no-action alternative, would address the 
required standard. 
The Commission is required to adopt emission control regulations that reduce 
emissions of each PTAC and prioritize reductions in disproportionately impacted 
communities with multiple sources of emissions of PTACs. A no-action 
alternative would not meet the statutory requirements. Alternative rules could 
address this directive, such as different compliance timelines and emission 
control requirements. However, the Commission believes that for this initial 
promulgation of PTAC emission control strategies, the adopted categorical 
requirements best meet the statutory considerations in Section 25-7-109.5(7)(b), 
C.R.S. 
Findings of Fact 
To the extent that § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S., requirements apply to this rulemaking, 
and after considering all the information in the record, the Commission hereby 
makes the determination that 
(I) 
These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, 
and sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered 
all information submitted by interested parties. 
(II) 
Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a 
demonstrable reduction of PTAC emissions. 
(III) 
Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about 
reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the 
costs to implement and comply with the rules.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
66 
(IV) 
The rules are the most cost-effective alternative to achieve the necessary 
reduction in air pollution and provide the regulated entity flexibility. 
(V) 
The selected regulatory alternative will maximize the air quality benefits of 
regulation in the most cost-effective manner.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-28 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
67 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 06/14/2023. 
Rules VI C.2.a, VI C.3, VI C.4.a(ii)-(iii), VI C.4.b(i), VI C.4.b(i)(J), Part C II eff. 
06/14/2026.
