---
id: "5_CCR_1001-32"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "5 CCR 1001-32"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12565&fileName=5%20CCR%201001-32&type=pdf"
---

#### 5_CCR_1001-32. 5 CCR 1001-32

1 
Department of Public Health and Environment 
Air Quality Control Commission 
REGULATION NUMBER 28 BUILDING BENCHMARKING AND PERFORMANCE 
STANDARDS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
Outline of Regulation 
PART A 
Applicability and General Provisions  
PART B 
Benchmarking and Reporting Requirements  
PART C 
Building Performance Standards and Compliance Pathways 
PART D 
Recordkeeping  
PART E 
Penalties  
PART F 
Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose 
Pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes Section 24-4-103 (12.5), materials incorporated 
by reference are available for public inspection during normal business hours, or copies 
may be obtained at a reasonable cost from the Air Quality Control Commission (the 
Commission), 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, Colorado 80246-1530. Some 
material incorporated by reference is also available through the United States 
Government Printing Office, online at www.govinfo.gov. Materials incorporated by 
reference are those editions in existence as of the date indicated and do not include any 
later amendments. 
PART A 
Applicability and General Provisions 
I. 
Purpose 
I.A. 
This regulation establishes energy-use benchmarking data reporting and 
building performance requirements for owners of existing and new 
covered buildings in order to meet greenhouse-gas emission reductions 
goals for such buildings under 25-7-142(8)(a)(II)(A)-(B), C.R.S. (2022). 
II. 
Applicability 
II.A. 
This regulation applies to owners of covered buildings, as defined in 
Section IlI.O. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
2 
II.B. 
The owner of a public building must only comply with the building 
performance standards in Part C for that covered building upon 
completion of any construction or renovation project that has an estimated 
cost of at least $500,000 and impacts at least twenty-five percent (25%) of 
the covered building’s square footage, excluding upgrades such as 
painting, flooring, or tenant finishes that do not impact energy use. 
III. 
Definitions 
III.A. “Affordable housing” means (I) for a household residing in housing on a 
rental basis, annual income of the household is at or below eighty percent 
of the area median income of households of that size in the county in 
which the housing is located; (II) for a household residing in housing on a 
home ownership basis, annual income of the household is at or below one 
hundred forty percent of the area median income of households of that 
size in the county in which the housing is located; or (III) housing that 
incorporates mixed-income development. 
III.B. “Aggregated data” means electric or gas utility customer data, alone or in 
combination with non-customer data, resulting from processing (e.g., 
average of a group of customers) and/or the compilation of customer data 
of one or more customers from which all unique identifiers and personal 
information has been removed. 
III.C. “Aggregation threshold” means, for each qualifying utility, the minimum 
number of customer accounts associated with a covered building for which 
the qualifying utility may provide the owner of the covered building with 
aggregated data upon request without requiring each customer's consent 
to have the customer's energy-use data accessed or shared. 
III.D. “Agricultural purpose” means a building or structure used to house farm 
implements, hay, unprocessed grain, poultry, livestock, or other 
agricultural products. For the purpose of this definition, this building or 
structure must not contain habitable space or a place of employment 
where agricultural products are processed or treated or packaged; nor is it 
a place used by the public. The gross floor area of a building or structure 
used for an agricultural purpose must include all space within the building 
or structure to determine if the building or structure meets the covered 
building exemption Section III.O.2. 
III.E. “Agricultural product” means any agricultural, horticultural, viticultural, or 
vegetable products or poultry or poultry products grown or produced in 
Colorado. Agricultural products do not include “regulated marijuana” as 
defined by Colorado’s Marijuana Enforcement Division in 1 CCR 212-3 
(2022).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
3 
III.F. “Benchmarking” means to input benchmarking data into a benchmarking 
tool to measure and assess the energy performance and greenhouse gas 
pollution for a covered building for the reporting year. 
III.G. “Benchmarking data” means the information related to a covered building 
that is input into or calculated by a benchmarking tool. 
III.H. “Benchmarking tool” means the ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager or a 
successor online resource used to track and assess the performance of 
certain properties relative to similar properties. 
III.I. 
“Beneficial electrification” means converting the energy source of a 
customer’s end use from a nonelectric fuel source to a high-efficiency 
electric source, or avoiding the use of nonelectric fuel sources in new 
construction or industrial applications, if the result of the conversion or 
avoidance is to 
III.I.1. Reduce net greenhouse gas emissions over the lifetime of the 
conversion or avoidance; and 
III.I.2. Reduce societal costs or provide for more efficient utilization of grid 
resources. 
III.I.3. Beneficial electrification does not include 
III.I.3.a. 
Retail distributed generation; or 
III.I.3.b. 
A renewable energy storage system. 
III.J. 
“Biomedical research laboratory” means a scientific laboratory used to 
conduct research relating to both biology and medicine. 
III.K. “Building owner” means a person possessing title to a building or property 
or the person’s designated agent. 
III.L. “Building performance standards” (BPS) means standards a covered 
building must meet to achieve the greenhouse gas reduction requirements 
under 25-7-142(8)(a)(II), C.R.S. (2022). 
III.M. “Campus” means a collection of two or more buildings that are owned and 
operated by the same person and that have a shared purpose and 
function as a single property. Campus includes two or more of the 
buildings that comprise the capitol complex. 
III.N. “CEO” means the Colorado Energy Office.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
4 
III.O. “Covered building” means a building comprising a gross floor area of fifty 
thousand (50,000) square feet or more that is occupied by a single 
occupant or a group of tenants. Covered building does not include 
III.O.1. 
Covered buildings that are a storage facility, stand-alone 
parking garage, or an airplane hangar that lacks heating and 
cooling; 
III.O.2. 
A building in which more than half of the gross floor area is 
used for manufacturing or industrial purposes as defined in Section 
III.; or 
III.O.3. 
A single-family home, duplex, or triplex. 
III.O.4. 
An agricultural building, defined as a building or structure 
used to house agricultural implements (including agricultural 
equipment as described in 39-3-122, C.R.S. (2025) but not 
including implements that are primarily for rent or sale), hay, 
unprocessed grain, poultry, livestock, or other agricultural products 
or inputs primarily for the purpose of maintaining or operating an 
agricultural process. 
III.P. “Customer-owned retail distributed generation system” means retail 
distributed generation or a renewable energy storage system owned or 
controlled by a covered building owner. 
III.Q. “Data center” means buildings specifically designed and equipped to meet 
the needs of high density computing equipment, such as server racks, 
used for data storage and processing. Gross floor area of data centers 
should include all space within the building(s) including raised floor 
computing space, server rack aisles, storage silos, control console areas, 
battery rooms, mechanical rooms for cooling equipment, administrative 
office areas, elevator shafts, stairways, break rooms and restrooms. When 
a data center is located within a larger building, the gross floor area of the 
data center should include only the spaces that are uniquely associated 
with the data center (e.g., not include spaces shared by the data center 
and other tenants, such as break rooms or hallways) in the building. 
III.R. “Demand flexibility” means the use of communication and control 
technology to shift electricity use across hours of the day while delivering 
end-use services (e.g., air conditioning, domestic hot water, electric 
vehicle charging) at the same or better quality but lower cost. It does this 
by applying automatic control to reshape a customer’s demand profile 
continuously in ways that either are invisible to or minimally affect the 
customer, and by leveraging more-granular rate structures that monetize 
demand flexibility’s capability to reduce costs for both customers and the 
grid.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
5 
III.S. “Duplex” means a multi-family dwelling that has two separate residential 
units within one standalone building with the two units sharing a common 
wall or ceiling/floor and each having its own entrance. 
III.T. “ENERGY STAR” means the federal program authorized by 42 U.S.C. § 
6294a (2007), as amended, to help customers, businesses, and industry 
save money and protect the environment through the adoption of energy-
efficient products and practices. 
III.U. “ENERGY STAR score” means the one-to-one-hundred numeric rating 
generated by the ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager as a measurement of 
a building's energy efficiency. 
III.V. “ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager” means the resource management 
tool that enables building owners to track and benchmark energy in a 
building, or across multiple buildings, through an online platform used to 
measure their performance. 
III.W. “Energy-use intensity” (EUI) means a building’s energy use, expressed as 
total site energy use per square foot per year. 
III.X. “Financial hardship” means a property is experiencing at least one of the 
following conditions. 
III.X.1. The property has been included on a city's, county's, or city and 
county's annual tax lien sale list within the previous two years. 
III.X.2. The property is an asset subject to a court-appointed receiver that 
controls the asset due to financial stress. 
III.X.3. The property is owned by a financial institution as a result of a 
default by a borrower. 
III.X.4. The property has been acquired by a deed in lieu of foreclosure. 
III.X.5. The property is the subject of a senior mortgage subject to a notice 
of default. 
III.X.6. Due to the governor declaring a disaster emergency pursuant to 
§24-33.5-704 (4), C.R.S. (2022), the property, in at least two of the 
previous five years, generated annual rental income or revenue that 
totals sixty percent or less of the five-year average immediately 
preceding the disaster. 
III.Y. “Greenhouse gas” (GHG) means carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), 
nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons 
(PFCs), sulfur hexafluoride (SF6), and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
6 
III.Z. “Gross floor area” (GFA) means the total building area, as measured from 
the outside surface of each exterior wall of the building, including above-
grade and below-grade space. 
III.AA. “High-efficiency electric equipment” means electrical equipment that is, for 
example, certified according to ENERGY STAR, or meets the minimum 
efficiency requirements of the current version of American Society of 
Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers’ (ASHRAE) 
Standard 90.1, 2021 International Energy Conservation Code (IECC), the 
Federal Energy Management Program (FEMP) efficiency requirements, or 
newer requirements where applicable. 
III.BB. “Industrial purpose” means a building or structure used for industrial 
operations including, but not limited to, factories, mills, shops, processing 
plants, assembly plants, fabricating plants, research or development 
facilities, operations by energy producers, electric generation unit, 
refineries, meat packing plants, dairies, steel mills, cement plants, mining 
operations, airline operations, wastewater treatment plants, landfills, and 
abandoned coal mines. The gross floor area of a building or structure 
used for industrial operations must include all space within the building(s) 
at the building or structure including production or industrial operation 
areas, offices, conference rooms, employee break rooms, storage areas, 
mechanical rooms, stairways, and elevator shafts to determine if the 
building or structure meets the covered building exemption Section III.O.2. 
III.CC. “Manufacturing purpose” means a building or structure that includes a 
main production area containing machinery and equipment used for 
producing products. The gross floor area of a building or structure used for 
producing products must include all space within the building(s) at the 
building or structure, including production areas, offices, conference 
rooms, employee break rooms, storage areas, mechanical rooms, 
stairways, and elevator shafts to determine if the building or structure 
meets the covered building exemption Section III.O.2. For purposes of the 
exemption in Section III.O.2., manufacturing purposes does not include 
marijuana cultivation facilities, as defined by Colorado’s Marijuana 
Enforcement Division in 1 CCR 212-3 (2022). 
III.DD. “Mixed use building” means a building that contains multiple property 
types where there is not one single use type that represents 50% or more 
of the building or property’s gross floor area, including parking gross floor 
area. 
III.EE. “Multifamily housing” means any property used or intended to be used as 
a residence and that contains four or more dwelling units. Multifamily 
housing includes a condominium or cooperative.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
7 
III.FF. “Parking” means buildings and lots used for parking vehicles. This 
includes open parking lots, partially enclosed parking structures, and 
completely enclosed (or underground) parking structures. Parking garages 
may be free standing or physically connected to the property. 
III.GG. “Power purchase agreement” (PPA) means an agreement executed 
between a covered building owner and the owner of a renewable energy 
resource or renewable energy storage system where the energy or share 
of energy produced from the renewable energy resource or renewable 
energy storage system is dedicated to serving the covered building. For 
purposes of this rule, a utility cannot be the owner of the renewable 
energy resource or renewable energy storage system. 
III.HH. “Power usage effectiveness” (PUE) means a measure of how much 
energy is consumed by the power supply and cooling systems in a Data 
Center relative to the amount of energy delivered directly to the IT 
equipment. PUE is equal to the total energy consumption of a Data Center 
(for all fuels) divided by the energy consumption used for the IT 
equipment. 
III.II. “Property type” means the primary use of a building. Each property type 
will have a different set of property use details, which refer to the business 
activity at the property, such as weekly operating hours, number of 
workers, and number of computers. If a building or property has multiple 
uses, for purposes of benchmarking the property type is based on the use 
that accounts for more than 50% of a building’s or property’s gross floor 
area. As referenced in the definition of mixed use building in Part A, 
Section III.DD., if there is not one single use type that represents 50% or 
more of the building or property’s gross floor area, the property type will be 
classified as “mixed use.” 
III.JJ. “Public building” means a covered building owned by: the state; a local 
government; a district or special district regulated under title 32; a state 
institution of higher education; a private institution of higher education as 
defined in § 23-18-102 (9), C.R.S. (2022); a school district created 
pursuant to article 30 of title 22; and a charter school authorized pursuant 
to Part 1 of Article 30.5 of Title 22 of the C.R.S. (2022). 
III.KK. “Qualifying utility” means an electric or gas utility with five thousand or 
more active commercial and industrial service connections, accounts, or 
customers in Colorado, including: an investor-owned electric or gas utility; 
a cooperative electric association; or a municipally owned electric or gas 
utility. Qualifying utility also means a natural gas supplier with five or more 
active commercial or industrial connections, accounts, or customers in 
Colorado.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
8 
III.LL. “Renewable energy credit” (REC) means a contractual right to the full set 
of non-energy attributes, including any and all credits, benefits, emissions 
reductions, offsets, and allowances, howsoever entitled, directly 
attributable to a specific amount of electric energy generated from a 
renewable energy resource. One REC results from one megawatt hour 
(MWh) of electric energy generated from a renewable energy resource. 
III.MM. 
“Renewable energy” means useful electrical, thermal, or 
mechanical energy converted directly or indirectly from resources of 
continuous energy flow or that are perpetually replenished and whose 
utilization is sustainable indefinitely. The term includes, without limitation, 
sunlight, the wind, geothermal energy, hydrodynamic forces, and organic 
matter available on a renewable basis such as forest residues, agricultural 
crops and wastes, wood and wood wastes, animal wastes, livestock 
operation residue, aquatic plants, and municipal wastes. 
III.NN. “Renewable energy resource” means solar, wind, geothermal, biomass 
that is greenhouse gas neutral, new hydroelectricity with a nameplate 
rating of ten megawatts or less, and hydroelectricity in existence on 
January 1, 2005, with a nameplate rating of thirty megawatts or less and 
that does not require the construction of any new dams or reservoirs. A 
biomass electric generation facility that was in existence on or before 
January 1, 2021, or that has a nameplate rating of ten megawatts or less, 
is a renewable energy resource. 
III.OO. “Renewable energy storage system” means any commercially available 
system, including batteries and batteries paired with on-site generation, 
that is capable of retaining, storing, and delivering energy by chemical, 
thermal, mechanical, or other means. 
III.PP. “Renovation” means the repair, remodeling, restoration, and preservation 
of a covered building and any associated fixtures or improvements. 
III.QQ. “Retail distributed generation” means a renewable energy resource or 
renewable energy storage that is located on any property owned or leased 
by any customer within the service territory of the qualifying retail utility 
and is interconnected on the customer’s side of the utility meter. Retail 
distributed generation must provide electric energy primarily to serve the 
applicable covered building’s loads and must be sized to supply no more 
than two hundred percent of the reasonably expected average annual total 
consumption of electricity at all properties owned or leased by the 
customer within the utility’s service territory. Retail distributed generation 
also includes retail distributed generation resources provided to a covered 
building owner through a power purchase agreement or a community solar 
garden subscription. Retail distributed generation does not include utility-
owned renewable electric generation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
9 
III.RR. “Single-family home” means a standalone residential building designed to 
be used as a single-dwelling unit with one owner and no shared walls with 
another residence. 
III.SS. “Site energy-use intensity” or “Site EUI” means the annual amount of all 
the energy the building consumes on-site, regardless of the source. A 
building’s site EUI is calculated by dividing the total energy consumed by 
the building in one year (measured in kBtu) by the total gross floor area of 
the building. 
III.TT. “Source energy-use intensity” or “Source EUI” means EUI calculations that 
consider the total amount of energy required for the building, including the 
energy used to produce and transmit any energy that comes from offsite. 
III.UU. “State institution of higher education” means an institution as defined in § 
23-1-108(7)(g)(II), CRS, (2022) and the Auraria Higher Education Center, 
governed pursuant to Article 70 of Title 23 of C.R.S. (2022). State 
institution of higher education does not include biomedical research 
laboratories. 
III.VV. “Triplex” means a multi-family dwelling that has three separate residential 
units within one standalone building with the units sharing one or two 
common walls or ceiling/floors and each having its own entrance. 
III.WW. 
“Under-resourced building” means a building with limited access to 
resources, including revenues, funding, grants, or gifts that can help with 
building operations or to comply with the requirements of this rule, than 
other buildings within the same building type in the same utility service 
territory. Under-resourced buildings include, but are not limited to 
III.WW.1. 
Buildings owned by organizations that qualify at tax exempt 
under Section 501(c) of the Internal Review Code. 
III.WW.2. 
Affordable housing. 
III.WW.3. 
Buildings that are owned by an organization that provides 
human services that are regulated by the Colorado Department of 
Human Services, if those services are also provided in the building. 
III.WW.4. 
Restricted income providers. 
III.XX. “Unoccupied” means a building without occupants or tenants other than 
security, maintenance staff, or construction workers during a construction 
or renovation project. 
III.YY. “Weather-normalized” means a method for modifying the measured 
building energy use in a specific weather year to energy use under normal 
weather conditions.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
10 
IV. 
Annual fee 
IV.A. Except as provided in Section IV.B., covered building owners must pay an 
annual fee, by June 1 of every reporting year, to the CEO of $100 per 
covered building. Beginning in calendar year 2026, the annual fee must be 
paid by November 1. 
IV.B. Owners of public covered buildings are exempt from the payment of the 
annual fee. 
V. 
Severability 
If any section, clause, phrase, or standard contained in these regulations is for any 
reason held to be inoperative, unconstitutional, void, or invalid, the validity of the 
remaining portions thereof will not be affected and the Commission declares that it 
severally passed and adopted these provisions separately and apart.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
11 
PART B 
Benchmarking and Reporting Requirements 
I. 
By June 1, 2024, and by June 1 of each year thereafter, covered building owners 
must report benchmarking data for the previous calendar year and additional 
information as specified below to the CEO on a CEO approved form. Owners of 
newly constructed buildings (i.e., buildings that were not built or occupied such 
that they had 2021 benchmarking data to submit by the initial reporting deadline 
of December 1, 2022) must start collecting benchmarking data once the owner 
has received a certificate of occupancy for the building and submit their first 
annual benchmarking data report the subsequent year (e.g., for a building with a 
certificate of occupancy starting March 1, 2023, submit by June 1, 2024, the 
building data from March 1, 2023, through December 31, 2023). Before 
submitting a benchmarking report, the covered building owner must run any 
automated data-checking function of the benchmarking tool and correct any 
errors discovered. The benchmarking data reported to the CEO must include the 
following. 
I.A. 
Compliance pathway selection. 
I.A.1. In the June 1, 2024, report, covered building owners, except for 
owners of public buildings subject to Section I.A.6., must specify 
which compliance pathway in Part C, Section I. the covered 
building owner will follow to reduce the building greenhouse gas 
emissions in order to achieve the 2026 targets. If a covered building 
owner does not specify their chosen compliance pathway, the 
covered building owner must reduce building greenhouse gas 
emissions in accordance with the energy efficiency pathway in Part 
C, Section I.A.1. 
I.A.2. In the June 1, 2028, report, covered building owners, except for 
owners of public buildings subject to Section I.A.6., must specify 
which compliance pathway in Part C, Section I. the covered 
building owner will follow to reduce the building’s greenhouse gas 
emissions in order to achieve the 2030 targets. If a covered building 
owner does not specify their chosen compliance pathway, the 
covered building owner must reduce building greenhouse gas 
emissions in accordance with the energy efficiency compliance 
pathway in Part C, Section I.A.1. 
I.A.3. Covered building owners who specify the standard percent 
reduction compliance pathway in Part C, Sections I.A.3. or I.B.2. 
must submit each year of benchmarking data from 2021 up to the 
notification year (e.g., for a June 1, 2024, notification submit 2021-
2023 data). New covered buildings for which a 2021 baseline does 
not exist must provide each year of benchmarking data starting with

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
12 
and following the year the owner receives a certificate of occupancy 
for the building up to the notification year. 
I.A.4. Covered building owners, except for covered buildings described in 
Part C, Section I.D., who did not submit a compliance pathway 
selection in accordance with Sections I.A.1. or I.A.2. must comply 
by default with the energy efficiency compliance pathway in Part C, 
Section I.A.1. until a compliance pathway selection is submitted. 
Covered buildings described in Part C, Section I.D. must comply by 
default with a standard percent reduction compliance pathway. 
I.A.5. Covered building owners who are assigned the energy efficiency 
compliance pathway in Part C, Section I.A.1. pursuant to Part B, 
Section I.A.4. may still select a percent reduction compliance 
pathway in either Part C, Sections I.A.3. or I.B.2. if the covered 
building owner submits their benchmarking data for each year from 
2021 up to the current reporting year (e.g., for a June 1, 2024, 
report submit 2021-2023 data). New covered buildings for which a 
2021 baseline does not exist must provide each year of 
benchmarking data starting with and following the year the owner 
receives a certificate of occupancy for the building. 
I.A.6. Owners of public buildings 
I.A.6.a. 
That become subject to performance standards under 
Part C between January 1, 2024, and December 31, 2026, 
must notify the CEO no later than sixty (60) days or in its 
next benchmarking report following completion of a 
construction or renovation project as described in Part A, 
Section II.B., whichever is sooner, of their chosen 
compliance pathway in Part C, Section I. 
I.A.6.b. 
That become subject to performance standards under 
Part C on or after January 1, 2027, must notify the CEO in its 
next benchmarking report following completion of a 
construction or renovation project as described in Part A, 
Section II.B. of their chosen compliance pathway in Part C, 
Section I. 
I.A.6.c. 
That specify the standard percent reduction 
compliance pathway in Part C, Sections I.A.3. or I.B.2. must 
submit each year of benchmarking data from 2021 up to the 
notification year (e.g., for a June 1, 2024, notification submit 
2021-2023 data). Owners of public buildings for which a 
2021 baseline does not exist must provide each year of 
benchmarking data starting with and following the year the

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
13 
owner receives a certificate of occupancy for the building up 
to the notification year. 
I.A.6.d. 
That do not specify their chosen compliance pathway 
must comply by default with the energy efficiency 
compliance pathway in Part C, Section I.A.1. until a 
compliance pathway selection is submitted. 
I.B. 
A physical description of the covered building and descriptions of its 
operational characteristics, including 
I.B.1. The name of the covered building, if any. 
I.B.2. The physical street address of the covered building, or, if no street 
address is assigned, then the latitude and longitude of the building 
or buildings. 
I.B.3. The primary use(s) of the covered building. 
I.B.4. The covered building’s gross floor area. 
I.B.5. The years in which the covered building has been certified by 
ENERGY STAR and the most recent date of certification, if 
applicable. 
I.B.6. The data generated by the benchmarking tool for the covered 
building, including 
I.B.6.a. 
The ENERGY STAR score, if applicable. 
I.B.6.b. 
Monthly energy use by fuel type. 
I.B.6.c. 
Annual electricity use by the covered building 
associated with the customer-owned retail distributed 
generation system or electricity purchased from retail 
distributed generation, if applicable, subject to the 
requirements of Part C, Sections I.B.1.b. or I.B.1.c. 
I.B.6.d. 
Annual electricity produced by the customer-owned 
retail distribution generation system in kilowatt-hours (kWh) 
that is exported to the grid and not associated with the 
covered building’s electricity use, if applicable. 
I.B.6.e. 
Site energy-use intensity and source energy-use 
intensity. 
I.B.6.f. Weather-normalized site energy-use intensity and source 
energy-use intensity.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
14 
I.B.6.g. 
Confirmation from the benchmarking tool that data 
quality has been checked and no errors were identified by 
the benchmarking tool. 
I.B.6.h. 
Annual total electricity consumption, in kilowatt-hours 
(kWh), if applicable. 
I.B.6.i. Annual total gas consumption, in British Thermal Units (Btu), 
if applicable. 
I.B.6.j. Monthly peak electricity demand, if available for reporting 
through the benchmarking tool, if applicable. 
I.B.7. Greenhouse gas emissions, including total, indirect, and direct 
emissions. 
I.B.8. The name of the gas and/or electric utility provider(s) for the 
covered building. 
I.B.9. The type and number of electric vehicle (EV) charging stations 
associated with the building and all relevant meter information. 
I.B.10. Covered buildings that are marijuana cultivation facilities must 
report their property type as “manufacturing” in the benchmarking 
tool. 
I.C. 
In addition to the data generated by the benchmarking tool, covered 
building owners must report to the CEO the following information, if 
applicable. 
I.C.1. A change in property type for a covered building, if applicable, 
including the prior property type(s) and the new property type(s), as 
well as supporting documentation for the new property type(s) 
designation since the previous benchmarking report. 
I.C.2. Any AIRS IDs associated with the covered building or covered 
buildings reported as a campus. 
I.D. 
A demonstration of progress towards meeting the building performance 
standards in Part C. Such demonstration may include, but is not limited to, 
documentation of completed or planned energy efficiency measures or 
replacements of fossil fuel equipment with high-efficiency electric 
equipment, including dates completed and/or the timeframe for any 
planned measures or replacements, as well as results from the ENERGY 
STAR Portfolio Manager Building Emissions Calculator in a spreadsheet 
(.xlsx) file downloaded from the calculator.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
15 
I.E. 
Covered building owners who utilize their customer-owned retail 
distributed generation system or renewable energy resource as specified 
in Part C, Section I.B. must submit documentation of the ownership and 
retirement of their renewable energy credits to demonstrate compliance. 
I.F. 
The following covered building owners may report benchmarking data at 
the campus-wide level. 
I.F.1. The owner of multiple covered buildings that are part of a master 
metered group of buildings without sub-metering. 
I.F.2. The owner of a correctional facility, local jail, or private-contract 
prison, as defined in 17-1-102, CRS (2022); 31-15-401(1)(j), CRS 
(2022); municipal jail, as authorized in 31-15401(1)(j), CRS (2022); 
or juvenile detention facility governed by Part 15 of Article 2.5 of 
Title 19 of Colorado Revised Statutes (2022). 
I.F.3. The owner of a public building that is a covered building. 
I.G. 
Covered building owners reporting benchmarking data at the campus-wide 
level must also submit documentation of the number of covered buildings 
that are part of the campus; the property type of each of the covered 
buildings; the meter information for each building; and the gross floor area, 
including parking, of each of the covered buildings. 
I.H. 
Covered building owners must include in the 2027 through 2030 
benchmarking data report a demonstration that the covered building met 
the 2026 site EUI, greenhouse gas emission reduction target, data center 
target, or building specific target as provided in Part C. 
I.H.1. Building owners demonstrating compliance under Part C, Section 
I.A., must include the 2026, or subsequent year through 2029 (e.g., 
in the 2028 report include the data reflecting 2027) results from the 
ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager, specifically the weather-
normalized site EUI. In meeting the site EUI targets in Part C, 
Section I.A., individual building site EUIs must be normalized for 
weather and, if and when available in ENERGY STAR Portfolio 
Manager, normalized for occupancy. 
I.H.2. Building owners demonstrating compliance under Part C, Section 
I.B., must include the 2026, or subsequent year through 2029 (e.g., 
in the 2028 report include the data reflecting 2027) results from the 
ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager Building Emissions Calculator in 
a spreadsheet (.xlsx) file downloaded from the calculator. Building 
owners must also include, if applicable, documentation of the 
building’s high-efficiency electric equipment, including, but not 
limited to, the equipment’s ENERGY STAR certification, 
compliance with FEMP efficiency requirements, compliance with

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
16 
ASHRAE Standard 90.1 or IECC 2021, or newer requirements if 
applicable. 
I.H.3. Building owners demonstrating compliance under Part C, Sections 
I.C. or I.D., must demonstrate that the covered building has met its 
applicable building specific target for 2026, or subsequent year 
through 2029 (e.g., in the 2028 report include the data reflecting 
2027). 
I.H.4. Building owners demonstrating compliance through an adjustment 
under Part C, Section II. must include the specific adjusted timeline 
or target as approved by the CEO and documentation 
demonstrating the building owner’s progress on the submitted plan 
to achieve an adjusted timeline, if applicable. 
I.I. 
Covered building owners must include in the 2031 benchmarking data 
report, and each year thereafter, a demonstration that the covered building 
met the 2030 site EUI, greenhouse gas emission reduction target, data 
center target, or building specific target as provided in Part C. 
I.I.1. Building owners demonstrating compliance under Part C, Section 
I.A., must include the 2030, or subsequent year (e.g., in the 2032 
report include the data reflecting 2031) results from the ENERGY 
STAR Portfolio Manager, specifically the weather normalized site 
EUI. In meeting the site EUI targets in Part C, Section I.A., 
individual building site EUIs must be normalized for weather and, if 
and when available in ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager, 
normalized for occupancy. 
I.I.2. Building owners demonstrating compliance under Part C, Section 
I.B., must include the 2030, or subsequent year (e.g., in the 2032 
report include the data reflecting 2031) results from the ENERGY 
STAR Portfolio Manager Building Emissions Calculator in a 
spreadsheet (.xlsx) file downloaded from the calculator. Building 
owners must also include, if applicable, documentation of the 
building’s high-efficiency electric equipment, including, but not 
limited to, the equipment’s ENERGY STAR certification, 
compliance with FEMP efficiency requirements, compliance with 
ASHRAE Standard 90.1 or IECC 2021, or newer requirements if 
applicable. 
I.I.3. Building owners demonstrating compliance under Part C, Sections 
I.C. or I.D., must demonstrate that the covered building has met its 
applicable building specific target for 2030, or subsequent year 
(e.g., in the 2032 report include the data reflecting 2031).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
17 
I.I.4. Building owners demonstrating compliance through an adjustment 
under Part C, Section II. must include the specific adjusted timeline 
or target as approved by the CEO and documentation 
demonstrating the building owner’s progress on the submitted plan 
to achieve an adjusted timeline, if applicable. 
II. 
Waivers, extensions, and exemptions 
II.A. 
Waivers 
II.A.1. A covered building owner may seek a waiver from the annual 
requirement to report benchmarking data in Part B, Section I. The 
waiver request must be submitted on a CEO approved form. To 
seek a waiver, the covered building owner must submit waiver 
documentation to and receive approval from the CEO. The covered 
building owner must submit a new waiver request for each year the 
owner is seeking a waiver. Covered building owners applying for a 
report waiver for the calendar year to be benchmarked must submit 
a waiver application to the CEO any time after June 1 of the 
calendar year to be benchmarked and on or before May 1 of the 
reporting year (e.g., for calendar year 2023 data, the waiver request 
must be submitted between June 1, 2023, and May 1, 2024). The 
CEO may approve an alternate timeline for submitting a waiver 
request on a case by case basis. A benchmarking waiver request 
must establish that the covered building has met one or more of the 
following conditions for the calendar year to be benchmarked. 
II.A.1.a. 
The covered building was unoccupied for at least 
thirty consecutive days of the year. 
II.A.1.b. 
A demolition permit was issued for the entire covered 
building. Submission of a copy of the demolition permit is 
required. 
II.A.1.c. 
The covered building met one or more of the 
conditions for financial hardship. 
II.A.1.d. 
The covered building does not meet a qualifying 
utility's aggregation threshold and one or more of the utility 
customers refused to provide the owner with permission to 
access the utility customer's relevant energy-use data. The 
covered building owner must provide proof to the CEO that it 
requested permission from the utility customer or utility 
customers withholding consent at least thirty days before the 
benchmarking report was due, and the owner must submit a 
plan to the CEO to include an energy-use data sharing

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
18 
permission provision in the next lease renewal for the 
building’s tenants. 
II.A.1.e. 
The covered building has four or more utility 
customers, is not located within a qualifying utility's service 
territory, and the owner is unable to obtain aggregated data 
from the utility that serves the covered building. 
II.A.2. A covered building owner who is not listed in Part B, Section I.F., 
may seek a waiver from the annual requirements to report 
benchmarking data on a per building basis and request to instead 
submit benchmarking data as a campus if there is a compelling 
state or national security interest for the covered building owner to 
do so. The covered building owner must provide information to the 
CEO documenting why they are requesting to submit benchmarking 
data as a campus. The CEO may work with the covered building 
owner to permit the owner to submit benchmarking data in a format 
other than through the benchmarking tool in order to address state 
or national security interests related to data reporting. 
II.B. 
Extensions 
II.B.1. A covered building owner may request a time extension from the 
CEO to submit a benchmarking report if the owner submits 
documentation to the CEO demonstrating that, despite the owner's 
good-faith effort, the owner was unable to complete the 
benchmarking report for the calendar year to be benchmarked in a 
timely manner because of the failure or refusal of a qualifying utility 
or a utility customer to provide the necessary information or 
permission, as applicable. 
II.B.2. Covered building owners that request a benchmarking report time 
extension must submit the extension application to the CEO by May 
15 of the reporting year (e.g., by May 15, 2024, for calendar year 
2023 data) on a CEO-approved form. 
II.C. 
Exemptions 
II.C.1. The owner of a building with a gross floor area of 50,000 square 
feet or more that is occupied by a single occupant or group of 
tenants may, in the interest of regulatory certainty, request from the 
CEO an affirmative exemption from the annual requirement to 
report benchmarking data in Part B, Section I. if their building does 
not meet the definition of a covered building in Part A, Section III.O. 
II.C.1.a. 
Any exemption request must be submitted on a CEO 
approved form and include all required information to be 
considered.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
19 
II.C.1.b. 
Building owners may apply for an exemption that will 
be in place until June 1, 2026. After June 1, 2026, building 
owners that have been approved for an exemption must 
reapply. 
II.C.1.c. 
After June 1, 2026, building owners applying for an 
exemption for the calendar year to be benchmarked must 
submit an exemption application to the CEO any time after 
June 1 of the calendar year to be benchmarked and on or 
before May 1 of the reporting year (e.g., for calendar year 
2027 data, the exemption request must be submitted 
between June 1, 2027, and May 1, 2028). The CEO may 
approve an alternate timeline for submitting an exemption 
request on a case by case basis. 
II.C.2. Owners of single-family homes, duplexes, or triplexes are not 
required to file an annual exemption request but must report their 
benchmarking data annually if the property type changes such that 
the building meets the definition of and applicability for a covered 
building. 
II.D. 
If a covered building owner’s waiver or exemption request is denied by the 
CEO, the building owner may request the CEO executive director (or their 
designee) to review the determination. The building owner must request 
the review within sixty (60) days of the initial denial and before the June 1 
reporting deadline for the calendar year in which the waiver was applied 
for. The executive director (or their designee) will make a recommendation 
on the waiver or exemption request within ninety (90) days of the review 
request.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
20 
PART C 
Building Performance Standards and Compliance Pathways 
I. 
Compliance pathways 
Owners of covered buildings must reduce building greenhouse gas emissions through 
one of the following building performance standards compliance pathways. Owners of 
covered buildings must comply with the performance standard in the selected 
compliance pathway on an annual basis beginning in 2026. Owners of covered 
buildings must meet and maintain the 2026 standard for the calendar years 2026 
through 2029 and the 2030 standard for calendar years 2030 through 2050, unless 
otherwise extended by subsequent rules of the Commission. 
I.A. 
Energy efficiency 
I.A.1. The covered building owner must reduce the energy consumption 
of the building through the implementation of energy efficiency 
measures and/or technologies to meet the applicable property type 
weather-normalized site EUI target in Table 1. 
I.A.2. Building owners who received a waiver for the 2021 benchmarking 
requirement or building owners who did not submit benchmarking 
data will automatically be assigned a weather-normalized site EUI 
target based on the data submitted for the other buildings of the 
same property type. 
I.A.3. Standard percent reduction 
I.A.3.a. 
A covered building owner unable to achieve the site 
EUI target in Table 1 may comply by achieving and 
maintaining a standard percent reduction in their covered 
building’s weather-normalized site EUI as compared to the 
covered building’s 2021, or first reporting year, benchmarked 
baseline weather-normalized site EUI. Under this 
compliance pathway, the covered building must 
I.A.3.a.(i) 
In 2026, achieve and maintain a standard 
percent reduction of 13% in comparison to the 
covered building’s 2021 benchmarked baseline 
weather-normalized site EUI. 
I.A.3.a.(ii) 
In 2030, achieve and maintain a standard 
percent reduction of 29% in comparison to the 
covered building’s 2021 benchmarked baseline 
weather-normalized site EUI. 
I.B. 
Greenhouse gas intensity reductions

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
21 
I.B.1. A covered building owner unable to achieve the building 
performance standards in Part C, Section I.A. may demonstrate 
compliance through reduction of greenhouse gas emissions 
attributable to the building’s energy use through energy efficiency 
or replacing fossil fuel equipment with high-efficiency electric 
equipment. A building owner unable to fully comply with the 
greenhouse gas compliance pathway target may use customer-
owned retail distributed generation systems or retail distributed 
generation or utility subscription services in accordance with the 
requirements of Sections I.B.1.b. or I.B.1.c. or I.B.1.d., or may 
achieve greenhouse gas reductions through alternative measures 
approved by the CEO in accordance with Section I.B.1.e. In order 
to use customer-owned retail distributed generation systems or 
retail distributed generation, the covered building owner must 
demonstrate that the covered building owner has submitted an 
energy audit to the CEO and demonstrated that a building owner 
has exhausted cost-effective energy efficiency and electrification 
measures for the covered building. In using renewable energy 
generated by a customer-owned retail distributed generation 
system or retail distributed generation, a covered building owner: 
I.B.1.a. 
Must demonstrate that the covered building has not 
met the applicable greenhouse gas emissions intensity 
target in Table 1 using the ENERGY STAR Portfolio 
Manager Building Emissions Calculator. A covered building 
owner must demonstrate this by doing the following 
I.B.1.a.(i) 
Import or upload the data for the covered 
building from ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager to 
the ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager Building 
Emissions Calculator; 
I.B.1.a.(ii) 
Apply the applicable Colorado locality-specified 
emission factor for grid-supplied electricity to the 
results to obtain total greenhouse gas emissions; and 
I.B.1.a.(iii) 
Divide the covered building’s total greenhouse 
gas emissions from the ENERGY STAR Portfolio 
Manager Building Emissions Calculator by the square 
footage of the building to determine the building’s 
greenhouse gas intensity value for comparison to the 
targets in Table 1. 
I.B.1.b. 
May use renewable energy demonstrated through 
retention of RECs from the covered building owner’s 
customer-owned retail distributed generation system that 
represent no more than the amount of electricity consumed

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
22 
by the building on an annual basis for each compliance year 
in Table 1 to demonstrate compliance with the performance 
target. 
I.B.1.c. 
The owner of a covered building who does not own 
the RECs from their customer-owned retail distributed 
generation system or from retail distributed generation where 
the interconnect request was filed with the utility company 
prior to December 31, 2023, may purchase RECs associated 
with other renewable energy resources located in Colorado 
to demonstrate compliance with Section I.B. if the following 
conditions are met. 
I.B.1.c.(i) 
The covered building owner owns the RECs 
and retires them in the year generated; 
I.B.1.c.(ii) 
The customer-owned retail distributed 
generation system or retail distributed generation is 
located in Colorado, either onsite or offsite of the 
covered building; and 
I.B.1.c.(iii) 
The covered building owner submits to CEO an 
energy audit for the building completed by an 
approved energy auditor as specified in Sections 
II.C.1. through II.C.4. CEO may request that the 
covered building owner provide additional information 
demonstrating that the building owner has analyzed 
energy efficiency and electrification options, will 
employ those to the extent feasible, and renewable 
electric generation is the only way to make up any 
remaining gap to comply with the greenhouse gas 
intensity reduction target. 
I.B.1.c.(iv) 
Once the covered building owner has 
submitted the energy audit and demonstrates that a 
building owner has exhausted cost-effective energy 
efficiency and electrification measures for the covered 
building, the building owner may use renewable 
energy that represents no more than the amount of 
electricity produced by the customer-owned retail 
distributed generation system or retail distributed 
generation and consumed by the covered building on 
an annual basis for each compliance year in Table 1. 
I.B.1.d. 
Owners of covered buildings may utilize utility 
subscription services as a compliance mechanism subject to 
the following limitations.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
23 
I.B.1.d.(i) 
The covered building owner submits to CEO an 
energy audit for the building completed by an 
approved energy auditor as specified in Part B. 
Sections II.C.1. through II.C.5. CEO may request that 
the building owner provide additional information 
demonstrating that the building owner has analyzed 
energy efficiency and electrification options, will 
employ those to the extent feasible, and renewable 
electric generation is the only way to make up any 
remaining gap to comply with the GHG intensity 
reduction target. 
I.B.1.d.(ii) 
Once the covered building owner has 
submitted the energy audit and demonstrates that the 
covered building owner has exhausted cost-effective 
energy efficiency and electrification measures for the 
covered building, the covered building owner may use 
renewable energy demonstrated through retention of 
RECs associated with subscription services for no 
more than the amount needed to achieve compliance 
for under this Section after the results and 
recommendations of the energy audit for the building 
are taken into account. 
I.B.1.d.(iii) 
Any renewable energy resources and 
associated RECs retired for purposes of 
demonstrating compliance with this Section and 
utilized as part of a utility subscription service are not 
also used for any other utility emission reduction 
requirement, including but not limited to Clean Energy 
Plan compliance. 
I.B.1.e. 
The owner of a covered building may use alternative 
measures, including utility-offered programs, not identified in 
this subsection to demonstrate compliance with Section I.B. 
if the owner obtains written approval from the CEO. The 
owner of a covered building shall submit an application to 
the CEO at least six months prior to implementation of the 
measure. The measure can be used for compliance only if 
the following conditions are met. 
I.B.1.e.(i) 
The measure achieves reduction of 
greenhouse gas emission in Colorado. 
I.B.1.e.(ii) 
The greenhouse gas emission reductions are 
not the result of decarbonization of the electrical or 
natural gas utility grids.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
24 
I.B.1.e.(iii) 
The CEO, in consultation with the Division, 
approves the calculation methodology to quantify the 
greenhouse gas emission reductions. 
I.B.2. Standard percent reduction 
I.B.2.a. 
A covered building owner unable to achieve the site GHG-
intensity target in Table 1 may comply by achieving and maintaining 
a standard percent reduction in their covered building’s greenhouse 
gas intensity as compared to the covered building’s 2021, or first 
reporting year, benchmarked baseline greenhouse gas intensity by 
using the ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager Building Emissions 
Calculator and applying the applicable Colorado-specific emission 
factor for electricity to both the baseline emissions calculation and 
the target year emissions calculation and converting the results to 
greenhouse gas intensity values in kg CO2e/SF to determine the 
percent reduction achieved. Under this compliance pathway, the 
covered building must 
I.B.2.a.(i) 
In 2026, achieve and maintain a standard percent 
reduction of 13% in comparison to the covered building’s 
2021 benchmarked baseline that has been converted to a 
greenhouse gas intensity value. 
I.B.2.a.(ii) 
In 2030, achieve and maintain a standard percent 
reduction of 29% in comparison to the covered building’s 
2021 benchmarked baseline that has been converted to a 
greenhouse gas intensity value. 
I.B.2.a.(iii) 
Comply with the requirements of Sections I.B.1.b. or 
I.B.1.c., if applicable. 
I.B.2.a.(iv) 
Demonstrate that the covered building has met the 
applicable standard percent reduction using the ENERGY 
STAR Portfolio Manager Building Emissions Calculator as 
specified in Sections I.B.1.a.(i) through I.B.1.a.(iii).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
25 
 
Table 1 – Property Type Site EUI and GHG Intensity Targets 
Property Type 
2026-
2029 Site 
EUI 
(kBtu/SF) 
2030-
2050 Site 
EUI 
(kBtu/SF) 
2026-
2029 
GHG 
Intensity 
(kg 
CO2e/SF) 
2030-
2050 
GHG 
Intensity 
(kg 
CO2e/SF) 
Adult Education 
53.1 
42.6 
3.3 
1.9 
Ambulatory Surgical Center 
79.2 
63.5 
4.9 
2.8 
Aquarium 
98.3 
78.8 
6.1 
3.5 
Automobile Dealership 
55.8 
44.7 
3.5 
2.0 
Bank Branch 
83.0 
66.6 
5.1 
3.0 
Bar/Nightclub 
113.0 
90.6 
7.0 
4.0 
Barracks 
52.8 
44.9 
3.3 
2.0 
Bowling Alley 
114.5 
81.5 
7.1 
3.6 
Casino 
74.6 
56.2 
4.6 
2.5 
College/University 
74.1 
58.3 
4.6 
2.6 
Convenience Store with Gas 
Station 
205.9 
165.1 
12.8 
7.4 
Convenience Store without Gas 
Station 
237.5 
190.5 
14.7 
8.5 
Convention Center 
43.0 
34.5 
2.7 
1.5 
Courthouse 
66.8 
53.6 
4.1 
2.4 
Distribution Center 
38.5 
30.9 
2.4 
1.4 
Enclosed Mall 
59.5 
47.7 
3.7 
2.1 
Fast Food Restaurant 
406.1 
325.8 
25.2 
14.5 
Financial Office 
57.2 
46.9 
3.5 
2.1 
Fire Station 
59.5 
47.7 
3.7 
2.1

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
26 
Table 1 – Property Type Site EUI and GHG Intensity Targets 
Property Type 
2026-
2029 Site 
EUI 
(kBtu/SF) 
2030-
2050 Site 
EUI 
(kBtu/SF) 
2026-
2029 
GHG 
Intensity 
(kg 
CO2e/SF) 
2030-
2050 
GHG 
Intensity 
(kg 
CO2e/SF) 
Fitness Center/Health Club/Gym 
114.5 
81.5 
7.1 
3.6 
Food Sales 
202.6 
162.5 
12.6 
7.3 
Food Service 
244.3 
195.9 
15.2 
8.7 
Hospital (General Medical & 
Surgical) 
217.6 
172.0 
13.5 
7.7 
Hotel 
64.3 
54.3 
4.0 
2.4 
Ice/Curling Rink 
114.5 
81.5 
7.1 
3.6 
Indoor Arena 
74.6 
56.2 
4.6 
2.5 
K-12 School 
56.9 
49.1 
3.5 
2.2 
Laboratory 
200.7 
161.0 
12.5 
7.2 
Library 
69.0 
55.3 
4.3 
2.5 
Lifestyle Center 
59.8 
39.0 
3.7 
1.7 
Mailing Center/Post Office 
60.6 
48.6 
3.8 
2.2 
Medical Office 
76.7 
64.9 
4.8 
2.9 
Movie Theater 
74.6 
56.2 
4.6 
2.5 
Multifamily Housing 
50.6 
42.1 
3.1 
1.9 
Museum 
74.6 
56.2 
4.6 
2.5 
Non-Refrigerated Warehouse 
38.0 
27.5 
2.4 
1.2 
Office 
57.2 
46.9 
3.5 
2.1 
Other 
70.3 
55.0 
4.4 
2.5 
Other - Education 
53.1 
42.6 
3.3 
1.9

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
27 
Table 1 – Property Type Site EUI and GHG Intensity Targets 
Property Type 
2026-
2029 Site 
EUI 
(kBtu/SF) 
2030-
2050 Site 
EUI 
(kBtu/SF) 
2026-
2029 
GHG 
Intensity 
(kg 
CO2e/SF) 
2030-
2050 
GHG 
Intensity 
(kg 
CO2e/SF) 
Other - Entertainment/Public 
Assembly 
98.3 
78.8 
6.1 
3.5 
Other - Lodging/Residential 
66.9 
53.7 
4.2 
2.4 
Other - Mall 
78.7 
63.1 
4.9 
2.8 
Other - Public Services 
45.1 
36.2 
2.8 
1.6 
Other - Recreation 
114.5 
81.5 
7.1 
3.6 
Other - Restaurant/Bar 
253.2 
203.1 
15.7 
9.1 
Other - Services 
45.1 
36.2 
2.8 
1.6 
Other - Specialty Hospital 
217.6 
172.0 
13.5 
7.7 
Other - Stadium 
74.6 
56.2 
4.6 
2.5 
Other - Technology/Science 
70.3 
55.0 
4.4 
2.5 
Outpatient Rehabilitation/Physical 
Therapy 
79.2 
63.5 
4.9 
2.8 
Performing Arts 
74.6 
56.2 
4.6 
2.5 
Personal Services (Health/Beauty, 
Dry Cleaning, etc.) 
45.1 
36.2 
2.8 
1.6 
Police Station 
59.5 
47.7 
3.7 
2.1 
Pre-school/Daycare 
50.8 
40.7 
3.1 
1.8 
Prison/Incarceration 
108.3 
86.9 
6.7 
3.9 
Race Track 
74.6 
56.2 
4.6 
2.5 
Refrigerated Warehouse 
83.3 
66.8 
5.2 
3.0 
Repair Services (Vehicle, Shoe, 
Locksmith, etc.) 
45.1 
36.2 
2.8 
1.6

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
28 
Table 1 – Property Type Site EUI and GHG Intensity Targets 
Property Type 
2026-
2029 Site 
EUI 
(kBtu/SF) 
2030-
2050 Site 
EUI 
(kBtu/SF) 
2026-
2029 
GHG 
Intensity 
(kg 
CO2e/SF) 
2030-
2050 
GHG 
Intensity 
(kg 
CO2e/SF) 
Residence Hall/Dormitory 
52.8 
44.9 
3.3 
2.0 
Residential Care Facility 
68.0 
57.7 
4.2 
2.6 
Restaurant 
253.2 
203.1 
15.7 
9.1 
Retail Store 
57.3 
41.5 
3.6 
1.9 
Roller Rink 
114.5 
81.5 
7.1 
3.6 
Self-Storage Facility 
10.9 
7.7 
0.7 
0.3 
Senior Living Community 
68.0 
57.7 
4.2 
2.6 
Social/Meeting Hall 
43.0 
34.5 
2.7 
1.5 
Stadium (Closed) 
74.6 
56.2 
4.6 
2.5 
Stadium (Open) 
74.6 
56.2 
4.6 
2.5 
Strip Mall 
59.8 
39.0 
3.7 
1.7 
Supermarket/Grocery Store 
158.3 
140.0 
9.8 
6.2 
Swimming Pool 
114.5 
81.5 
7.1 
3.6 
Transportation Terminal/Station 
98.3 
78.8 
6.1 
3.5 
Urgent Care/Clinic/Other 
Outpatient 
76.7 
64.9 
4.8 
2.9 
Veterinary Office 
76.7 
64.9 
4.8 
2.9 
Vocational School 
53.1 
42.6 
3.3 
1.9 
Wholesale Club/Supercenter 
57.3 
41.5 
3.6 
1.9 
Worship Facility 
41.7 
38.4 
2.6 
1.7 
Zoo 
98.3 
78.8 
6.1 
3.5

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
29 
I.C. 
Upon a complete submission of the information described in Section 
I.C.3., the CEO will assign data centers a power usage effectiveness 
(PUE) target based on 
I.C.1. The data center’s total facility energy usage, including all data 
center hardware, power delivery components, cooling systems, and 
lighting systems; 
I.C.2. Information technology (IT) equipment energy usage for the data 
center, including the energy used to power the storage and 
networking equipment and control equipment such as monitors and 
workstations; and 
I.C.3. An energy audit of the data center conducted by a qualified energy 
auditor demonstrating feasible options to reduce the data center’s 
PUE including, but not limited to, improving cooling systems, 
replacing inefficient hardware, using energy efficient lighting, 
optimizing redundant power supplies, using virtualization 
techniques (e.g., virtual servers), and installing battery storage 
instead of emergency generators for short term power outages. 
I.C.3.a. 
The energy audit may be created using the U.S. 
Department of Energy’s Audit Template Tool or a similar 
CEO-approved program equivalent to an ASHRAE Level 2 
energy audit and must include a report describing the results 
and recommendations of the audit. 
I.C.3.b. 
Energy auditors must have an in-depth knowledge of 
data center operations and energy efficiency measures and 
may be certified by the Association of Energy Engineers 
(AEE), ASHRAE, the Energy Management Association, the 
Building Performance Institute, or similar CEO-approved 
certifying entity. 
I.C.3.c. 
Energy auditors must certify that the results of the 
energy audit are accurate and complete. 
I.C.4. To request a building specific target, the owner of the covered 
building must submit the information in Section I.C.3. to the CEO on 
a CEO-approved form by December 31, 2025, for the 2026 target 
and December 31, 2029, for the 2030 target. 
I.D. 
Mixed use buildings, marijuana cultivation facilities, and covered buildings 
with installed electric vehicle (EV) charging stations that are not able to be 
sub-metered will default to the standard percent reduction compliance 
pathway in Part C, Sections I.A.3. or I.B.2. If these buildings do not 
choose to comply with the standard percent reduction compliance

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
30 
pathway in Part C, Sections I.A.3. or I.B.2., they may request an 
individualized target. 
I.D.1. Mixed use buildings will be assigned an individualized blended 
target based on building specific criteria including, but not limited to, 
the gross floor area for each property type for that building; total 
energy consumption; sub-metered energy consumption; and data 
center or server closet size, if applicable. 
I.D.2. Covered buildings with installed electric vehicle (EV) charging 
stations that are not able to be sub-metered will be assigned an 
individualized target based on the energy usage of the covered 
building excluding the installed EV charging station(s) energy 
usage. 
I.D.3. Marijuana cultivation facilities will be assigned a target based on 
the facility’s total gross floor area and energy usage, including 
climate control, lighting, and irrigation systems. 
I.D.4. To request an individualized target, the owner of the covered 
building must submit the following to the CEO on a CEO-approved 
form by December 31, 2025, for the 2026 target and December 31, 
2029, for the 2030 target. 
I.D.4.a. 
The covered building’s 2021 and each subsequent 
year of benchmarking data. New covered buildings for which 
a 2021 baseline does not exist must provide the 
benchmarking data submitted for the first full calendar year 
of building data. 
I.D.4.b. 
Mixed use buildings must submit documentation of 
the gross floor area for each property type for that building; 
total energy consumption; sub-metered energy consumption; 
data center or server closet size, if applicable; and other 
criteria listed on the CEO-approved form. 
I.D.4.c. 
Covered buildings with EV charging stations that are 
not sub-metered must submit documentation of the specific 
energy usage of the EV charging stations. 
I.D.4.d. 
Marijuana cultivation facilities must submit 
documentation of the facility’s total gross floor area and 
energy usage, including climate control, lighting, and 
irrigation systems; and other criteria listed on the CEO-
approved form. 
I.E. 
Owners of covered buildings that seek to challenge an individualized 
target assigned by the CEO pursuant to Sections I.C. or I.D. must apply

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
31 
for a target adjustment pursuant to Sections II.B. and II.C. Data centers 
applying for a building specific target adjustment need not perform a 
second energy audit as required in Part C, Section II.C. 
II. 
Compliance pathway adjustments 
II.A. 
Adjusted Timeline 
Covered building owners may request an adjustment to the timeline to achieve 
the 2026 and/or 2030 building performance standards pursuant to Part C, 
Section I. The request must be submitted on a CEO approved form. To apply for 
a timeline adjustment a covered building owner must 
II.A.1. Submit an application to the CEO requesting an adjusted timeline, 
including 
II.A.1.a. 
The specific adjusted timeline needed. 
II.A.1.b. 
Documentation of the need for the adjusted timeline. 
II.A.1.c. 
The covered building owner’s plan to achieve the 
performance targets within the adjusted timeline. 
II.A.1.d. 
An inventory of the natural gas equipment in the 
building including the age of the equipment and the energy 
savings associated with electrification of the equipment, if 
applicable. 
II.A.1.e. 
Purchase orders for necessary equipment 
demonstrating purchase and delivery dates, and any 
additional documentation demonstrating supply chain delays 
specific to that equipment, if applicable. 
II.A.1.f. 
Documentation demonstrating collaboration with the 
building’s utility(ies) related to updating the electrical 
distribution infrastructure, if applicable. 
II.A.2. Covered building owners applying for an adjusted timeline must 
submit their application to the CEO by December 31, 2025, for the 
2026 target and by December 31, 2029, for the 2030 target. 
II.A.3. Covered building owners that may apply for this type of adjustment 
include, but are not limited to 
II.A.3.a. 
Affordable housing and under-resourced buildings. 
II.A.3.a.(i) 
Owners of covered buildings that do not fall 
into one of the categories in the definition of under-

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
32 
resourced buildings in Part A, Section III.WW. may 
petition the CEO for status as an under-resourced 
building by submitting on a CEO-approved form a 
description of the building; an explanation of why the 
building should be considered under-resourced; and 
evidence that the building has less access to 
resources than other similarly situated buildings in the 
relevant utility service territory. 
II.A.3.b. 
Buildings undergoing a major renovation that does not 
align with the target dates but that will achieve the site EUI 
or greenhouse gas target. 
II.A.3.c. 
Building owners experiencing significant supply chain 
or workforce delays. 
II.A.3.d. 
Building owners who can demonstrate a plan to 
replace building heating and cooling systems at end of life 
where the system end of life occurs after the compliance 
period. 
II.A.3.e. 
Building owners experiencing financial hardship, as 
defined in Part A, Section III.X. 
II.A.3.f. 
Inherent and unique characteristics of the physical 
building that prohibit them from reaching the timeline. 
II.A.3.g. 
Buildings that require updates to the electrical 
distribution infrastructure that cannot be timely completed to 
meet the performance standard deadline. 
II.A.3.h. 
Building owners that purchase a covered building 
within the 12 month period before a required building 
performance standard deadline. Building performance 
standard deadline is December 31, 2026, for the 2026 target 
and December 31, 2030, for the 2030 target. 
II.B. 
Standard Performance Target Adjustments 
Covered building owners who have selected the EUI or GHG compliance 
pathway may request a standard adjusted 2026 and/or 2030 performance target. 
The request must be submitted on a CEO approved form. 
II.B.1. As part of the standard performance target adjustment, buildings 
with multiple property types will be assigned a standard blended 
target based on the percentage of gross floor area assigned to 
each property type for that building. The CEO will also consider

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
33 
other standard adjustments as suggested by EPA, Department of 
Energy, or other nationally recognized entities. 
II.B.2. The request must be submitted on a CEO approved form. To apply 
for an adjusted target a covered building owner must submit 
II.B.2.a. 
Each year of the benchmarking data from 2021 up to 
the request year (e.g., for a January 1, 2025, request submit 
2021-2024 data). New covered buildings for which a 2021 
baseline does not exist must provide each year of 
benchmarking data starting with and following the year the 
owner receives a certificate of occupancy for the building. 
The covered building must also submit a third-party data 
verification checklist for each year of benchmarking data. 
II.B.2.b. 
A list of property types at the covered building and the 
associated square footage for each property type. 
II.B.2.c. 
Third-party data verification. 
II.B.3. The CEO may request other information from the covered building 
owner in order to generate a standard performance adjustment 
target. 
II.C. 
Adjusted Performance Target for Under-Resourced Buildings 
Owners of under-resourced buildings may request an adjusted 2026 and/or 2030 
performance target. The request must be submitted on a CEO approved form. To 
apply for an adjusted target the owner of an under-resourced building must 
II.C.1. Submit an application to the CEO requesting an adjusted target, 
including 
II.C.1.a. 
Each year of the benchmarking data from 2021 up to 
the request year (e.g., for a January 1, 2025, request submit 
2021-2024 data). New covered buildings for which a 2021 
baseline does not exist must provide each year of 
benchmarking data starting with and following the year the 
owner receives a certificate of occupancy for the building. 
The covered building must also submit a third-party data 
verification checklist for each year of benchmarking data. 
II.C.1.b. 
Narrative detailing the building characteristics (e.g., 
year of construction, state or federal historical status, etc.) or 
functional variations that qualify for an adjustment.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
34 
II.C.1.c. 
An inventory of the natural gas equipment in the 
building including the age of the equipment and the 
electrification feasibility of the equipment. 
II.C.1.d. 
Documentation of operation and maintenance 
improvements including how the building owner will 
implement long-term payback measures in the building. 
II.C.1.e. 
Documentation demonstrating collaboration with the 
building’s utility or utilities to determine the feasibility of gas 
and electric beneficial electrification and/or gas or electric 
demand side management programs. 
II.C.2. Covered building owners applying for an adjusted target must 
submit their application to the CEO by December 31, 2025, for the 
2026 target and by December 31, 2029, for the 2030 target. 
II.C.3. Covered building owners that may apply for this type of adjustment 
include, but are not limited to 
II.C.3.a. 
Covered buildings with inherent and unique 
characteristics of the physical building that make the weather 
normalized site EUI target unachievable or cost prohibitive. 
II.C.3.b. 
Affordable housing and under-resourced buildings. 
II.C.3.b.(i) 
Owners of covered buildings that do not fall 
into one of the categories in the definition of under-
resourced buildings in Part A, Section III.WW. may 
petition the CEO for status as an under-resourced 
building by submitting on a CEO-approved form a 
description of the building; an explanation of why the 
building should be considered under-resourced; and 
evidence that the building has less access to 
resources than other similarly situated buildings in the 
relevant utility service territory. 
II.D. 
Owners of covered buildings applying for a compliance adjustment to a 
building’s target or timeline pursuant to Part C, Section II.A. must also 
submit to the CEO an energy audit for the building completed by an 
approved energy auditor. 
II.D.1. The building owner must submit an energy audit created using the 
U.S. Department of Energy’s Audit Template Tool or similar CEO-
approved program, equivalent to an ASHRAE Level 2 energy audit, 
and a report describing the results and recommendations of the 
audit.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
35 
II.D.2. The audit report must include the achievable weather-normalized 
site EUI for the building, based on the results and 
recommendations of the audit. 
II.D.3. Energy auditors must be certified by the Association of Energy 
Engineers (AEE), ASHRAE, the Energy Management Association, 
the Building Performance Institute, or similar CEO-approved 
certifying entity. 
II.D.4. Energy auditors must certify that the results of the energy audit are 
accurate and complete. 
II.D.5. The energy audit may be in the form of a strategic energy 
management plan for covered buildings that are part of a campus. 
II.E. 
In addition to target adjustment application materials submitted by an 
owner of a covered building, the CEO will also consider the 
appropriateness of a standard adjustment as suggested by EPA. 
II.F. 
Owners of covered buildings that will demonstrate compliance with the 
building performance standards through a compliance pathway other than 
the selected compliance pathway, as specified pursuant to Part B, Section 
I.A., may request an adjustment from the CEO. The covered building 
owner must provide the materials required in Part C, Sections II.B. and 
II.C. and demonstrate that the building owner has achieved compliance 
through the other compliance pathway. The request must be submitted to 
the CEO on a CEO-approved form by January 31, 2027 (for the 2026 
target) and January 31, 2031 (for the 2030 target). 
II.G. 
If a covered building owner’s adjustment request is denied by the CEO, 
the building owner may request the CEO executive director (or their 
designee) to review the determination. The building owner must request 
the review within ninety (90) days of the initial denial. The executive 
director (or their designee) will make a recommendation on the adjustment 
request within 120 days of the review request. 
III. 
A covered building owner that fails to meet the building performance standards 
through one of the compliance pathways in Section I. in the timeframe(s) 
specified or under an approved adjustment pursuant to Section II. must meet the 
building performance standards as expeditiously as practicable. 
III.A. Failure to timely comply with a performance standard under Part C will 
constitute a violation of these rules. 
III.B. Until compliance is achieved, on the last day of every month after a 
covered building owner fails to meet the building performance standards 
by the date(s) specified in Section I., the building owner must either 
demonstrate compliance with the building performance standards or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
36 
demonstrate progress towards meeting the building performance 
standards. 
III.B.1. Initial reporting under Section III.A. must include documentation 
demonstrating the building owner’s retrofit plan including an outline 
of proposed improvements, the timeframe in which improvements 
will be made, and how the improvements will result in the building 
reaching the applicable target of the chosen compliance pathway. 
The retrofit plan must include at least two contractor project cost 
estimates. 
III.B.2. Subsequent monthly reports must include a description of any work 
completed under the retrofit plan and documentation that plan 
milestones have been met. 
III.B.3. This demonstration must be provided to the CEO until the covered 
building owner demonstrates compliance with the building 
performance standards or until a new building performance 
standard becomes applicable, at which time the covered building 
owner must meet the new building performance standard. 
III.C. Each month that a covered building owner fails to demonstrate 
compliance with the building performance standards or demonstrate 
progress towards meeting the building performance standards, as set forth 
in Section III.A., constitutes an independent violation and may subject the 
covered building owner to additional civil penalties under 25-7-122, C.R.S. 
(2022), beyond the penalties specified in Part E. and, in addition to civil 
penalties, a requirement to perform one or more projects to mitigate 
violations related to excess emissions of greenhouse gas emissions. 
Covered building owners in violation of this Section III. may also be 
subject to injunctive relief under § 25-7-121, C.R.S. (2022).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
37 
PART D 
Recordkeeping 
I. 
Covered building owners must maintain the following records for a period of 
seven (7) years and make records available to the Division or CEO upon request. 
I.A. 
ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager account data in Part B, Section I. 
I.B. 
Evidence of requests the covered building owner has made to obtain 
tenant energy use data from any separately metered spaces in Part B, 
Section II. 
I.C. 
Any additional information pertaining to the building’s energy data and 
space use entered into ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager in Part B, 
Section I. 
I.D. 
Demonstration of compliance with the chosen compliance pathway(s) in 
Part C, Section I. for a covered building, including results from the 
ENERGY STAR Portfolio Manager Building Emissions Calculator in 
spreadsheet (.xlsx) files downloaded from the calculator, if applicable. 
I.E. 
Any waiver or adjustment submissions in regard to compliance or non-
compliance in Part B, Section II. and Part C, Section II. 
I.F. 
Records of any upgrades made to comply with the building performance 
standards requirements (e.g., receipts, invoices). 
I.G. 
Any other information included in the building performance standards 
requirements. 
II. 
Change of ownership 
II.A. 
The owner of a covered building must disclose to a prospective buyer prior 
to the sale of the building the covered building’s compliance status, 
including compliance with performance targets; any approved waivers, 
exemptions, extensions, or adjustments; and any penalties assessed. 
II.B. 
The owner of a covered building must provide all records specified in Part 
D, Section I. to the new building owner upon closing.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
38 
PART E 
Penalties 
I. 
Beginning January 1, 2024, a covered building owner who does not submit a 
benchmarking report in accordance with Part B, Section I. or meet the building 
sale or lease requirements in 25-7-142(6), C.R.S. (2022), is subject to a civil 
penalty of up to $500 for a first violation and up to $2,000 for each subsequent 
violation. 
II. 
Beginning January 1, 2024, a covered building owner whose building fails to 
meet the building performance standards in Part C is subject to a civil penalty of 
up to $2,000 for a first violation and up to $5,000 for each subsequent violation. 
III. 
Public building owners are not subject to civil penalties under this Part E or under 
25-7-122. 
PART F 
Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose 
I. 
Adopted: August 17, 2023 
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the 
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act § 24-4-103, the Colorado 
Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act §§ 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, and the Air 
Quality Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules. 
Basis 
The Commission adopted a new Regulation Number 28, Building Benchmarking and 
Performance Standards, to satisfy the requirements the General Assembly in House Bill 
21-1286 (Concerning Measures to Improve Energy Efficiency) (HB 21-1286), set forth in 
§ 25-7-142, C.R.S., directing the Commission’s adoption of building benchmarking and 
performance standards for covered buildings by September 1, 2023. 
Specific Statutory Authority 
The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act § 25-7-142(7) authorizes the 
Commission to promulgate rules to implement the benchmarking program established in 
HB 21-1286. § 25-7-142(8)(c) directs the Commission to adopt rules to establish 
building performance standards on or before September 1, 2023, “that will achieve a 
reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of [7%] by 2026 as compared to 2021 levels” 
and “a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of [20%] by 2030 as compared to 2021 
levels,” as set forth in § 25-7-142(8). § 25-7-105(1)(e) authorizes the Commission to 
promulgate implementing rules and regulations to abate greenhouse gas (GHG) 
emissions consistent with the statewide GHG pollution reduction goals in § 25-7-
102(2)(g). In adopting GHG abatement strategies and implementing rules, the 
Commission is authorized to take into account other relevant laws and rules to enhance 
efficiency and cost-effectiveness and solicit input from other state agencies and 
stakeholders on the advantages of different statewide GHG pollution mitigation

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
39 
measures, see §§ 25-7-105(1)(e)(II) and (IV). Implementing rules may include 
regulatory strategies that incentivize development of renewable resources and 
“enhance cost-effectiveness, compliance flexibility, and transparency around 
compliance costs,” see § 25-7-105(1)(e)(V). Further, in promulgating such implementing 
rules, the Commission is to consider many factors, including, but not limited to, health, 
environmental, and air quality benefits and costs; the relative contribution of each 
source or source category to statewide GHG pollution; equitable distribution of the 
benefits of compliance; issues related to the beneficial use of electricity to reduce GHG 
emissions; and whether greater or more cost-effective emission reductions are available 
through program design, see § 25-7-105(1)(e)(VI). 
§ 25-7-109(1) authorizes the Commission to adopt and promulgate emission control 
regulations that require the use of effective practical air pollution controls for each type 
of facility, process, or activity which produces or might produce significant emissions of 
air pollutants. An “emission control regulation” may include “any regulation which by its 
terms is applicable to a specified type of facility, process, or activity for the purpose of 
controlling the extent, degree, or nature of pollution emitted from such type of facility, 
process, or activity. . . .”, see § 25-7-103(11). Emission control regulations may pertain 
to any chemical compound including GHG pollution, see § 25-7-109(2)(c). 
§§ 24-38.5-112(1) and 24-38.5-112(1)(a) require the Colorado Energy Office (CEO) to 
implement a building performance program and to use “county assessor records and 
other available sources of information” to administer the building performance program. 
§ 24-38.5-112(1)(a)(I)-(IV) requires CEO to create a database of covered buildings and 
of owners required to comply with the building performance program; track compliance 
with the building performance program; maintain a list of noncompliant owners; and 
provide the Division a list of noncompliant owners for the Division's enforcement of the 
building performance program pursuant to § 25-7-122(1)(i). The building benchmarking 
and performance standards rule was collaboratively drafted by the Division and CEO 
before it was brought before the Commission. CEO is responsible for the 
implementation and continuation of the building benchmarking and performance 
standards requirements while the Division is responsible for enforcement of the rule. 
Purpose 
The Commission established building benchmarking and building performance 
standards (BPS) as one means to track and reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
in the built environment from a 2021 baseline. Buildings constructed after 2021 that 
would be considered covered buildings under this regulation will also be required to 
meet the building benchmarking and performance standards. To demonstrate 
compliance with the BPS, the Commission adopted a flexible, compliance pathway 
based approach to reducing emissions through improvements in energy efficiency, high-
efficiency electrification of space heating and cooling and water heating, or a combined 
approach that may also include the installation of customer-owned retail distributed 
generation systems. In adopting the BPS, the Commission considered the 
recommendations of the Building Energy Performance Task Force (BPS Task Force) 
convened by the Colorado Energy Office (CEO), as directed by HB 21-1286. Pursuant

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
40 
to § 25-7-142(8)(c)(II), the Commission is, by rule, adopting performance standards that 
meet the requisite GHG emission reductions. 
Applicability 
New Buildings 
Buildings constructed after 2021 that would be considered covered buildings under this 
regulation will also be required to meet the building benchmarking and performance 
standards. Buildings constructed after 2021 must start collecting benchmarking data 
once the owner has received a certificate of occupancy for the building. A new building 
must comply with its applicable building performance target by the specified target date. 
Public Buildings 
Public buildings become subject to the building performance standards of this regulation 
only after undertaking a construction or renovation project that has an estimated cost of 
at least $500,000 and impacts at least twenty-five percent of the covered building’s 
square footage. A construction or renovation project that will trigger compliance with the 
building performance standards either (1) impacts a square footage of twenty-five 
percent or greater or (2) impacts an area of that size or greater through changes to 
heating and cooling systems, insulative measures, changes to the building envelope, or 
other such measures. For purposes of this rule, the “project” shall be the aggregation of 
any construction or renovation work on a public building that is part of the same bidding 
process, happens contemporaneously or sequentially within an eighteen month period, 
or that would otherwise be reasonably considered to be part of or substantially related 
to the same project. 
Public buildings constructed after 2021 that would be considered covered buildings 
under this regulation will also be required to meet the building benchmarking and 
performance standards. Public buildings constructed after 2021 must start collecting 
benchmarking data once the owner has received a certificate of occupancy for the 
building. Public buildings constructed after 2021 must comply with the building 
performance standards requirements if the construction has an estimated cost of at 
least $500,000. 
In situations where a public entity shares its building space with other non-public 
entities, the owner of the covered building, whether the public entity or not, is still 
required to report benchmarking data. In multi-owner situations, the party responsible 
for compliance will be the owner listed in the tax assessor’s records for that building and 
must comply with building performance standards if the covered building has a shared, 
centralized heating and/or cooling system. If a public entity leases a covered building or 
a portion of a covered building, the building owner is responsible for compliance with the 
benchmarking and building performance standards. Whether the public entity may also 
have some responsibility related to compliance will depend on the lease arrangement 
between the public entity and the building owner, as with any other owner-tenant 
situation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
41 
Condominiums and Townhomes 
§ 25-7-142(2)(j)(II)(C) states that “a single-family home, duplex, or triplex” is not a 
covered building under the building benchmarking and performance standards. 
Properties such as townhomes and condominiums are similar to single-family homes, 
duplexes, or triplexes in that the condominium or townhome units within the envelope of 
a building are individually owned units and may have their own heating and cooling 
systems. However, condominium or townhome buildings differ from a single-family 
home in both the energy usage and, thus, the potential opportunity to reduce energy 
use and associated building greenhouse gas emissions when the condominiums or 
townhomes share a centralized heating and/or cooling system. Therefore, the 
Commission determined that condominiums or townhomes that share a building or 
together comprise a building, are covered under the building benchmarking and 
performance standards if they have shared centralized heating and cooling systems for 
water or air conditioning throughout the units of the building. The party responsible for 
compliance for covered buildings composed of condominiums or townhomes, or any 
covered building with split ownership, will be the owner listed in the tax assessor’s 
records for that building whether it be a person, group, organization, or business. Where 
tax records do not clearly identify a single owner, the person holding themselves out to 
be the owner or responsible party may be identified through other means. 
Federal Buildings 
The Commission has determined that federal buildings are subject to and must comply 
with the Benchmarking and Reporting Requirements in Part B of this rule. 
The Commission recognizes that there is currently a Federal Building Performance 
Standard that establishes 2030 and 2045 goals for reducing emissions from federal 
buildings. As long as the Federal Building Performance Standard is in effect, federal 
buildings that would be covered by the Colorado Building Performance should instead 
comply with the requirements of the Federal Performance Standard. However, the 
Commission reserves the right to regulate federal buildings in the event that the Federal 
Building Performance Standard is modified or eliminated.” 
Benchmarking 
In Part B, the Commission adopted requirements for owners of covered buildings to 
submit energy-use benchmarking data. Using benchmarking data to create baseline 
energy usage allows building owners to track and measure their energy usage in 
relation to prior years and progress towards performance standard targets established 
in Part C. 
Annual Reporting 
§ 25-7-142(3) requires owners of covered buildings to annually submit, starting June 1, 
2024, and by June 1 of each year thereafter, benchmarking data for the previous 
calendar year to CEO. Buildings constructed after 2021 will be required to submit 
benchmarking reports starting with the first full year of data after the building has started

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
42 
operating. This data must include all of the applicable building data required by the rule 
and data quality checks to ensure that the data is correct and accurate. Building owners 
must also include any change in building information in the annual reporting such as 
changes to property type or building ownership. Certain building owners may be allowed 
to benchmark their buildings as a campus if they meet the requirements for campus 
reporting in Part B. Covered building owners must include in the 2027 benchmarking 
data report a demonstration that the covered building met the 2026 building 
performance standard requirements as provided in Part C; the same applies to 2031 
reporting with respect to the 2030 building performance standard requirements. 
Currently, there is no option in the ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager for a building to 
select “marijuana cultivation facility” in the building type field when reporting 
benchmarking data. CEO has never exempted marijuana cultivation facilities from any 
reporting requirements. Denver has recently made changes to its program and directed 
marijuana cultivation facilities to select “manufacturing” in ENERGY STAR® Portfolio 
Manager when reporting benchmarking data. Consistent with Denver’s program, 
Regulation Number 28 specifies that marijuana cultivation facilities must report their 
property type as “manufacturing” in ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager and that 
marijuana cultivation facilities that are covered buildings will be assigned an 
individualized target for purposes of complying with the building performance standards 
should the facility owner choose not to comply with the standard percent reduction 
compliance pathway. To avoid confusion, the definition of “manufacturing purpose” 
explicitly excludes these facilities for the purpose of the exemption from the definition of 
“covered building” in Section III.O.2. 
Waivers, Extensions, and Exemptions 
§ 25-7-142(5) allows covered building owners to seek a waiver or time extension from 
the annual benchmarking requirement for a given year if the owner submits waiver 
documentation to, and receives approval from, CEO. Building owners eligible for the 
2021 benchmarking waiver will automatically be assigned an energy-use intensity (EUI) 
target. A covered building owner may also request a benchmarking time extension from 
CEO if the owner submits documentation to CEO demonstrating that, despite the 
owner's good-faith efforts, the owner was unable to complete the benchmarking report 
for the relevant year. This allows the building owner more time to aggregate their 
building’s benchmarking data so they can submit at a later date. Covered building 
owners must submit a waiver application to CEO any time after June 1 of the calendar 
year to be benchmarked and on or before May 1 of the reporting year, unless CEO 
adopts an alternate timeline for submitting a waiver application. 
The Commission also adopted provisions for building owners to seek an exemption 
from CEO if the building does not meet the definition in § 25-7-142(2)(j) of a covered 
building (i.e., storage facilities, stand-alone parking garages, or airplane hangars that 
lack heating and cooling; buildings with more than half of the gross floor area used for 
manufacturing, industrial, or agricultural purposes). The adoption of these exemption 
provisions recognize that building uses may change over time and that building owners

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
43 
may want documented clarity of whether or not the building is subject to the 
benchmarking requirements. 
Building Performance Standards (BPS) 
Building performance standards create energy performance targets, such as a specific 
level of energy usage or reduction for buildings to meet after a set amount of time. 
These standards help drive energy efficiency improvements and reduce energy use and 
resulting GHG emissions over the course of implementation. 
BPS Task Force Recommendations 
Pursuant to § 25-7-142(8)(a), CEO convened the BPS Task Force to develop 
recommendations for the Commission to consider when adopting rules for building 
performance. CEO timely delivered the BPS Task Force recommendations to the 
Governor’s Office, General Assembly, and Colorado Department of Public Health and 
Environment by October 1, 2022, consistent with § 25-7-142(8). The recommendations 
made by the BPS Task Force, and included in the report, were approved by two-thirds 
of the BPS Task Force members. These recommendations are available on the 
Colorado Energy Office’s (CEO) Building Performance Standards website under the 
Task Force Recommendations. 
In developing the recommendations, the BPS Task Force was comprised of members 
with experience from a broad range of industries and building owners; examined 
building types of unique energy needs including aviation facilities, nursing homes, and 
hospitals; and considered how the performance standards and the greenhouse gas 
reductions would not include savings from statewide decarbonization of electricity or 
natural gas utility grids but include savings from utilities' or local governments' energy 
efficiency programs. 
The BPS Task Force also made recommendations related to workforce availability and 
development related to building energy performance; financial and nonfinancial costs 
and benefits of upgraded building energy performance; availability of programs, 
technical assistance, and incentives to support building owners, utilities, and local 
governments; opportunities to improve commercial building energy use in Colorado; 
how regulations and agency support could help ensure building owners avoid fines 
through compliance with performance standards. 
Rule Design and GHG Emissions Reductions 
Enacting a building performance regulation to reduce GHG emissions ensures that 
large building owners participate in the reduction of emissions from the built 
environment. Building energy usage and GHG emissions are correlative, which allows 
for building performance standards to influence consumer decisions and therefore 
induce reductions of statewide building emissions. The Commission adopted building 
performance standards that will require covered buildings to implement measures that, 
taken together, are expected to achieve GHG emission reductions from this segment of 
covered buildings in the building sector of 7% by 2026 and 20% by 2030, as compared

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
44 
to 2021 levels. Based on benchmarking data reporting 2021 data in 2022, covered 
buildings subject to these rules were responsible for approximately 8,878,000 metric 
tons of carbon dioxide equivalent emissions resulting from the energy consumption of 
those buildings. 
Pursuant to § 25-7-142(8)(c)(II), the Commission adopted performance standards to 
meet the requisite GHG emission reductions. In calculating the statewide GHG emission 
reductions anticipated to result from these regulations, the changes in emissions are not 
separate from those realized by the utilities as part of the statewide GHG inventory. This 
overlap in emissions impacts is recognized in § 25-7-142(8)(a)(IV), which directs that 
“[i]n calculating greenhouse gas reductions pursuant to § 25-7-42(8), the calculation 
must not include savings from statewide decarbonization of electricity or natural gas 
utility grids, but may include savings from utilities' or local governments' energy 
efficiency programs.” Thus, while these rules are anticipated to drive GHG emission 
reductions to meet the targets, it is important to note that these reductions will not be 
independently reflected in the statewide GHG inventory but rather as one means of 
reducing emissions attributable to energy consumption by driving down demand and 
consumption of carbon-intense energy sources. It is also important to note that the 
greenhouse gas targets from § 25-7-142(8)(a)(II)(A) and § 25-7-142(8)(a)(II)(B) must be 
adjusted to account for the addition of future building stock. Factoring the increase of 
new building stock into the greenhouse gas emissions targets means that the initial 
targets would need to be increased from 7% by 2026 and 20% by 2030 to 9.6% by 2026 
and 23% by 2030. 
Accordingly, the compliance pathways provided for in Part C are designed to provide 
owners of covered buildings flexibility in compliance based on the unique characteristics 
of each individual building while also ensuring that overall compliance will accomplish 
the GHG emissions reduction targets in § 25-7-142(8)(a)(II)(A) and § 25-7-
142(8)(a)(II)(B). The building performance standard requirements adopted by the 
Commission allow for different metrics to be measured against a 2021 baseline so that 
progress can be tracked and compared to the GHG emission reduction targets. Owners 
of covered buildings must meet and maintain compliance with the 2026 targets each 
year from 2026 through 2029 until the covered buildings must meet and maintain the 
2030 targets. Owners of covered buildings must meet and maintain compliance with the 
2030 targets each year from 2030 on until future targets are established for beyond 
2030. 
Compliance Pathways 
In Part C, Sections I.A. and I.B., the Commission adopted two compliance pathways for 
covered building owners to comply with performance standards: energy efficiency and 
greenhouse gas reductions. Improving energy efficiency is the preferred compliance 
pathway. This compliance pathway requires building owners to implement energy 
efficient changes or upgrades to their buildings to reduce the building’s EUI to meet the 
building’s assigned weather normalized site EUI target. Improving site EUI reduces 
GHG emissions by reducing demand for gas and electric service and, therefore, 
reducing the emissions from the generation or consumption of that energy. In Part C,

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
45 
Table 1, the Commission established weather normalized site EUI by property type that 
covered buildings are to achieve by 2026 as an interim performance standard, pursuant 
to § 25-7-142(8)(a)(II). The 2026 weather normalized site EUI targets in Table 1 were 
determined to represent a 7% reduction in GHG emissions across covered buildings as 
compared to the baseline, after accounting for growth of new construction, established 
through the 2021 benchmarking data collected and analyzed by CEO. The 2030 
weather normalized site EUI targets in Table 1 were determined to represent a 20% 
reduction in GHG emissions across covered buildings as compared to the baseline, 
after accounting for growth, established through the 2021 benchmarking data collected 
and analyzed by CEO. 
In Part C, Section I.A.3., the Commission adopted a standard percent reduction 
compliance pathway option to the energy efficiency compliance pathway that allows 
covered buildings to meet and maintain fixed EUI reductions by the 2026 and 2030 
compliance periods. Buildings complying with the energy efficiency standard percent 
reduction compliance pathway must reduce their EUI by 13% in 2026 and by 29% by 
2030 from their 2021, or first reporting year, benchmarked baseline weather-normalized 
EUI. 
For existing buildings that did not submit a 2021 benchmarking report, the building will 
be subject to the weather normalized EUI target for the property type as identified in tax 
records that was established as the average of the data submitted by the similar 
building types. In calculating site EUI targets, where sufficient data for a particular 
building type was lacking in the 2021 benchmarking baseline, other national and local 
building energy data sets, such as ENERGY STAR and the Commercial Buildings 
Energy Consumption Survey (CBECS), were used to determine the EUI target for that 
property type. Under this compliance pathway, buildings constructed after 2021 must 
also comply with their property type EUI target. If a new building is unable to provide 
benchmarking data, the building will be assigned a EUI target for the property type as 
identified in tax records based on similar property types that benchmarked their data or 
from the Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Survey (CBECS). 
The demonstration of compliance with the energy efficiency compliance pathway will be 
completed through the ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager tool that will provide a 
building owner with a covered building’s weather-normalized site EUI. 
Under Part C, Section I.B., a covered building unable to achieve the required GHG 
emission reductions through the compliance pathway of energy efficiency may achieve 
the required GHG emission reductions and demonstrate compliance individually or 
through a combination of energy efficiency, electrification, and/or the use of customer-
owned retail distributed generation systems to offset grid-based electricity. 
Electrification requires covered building owners to replace or avoid fossil fuel-based 
space heating, water heating, or cooking equipment by using high efficiency electric 
equipment. High efficiency electric equipment means using electrical equipment with 
less required energy to perform the same function by eliminating energy waste. For 
example, high-efficiency electric equipment may be certified according to ENERGY 
STAR, meet Federal Energy Management Program (FEMP) efficiency requirements,

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
46 
meet the current version of American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-
Conditioning Engineers’ (ASHRAE) Standard 90.1 or IECC 2021 International Energy 
Conservation Code (IECC), or meet newer such requirements. Electrification also 
reduces emissions by shifting fossil fuel-based building end-uses to the electrical grid, 
which is a lower-emitting energy supply source that will achieve deeper emissions 
reduction as the grid is progressively supplied by greater amounts of renewable energy. 
The Commission encourages the building owner to coordinate and communicate with 
their utility provider if the building is planning on implementing full or significant 
electrification of the building. 
In Part C, Section I.B.2., the Commission adopted a standard percent reduction 
compliance pathway option to the GHG intensity reduction compliance pathway that 
allows covered buildings to meet and maintain fixed GHG intensity reductions by the 
2026 and 2030 compliance periods. Buildings complying with the GHG intensity 
standard percent reduction compliance pathway must reduce their GHG intensity by 
13% in 2026 and by 29% by 2030 from their 2021, or first reporting year, benchmarked 
baseline that has been converted to a GHG intensity value. Building owner’s choosing 
to use the GHG intensity standard percent reduction compliance pathway will calculate 
their building’s baseline year emissions and their 2026 and/or 2030 emissions using the 
ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager’s Building Emissions Calculator and apply a 
Colorado-specific emission factor for electricity use in the calculator for the baseline 
year and years 2023 to 2026 and a separate Colorado-specific emission factor for the 
baseline year and years 2027 and beyond, and compare the difference between the 
baseline year calculation and the target year calculation to determine the percent 
reduction. Both of these emission factors reflect the statewide decarbonization of the 
electricity utility grid and ensures that the building’s 2021 baseline and 2026 and/or 
2030 reductions reflect the same status in grid decarbonization. 
Customer-owned retail distributed generation allows a building to develop renewable 
resources to reduce use of grid-based energy and therefore reduce some portion of the 
building’s emissions; however, the use of renewable resources may only be used as a 
compliance mechanism after the covered building owner has exhausted other options. 
A covered building owner using distributed generation must demonstrate ownership or 
long-term control of the resource for covered building owners that choose the GHG 
intensity compliance pathway. The following forms of retail distributed generation 
recognized under 40-2-124(1)(a)(VIII) are eligible for compliance after demonstrating in 
an energy audit that a building owner has maximized the economic use of energy 
efficiency and electrification and exhausted cost-effective compliance measures for the 
covered building. 
• On-site renewable energy. 
• Off-site renewable energy that is located on non-contiguous property 
owned or leased by the covered building owner consistent with the off-site 
net metering program authorized by 40-2-124(1)(e)(I)(C).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
47 
• A community solar garden subscription consistent with 40-2-127(2), so 
long as the covered building owner has a subscription term of at least five 
years. A covered building owner must maintain the subscription in order to 
maintain compliance. 
• On-site aggregated net metering distributed generation installations 
recognized under 40-2-124(1)(j), including master metered net metering 
installations and individually metered multi-unit net metering installations. 
Customer-owned retail distributed generation systems, retail distributed generation, and 
energy procured through a power purchase agreement may be counted toward 
compliance if the covered building owner retains the renewable energy credits (RECs) 
associated with the project, or if the RECs associated with the project are retired on the 
covered building owner’s behalf for no more than the amount of electricity produced by 
the customer-owned retail distributed generation system or retail distributed generation, 
or procured through a power purchase agreement that is consumed by the building. 
Legacy projects where RECs were transferred to the utility as a term of the project to 
decrease upfront costs may also be used for compliance if the covered building owner 
procures and retires RECs from another renewable energy resource located within 
Colorado that do not exceed the amount of energy produced by the covered building 
owner’s legacy system and consumed by the covered building. 
The Commission recognized the need for additional flexibility for under-resourced 
buildings and allowed the owners of under-resourced buildings to use utility subscription 
services as a compliance measure after the owner has exhausted cost-effective energy 
efficiency and electrification measures as demonstrated in an energy audit. Under-
resourced building owners are the only covered building owners that may use utility 
subscription services as a compliance measure within the GHG intensity compliance 
pathway in this regulatory program. 
Other forms of renewable energy may be considered in the compliance pathway in 
consultation with CEO. For example, using wastewater thermal energy recovery 
systems may result in a reduced energy usage for the building that would be reflected in 
the building’s benchmarking data and GHG emissions but not as a REC. Similarly, a 
demand response or demand flexibility program may be considered as a means to 
reduce a covered building’s overall EUI, so long as there is adequate information to 
demonstrate the reduction in GHG emissions. The building benchmarking and 
performance standards overall goal is to lower a building’s greenhouse gas emissions 
and other forms of renewable generation or recovery can allow a building to do that by 
reducing reliance on other forms of emissions-generating sources for a building even if 
the renewable generation or recovery is not directly accounted for in the benchmarking 
tool. CEO will work with the Division and stakeholders when considering other programs 
and emerging technologies that can be used to reduce the EUI and/or greenhouse gas 
emissions of buildings in the future. 
In order to demonstrate compliance with the GHG emissions reduction compliance 
pathway, building owners must use the ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager’s Building

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
48 
Emissions Calculator and report the results for a covered building from the calculator. 
The reporting must be accomplished by downloading the results from the calculator in a 
spreadsheet (.xlsx) file that is submitted to CEO. If utilizing electrification to demonstrate 
compliance through this compliance pathway, the applicable 2023 through 2026 or 2027 
and beyond Colorado-specific emission factor for electricity must be used and will be 
specified in the calculator. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) operates 
both ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager and the Building Emissions Calculator, which 
are currently separate tools, but these tools are able to work together. However, EPA is 
planning to integrate the functionality of the Building Emissions Calculator directly into 
ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager at which point calculations of a covered building’s 
GHG emissions for demonstrating compliance with the GHG emissions reduction 
compliance pathway may be completed using the calculator functionality in ENERGY 
STAR® Portfolio Manager and its associated reporting function. 
In Part C, Table 1, the Commission established greenhouse gas emission targets by 
property type for this compliance pathway that covered buildings must achieve by 2026 
and 2030, pursuant to § 25-7-142(8)(c)(II). The 2026 greenhouse gas emission targets 
in Table 1 were determined to represent a 7% reduction in GHG emissions as 
compared to the baseline, accounting for growth, established through the 2021 
benchmarking data collected and analyzed by CEO. The 2030 greenhouse gas 
emission targets in Table 1 were determined to represent a 20% reduction in GHG 
emissions as compared to the baseline, accounting for growth, established through the 
2021 benchmarking data collected and analyzed by CEO. 
In Part C, Sections I.C. and I.D., the Commission adopted processes for the 
establishment of individual targets for certain categories of covered buildings, 
specifically mixed use buildings as defined in Part A, Section III.DD., data centers, 
buildings with installed electric vehicle (EV) charging stations that are not able to be 
sub-metered, and marijuana cultivation facilities. At the time of rule adoption, the 
Commission did not have data available to establish property type targets for these 
buildings in Table 1 that would enable compliance with energy efficiency of greenhouse 
gas intensity reduction pathways. Mixed use buildings may identify a primary property 
type in ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager where one property type accounts for more 
than 50% of the building’s gross floor area. However, due to the variety of potential 
energy needs of the different property types represented in the building, CEO will assign 
an individualized target to every mixed use building as defined in Part A, Section III.DD. 
that does not use the standard percent reduction compliance pathway. The 
individualized target will be based on the percentage of gross floor area assigned to 
each property type in the building and other factors detailed in Part C, Section I.D. CEO 
will use each building’s ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager benchmarking report to 
track compliance with these individualized targets. 
Data centers will be assigned a power usage effectiveness (PUE) target, due to the 
unique energy needs of such buildings. CEO will only assign stand-alone data centers a 
PUE target, as outlined in Part C, Section I.C. Mixed use buildings that include a data 
center will be assigned an individualized target pursuant to Part C, Section I.D. 
Buildings with EV charging stations that are not able to be sub-metered will be assigned

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
49 
a target representative of the building’s energy use minus the EV charging station 
energy use. EPA is planning to add functionality to ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager 
for building owners to exclude the energy use of EV charging stations, which would 
allow both a recalculation of the building’s 2021 baseline and future reporting to exclude 
EV charging station energy use via reporting rather than through the individualized 
target process. Electricity used for EV charging, regardless of whether it is sub-metered, 
is intended to be excluded from energy use by covered buildings under this program. 
Lastly, as discussed above, marijuana cultivation facilities will select the property type of 
manufacturing in ENERGY STAR® Portfolio Manager. However, because a 
manufacturing property type target may not be appropriate for such facilities, CEO will 
assign an individualized target at the facility owners’ request for each marijuana 
cultivation facility based on the facility’s gross floor area and energy usage. As with 
mixed use buildings, data centers, marijuana cultivation facilities, and covered buildings 
with EV charging are also not limited from complying the compliance pathways in Part 
C, Sections I.A. or I.B. 
The BPS Task Force recommendations suggested consideration of the possibility of 
demand response/flexibility as an additional compliance pathway to help achieve the 
GHG emission reductions because the technologies shift the building’s energy demand 
to non-peak times. Grid-interactive efficient buildings are energy efficient buildings that 
use smart technologies, batteries, and on-site distributed energy resources to provide 
demand flexibility while co-optimizing for energy cost, grid services, and occupant 
needs and preferences in a continuous and integrated way. At the time these rules were 
adopted, there was insufficient infrastructure and no standardized industry methodology 
for measuring a building’s demand response/flexibility capabilities to support demand 
response/flexibility as a compliance pathway. However, the Commission recognizes the 
value in demand response/flexibility integration in buildings to better control building 
energy use and encourages the continued investigation into potentially crediting 
covered buildings for the use of these programs in the future. 
Compliance Adjustments 
Under Part C, Section II., when a covered building cannot achieve compliance with the 
building performance standards through the compliance pathways, the Commission 
adopted a process by which the covered building owner may request timeline and/or 
performance target adjustments. Section II. provides examples of circumstances under 
which a covered building owner may apply for a compliance adjustment. The following 
provides some demonstrative context for those requirements. 
• “Cost prohibitive” refers to the steps that a building owner would need to 
take to demonstrate the cost of compliance is higher than the benefit. 
If the equipment has a resale/salvage value, the cost of that equipment is the upfront 
cost minus the salvage value. If the buyer has obtained incentives (utility, local, state, or 
federal) for buying the equipment, then the cost of the equipment is further reduced by 
the amount of the incentive received. The cost of installing the equipment and the cost

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
50 
of its upkeep during its useful life are then added to that cost figure to determine the 
overall cost of the equipment. 
The benefits of installing the equipment include reduced energy use and reduced 
emissions. The dollar amount of that energy savings is determined by multiplying the 
amount of energy saved by the price of energy of the applicable fuel as forecasted by 
the U.S. Energy Information Administration for the target year of compliance plus 
anticipated demand response savings. 
The social cost of greenhouse gases are the most recent assessment of the social cost 
for those greenhouse gases for which the federal government has determined the cost. 
However, it cannot be below the figure set in 2016 using a two and one-half percent 
discount rate as established by the federal interagency working group on the social cost 
of carbon. The dollar value of emission reduction is determined by multiplying the 
amount of emission reduction in metric ton of carbon dioxide equivalent by the social 
cost of greenhouse gases. The total benefit associated with installing equipment is, 
thus, determined by adding the dollar amounts of energy savings and of emission 
reduction using the social cost of greenhouse gases. 
Whereas some of the costs and benefits are obtained in the year the equipment is 
installed, the rest occur over the useful life span of that equipment. Because 
benefits/costs that occur in the future are not valued the same way as benefits/costs 
that occur in the year of investment, those figures have to be discounted so that their 
present value equivalents can be determined. If the equipment has a two-year useful 
life, any benefit/cost that is incurred in the second year is discounted using the following 
formula: 
Present Value = Future Value 
    (1+r)2 
In calculating present value, “r” is the discount rate (e.g., when using a 2.5% discount 
rate, use 0.025) and “2” is used in this example because the benefit/cost is occurring in 
the second year. This calculation provides the second year’s benefits/costs in the 
present year’s terms. Adding the first year’s value and the present value version of the 
benefit/cost that occurred in the second year provides the equipment’s benefit/cost over 
its useful lifetime of 2 years. For benefits/costs that are incurred/obtained in the third, 
fourth, and other years in the equipment’s useful life, use 3, and 4, and others as 
applicable. Applying this procedure to each benefit and cost item results in the total net 
present value of cost and benefits associated with that equipment. If the total present 
value of the benefit is higher than the present value of cost, then this equipment is not 
cost prohibitive. If the present value of the cost is higher than the present value of 
benefit, then the equipment is cost prohibitive. 
• “Inherent and unique characteristics” refer to qualities specific to an 
individual building that limits the building from complying with the building 
performance standards (e.g., age, design, distinct features, physical

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
51 
characteristics). These traits are not generalized between building types, 
are unique to the applicable building, and must be approved by CEO 
before receiving a compliance adjustment. 
• “Significant variations in operations from a standard building in that 
building type category” refers to a building that belongs to a certain 
building type category that may not have the same building function, 
design, or construction as other buildings in the same category. 
• “Under-resourced building” refers to a building with less access to 
resources, including revenues, funding, grants, or gifts that can help with 
building operations or to comply with the requirements of this rule, than 
other buildings within the same building type in the same utility service 
territory. 
In addition, a covered building utilizing a novel alternative emissions reduction 
technology, such as carbon capture, could qualify under the compliance adjustment 
provisions as its operations would have a significant variation from other buildings 
through use of such a technology. Part C, Section II. provides an avenue for 
consideration of other alternative reduction technologies such as carbon capture 
through the adjusted performance target provisions. Specifically, Section II.B.3.b. allows 
“covered buildings with significant variations in operations from a standard building in 
that building type category” to apply for an adjusted target. 
Buildings seeking a compliance adjustment under Part C, Section II., must have an 
energy audit performed on the building to demonstrate why the building was unable to 
reach compliance. The energy audit must follow the requirements in the United States 
Department of Energy’s Building Energy Audit Template, ASHRAE’s standard 211-2018 
or more current level 2 audit, or an energy audit of similar requirements approved by 
CEO. All energy audits submitted for compliance adjustments must be performed by an 
accredited third-party auditor. Examples of acceptable energy auditor certifications are 
Certified Energy Auditor (Association of Energy Engineers), Certified Energy Manager 
(Association of Energy Engineers), Building Energy Assessment Professional 
(ASHRAE), Energy Management Professional (Energy Management Association), 
Multifamily Building Analyst (Building Performance Institute), or other energy auditor 
accreditations or certification recognized or deemed equivalent by the United States 
Department of Energy. The EUI target adjustment request must also include an 
inventory of all existing air and water heating and cooling equipment and an inventory of 
all required equipment needed to meet the building’s assigned EUI or emission target. 
In approving adjustments, CEO may consider standard target adjustments based on the 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) suggested methods in addition to the other 
factors outlined in the target adjustment process in Part C, Sections II.B. and II.C. 
Certain covered buildings in Denver receive steam from the Denver District Steam 
System for a variety of purposes, including space heating, use in steam radiators, and 
heating domestic hot water. At the time of this rulemaking, the Denver District Steam 
System was subject to a proceeding before the Colorado Public Utilities Commission

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
52 
(Proceeding Number 22A-0382ST) regarding the operations of the system through 2030 
and consideration of alternate technologies to replace the system. Acknowledging this 
uncertainty and its potential impact on large capital investments, the Commission 
recognizes that covered buildings on the Denver District Steam System may qualify to 
apply for either a timeline or performance target adjustment. However, any such 
adjustment would need to be substantiated in accordance with Part C, Section II. and 
would be at the discretion of CEO. 
Penalties 
Pursuant to § 25-7-122(1), the Commission adopted civil penalty provisions related to a 
covered building owner’s failure to comply with the benchmarking and building 
performance standards requirements. § 25-7-122(1) specifies values of $2,000 for a first 
violation of the performance standards and $5,000 for a second violation. In addition to 
these provisions, the Commission adopted additional reporting and compliance 
demonstration requirements for building owners that fail to comply with the building 
performance standards, clarifying that building owners must demonstrate progress until 
coming into compliance and that failure to do so may result in a finding of additional 
violations. The Commission expects that the potential for these additional penalty 
assessments will further incentivize covered building owner compliance. 
Utility Data Reporting 
§ 25-7-142(4) contains statutory requirements incumbent upon qualifying utilities 
concerning the collection and provision of energy-use data for its customers, including 
covered building owners and tenants. Both the definition of “qualifying utility” at § 25-7-
142(2)(u) and the duties created under § 25-7-142(4) are explicit and clear. These 
provisions are enforceable as a provision of part 1 of the Act by the Commission and 
Division under § 25-7-115. Furthermore, qualifying utilities providing electric service are 
subject to extensive data gathering and provision requirements in the Colorado Public 
Utilities Commission's (PUC) Rules Regulating Electric Utilities at 4 CCR 723-3, 
Sections 3025 - 3035 concerning “Customer Data Access and Privacy.” Under these 
PUC rules, customers may request the release of this information through the Consent 
to Disclose Utility Customer Data form. Given these preexisting statutory and regulatory 
duties governing this conduct, the Commission did not adopt any additional rules in this 
regard. 
Sale and Lease of Covered Buildings 
§ 25-7-142(6) contains statutory requirements dependent on the sale or lease of 
buildings covered under the building performance standards. If a covered building or a 
portion of a covered building is for sale or lease, the covered building owner must 
provide an electronic copy of the building’s reported benchmarking data to all 
prospective buyers or lessees, any brokers as defined in § 12-10-201(6) C.R.S., any 
person making an inquiry about the property, or any major commercial real estate listing 
services on which the property is listed. The benchmarking data should be of the 
building’s previous calendar year or from the most recent twelve-month period of

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
53 
continuous occupancy. If a covered building changes ownership, the former owner must 
make available to the new owner the energy-use data, utility customer consent 
documentation, and any other information about the property that is necessary to 
benchmark the covered building. The former owner must transfer to the new owner both 
the record representing the covered building’s information in the benchmarking tool and 
the request to a qualified utility for aggregated data. The new owner may request and 
receive from a qualifying utility the aggregated data necessary to fulfill benchmarking 
reporting requirements. Given these preexisting statutory and regulatory duties 
governing this conduct, the Commission did not adopt any additional rules in this 
regard. 
Future Year Standards 
§ 25-7-142(8)(a)(II)(C) granted the BPS Task Force the opportunity to provide 
recommendations for “advising, soliciting public input on, and making recommendations 
to the commission on performance standards for 2030 to 2050” that will align with the 
State’s 2050 GHG reduction targets. The Commission understands that CEO will 
continue to evaluate submitted benchmarking data as well as compliance 
demonstrations to evaluate implementation and performance under this regulation and 
encourages CEO to consider convening a new task force to evaluate potential future 
revisions to these standards as well as to evaluate additional building performance 
standards beyond 2030. 
The CEO will report to the Commission on the implementation of Regulation Number 28 
on a regular basis. The report may include information on benchmarking reporting 
statistics, benchmarking waivers and exemptions, the number of requests for 
adjustments received and the number of adjustments granted, and other information 
regarding program implementation. The Division will also report to the Commission on 
the implementation of Regulation Number 28 on a regular basis to provide updates on 
progress towards meeting the 2026 and 2030 targets, penalties, and any other 
information regarding program implementation. 
The Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment will undertake future 
rulemakings as needed after evaluating implementation of the rule and its effectiveness 
in achieving statutory greenhouse gas emission reduction targets, and make needed 
improvements, including in 2027 or early 2028 as informed by the compliance data for 
the 2026 targets. 
Finally, the Commission recognizes that Regulation Number 28 is a new program and 
will apply to many entities that have not previously been subject to rules promulgated by 
the Commission. Throughout this rule, language has been developed to ensure that this 
rule provides reasonable flexibilities and is cost-effective for owners of covered 
buildings, including approving, where appropriate, adjustments to performance targets 
and timelines which may extend beyond 2030, while simultaneously ensuring that the 
state will meet the targets established in § 25-7- 142(8)(c).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
54 
Federal vs. State-Only Conditions (if applicable) 
The revisions to Regulation Number 28 do not exceed or differ from the requirements of 
the federal act or rules, therefore, 25-7-110.5(5)(a) does not apply. 
Findings of Fact 
(I) 
These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and 
sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all 
information submitted by interested parties. 
(II) 
Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a 
demonstrable reduction of greenhouse gasses related to building performance. 
(III) 
Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about 
reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to 
implement and comply with the rules. 
(IV) 
The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired 
results, provide the regulated community flexibility, and achieve the necessary 
reduction in air pollution. 
(V) 
The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-
effective manner. 
II. 
Adopted: September 17-19, 2025 
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the 
requirements of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act 24-4-103, the Colorado Air 
Pollution Prevention and Control Act 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, and the Air Quality 
Control Commission’s (Commission) Procedural Rules. 
Basis 
In 2023, the Commission adopted a new Regulation Number 28, Building Benchmarking 
and Performance Standards, to satisfy the requirements the General Assembly in 
House Bill 21-1286 (Concerning Measures to Improve Energy Efficiency) (HB 21-1286), 
set forth in Section 25-7-142, C.R.S. In this rulemaking, the Commission adopted 
technical corrections. 
Specific Statutory Authority 
The Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and Control Act Section 25-7-142(7) authorizes 
the Commission to promulgate rules to implement the benchmarking program 
established in HB 21-1286. Section 25-7-142(8)(c) directs the Commission to adopt 
rules to establish building performance standards on or before September 1, 2023, “that 
will achieve a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of [7%] by 2026 as compared to

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
55 
2021 levels” and “a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of [20%] by 2030 as 
compared to 2021 levels,” as set forth in Section 25-7-142(8). Section 25-7-105(1)(e) 
authorizes the Commission to promulgate implementing rules and regulations to abate 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions consistent with the statewide GHG pollution 
reduction goals in Section 25-7-102(2)(g). Section 25-7-109(1) authorizes the 
Commission to adopt and promulgate emission control regulations that require the use 
of effective practical air pollution controls for each type of facility, process, or activity 
which produces or might produce significant emissions of air pollutants. Section 25-7-
106(6) authorizes the Commission to require owners or operators of air pollution 
sources to monitor, record, and report information. 
Purpose 
The Commission established building benchmarking and building performance 
standards (BPS) as one means to track and reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
in the built environment. As part of the rulemaking in 2023, the Commission expanded 
the provisions related to utility subscription services to all covered buildings in Part C, 
Section I.B.1., instead of just under-resourced buildings. However, the Commission’s 
decision on this point was not reflected in the final regulatory language or the adopted 
Statement of Basis and Purpose at the conclusion of the rulemaking hearing and as 
submitted to the Secretary of State for publication. Therefore, the Commission now 
adopted a technical correction to align the language in Section I.B.1.d. with the 
language in Section I.B.1., as the Commission intended, and clarifies that the 
Commission’s recognition of the need for additional flexibility as related to utility 
subscription services as a compliance measure applies to all covered buildings and not 
just under-resources buildings. 
The Commission revised the definition of covered building to exempt agricultural 
buildings, to align with SB 25-039. 
The Commission also revised the date under which the annual fee is required to 
November 1 of each year, starting in 2026. HB 21-1286, in Section 24-38.5-112, C.R.S., 
specifies that each covered building owner must pay an annual fee of $100 per covered 
building. However, HB 21-1286 did not specify the deadline for collecting this fee. Prior 
to this revision, the fee was due by June 1. The Commission revised the date to 
November 1 to align with pending legislation in HB 25-1269. 
Further, these revisions include any typographical, grammatical, and formatting errors 
throughout the regulation. 
Federal vs. State-Only Conditions (if applicable) 
The revisions to Regulation Number 28 do not exceed or differ from the requirements of 
the federal act or rules, therefore, 25-7-110.5(5)(a) does not apply.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
56 
Findings of Fact 
(I) 
These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and 
sound scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all 
information submitted by interested parties. 
(II) 
Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a 
demonstrable reduction of greenhouse gasses related to building performance. 
(III) 
Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about 
reductions in risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to 
implement and comply with the rules. 
(IV) 
The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired 
results, provide the regulated community flexibility, and achieve the necessary 
reduction in air pollution. 
(V) 
The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-
effective manner.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-32 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
57 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 10/15/2023. 
Rules Part A, III O.2, III O.4, IV A, Part C, I B.1.d, I B.1.d(i), 1 B.1.d(ii), II F, Part F II eff. 
11/14/2025.
