---
id: "5_CCR_1002-22"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "5 CCR 1002-22"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=8775&fileName=5%20CCR%201002-22&type=pdf"
---

#### 5_CCR_1002-22. 5 CCR 1002-22

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
Water Quality Control Commission 
REGULATION NO. 22 - SITE LOCATION AND DESIGN REGULATIONS FOR DOMESTIC 
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS 
5 CCR 1002-22 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
22.1 
SCOPE AND PURPOSE 
(1) 
These regulations are promulgated in implementation of the Colorado Water Quality Control Act 
(CWQCA) and, in particular, sections 25-8-202(1)(e) 25-8-202(1)(i), and 25-8-702 C.R.S., as 
amended and are designed to be in conformity with the CWQCA. 
(2) 
These regulations apply to construction of domestic wastewater treatment works, including 
wastewater treatment plants, individual sewage disposal systems, lift (pumping) stations, and 
certain interceptor sewers with a design capacity to receive greater than 2,000 gallons per day of 
domestic wastewater, as well as certain facilities that produce reclaimed domestic wastewater. 
(3) 
Nothing in these regulations shall be construed to limit a local government's authority to impose 
land-use or zoning requirements or other limitations on the activities subject to these regulations. 
22.2 
DEFINITIONS 
(1) 
“AMENDMENT” means a change to an existing site location approval or a change to an existing 
domestic wastewater treatment works constructed before November 1967 and not expanded 
since that date, meeting the requirements of section 22.10, and for which reduced information 
requirements and a streamlined review process apply. 
(2) 
“APPLICATION” means the combined materials necessary to fulfill the requirements of section 
22.6, 22.7, 22.8, 22.9, 22.10, 22.11, or 22.12 as appropriate. The combined materials may 
include the appropriate application forms, an engineering report, review agency 
recommendations and certifications. 
(3) 
“APPROVAL” means the final action (decision) of the Water Quality Control Division approving a 
site location application, certification, or design. Except for in-kind replacements and 
demonstration projects, a site location approval shall specify the location and, in general, the type 
of domestic wastewater treatment works being approved and its design capacity. For in-kind 
replacements, a site location approval specifies the components that meet the definition of in-kind 
replacement. This action may take the form of an approval, acknowledgement of certification (for 
interceptors), or acknowledgement of in-kind replacement. In any case, the approval may include 
conditions of approval. 
(4) 
“COMMISSION” means the Water Quality Control Commission created by section 25-8-201, 
C.R.S. 
 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
2 
(5) 
“CONSTRUCTION” means entering into a contract for the erection or physical placement of 
materials, equipment, piping, earthwork, or buildings which are to be part of a domestic 
wastewater treatment works. Should an entity elect to build the improvements with in-house work 
forces, instead of contracted work forces, then construction shall be considered to begin when the 
entity initiates any action towards the erection or physical placement of materials, equipment, 
piping, earthwork, or buildings which are to be part of a domestic wastewater treatment works. 
When an entity enters into a contract for a non-traditional construction delivery approach, such as 
but not limited to, design-build or construction manager at risk, the portion of the contract 
covering preparation of the site application and/or design, including obtaining Division review and 
decision of the site location and design applications, is not “construction” and initiation of such 
activities by the entity is in conformance with this regulation. 
(6) 
“COMPREHENSIVE PLAN” means the Master Plan adopted by a City, Town or County or an 
amendment to such plan. However, in the event that comprehensive plans overlap the subject 
property, then the plan developed by the local government having land use jurisdiction over the 
site shall be given primary consideration. 
(7) 
“DEMONSTRATION PROJECT” means testing of an individual process, technology, or chemical, 
or combination(s) of processes, technologies, and/or chemicals at an existing facility that has 
previously obtained site location and design approval. Demonstration projects occur at a scale, 
location in the process, or configuration that may have the potential to affect water quality or 
treatment capabilities. Sufficient testing and data are needed to support an alternative technology 
application. Where that data does not already exist, is not applicable to, or cannot be correlated 
to accommodate Colorado-specific conditions, such as extreme temperatures and high-altitude 
facility installations, Colorado-specific testing and data may be needed to support an alternative 
technology application and a demonstration project may be required. Demonstration projects 
require site location approval prior to commencement of construction, operation, and testing. Any 
Division determination regarding whether a project is a demonstration project is separate from a 
Division determination of permit compliance and whether a permit modification is required. 
(8) 
“DESIGN CAPACITY” means a domestic wastewater treatment works’ capability to receive a 
specific domestic wastewater flow and/or pollutant load while meeting the water quality planning 
target(s), as applicable. 
The term ‘design capacity’ applies to domestic wastewater treatment plants, onsite wastewater 
treatment systems, lift stations, and interceptors as follows: 
(a) 
Domestic wastewater treatment plant 
For a treatment plant, the design capacity is comprised of two components, the hydraulic 
capacity and the organic loading capacity. The hydraulic capacity shall be given in 
gallons per day (gpd) or million gallons per day (MGD). The organic loading capacity 
shall be given in pounds of 5-day biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) per day or 
carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand (cBOD) per day. The design capacity for a 
treatment plant shall generally be expressed as a maximum monthly average.  When 
equalization is present, the hydraulic component of design capacity shall be determined 
at a point prior to any flow equalization. 
(b) 
Onsite Wastewater Treatment System 
For domestic wastewater treatment works also considered in accordance with the 
Regulation 43 - On-site Wastewater Treatment Systems, the proposed design capacity 
shall generally be expressed as the maximum month average daily flow, at full 
occupancy.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
3 
(c) 
Lift station 
For a lift station, the design capacity is expressed as the firm pump capacity (i.e., 
capacity with largest unit out of service). 
(d) 
Interceptor 
For an interceptor, the design capacity is expressed as the peak instantaneous hydraulic 
flow the interceptor is capable of conveying based on the limiting design conditions at a 
flow depth over internal diameter ratio of 0.8. 
For all domestic wastewater treatment works, the design capacity may be expressed 
using another capacity measure where deemed appropriate by the Division. 
(9) 
“DIVISION” means the Water Quality Control Division, Colorado Department of Public Health and 
Environment. 
(10) 
“DOMESTIC WASTEWATER” means a combination of liquid wastes (sewage) which may include 
chemicals, household wastes, human excreta, animal or vegetable matter in suspension or 
solution, or other solids in suspension or solution which are discharged from a dwelling, building 
or other structure. 
(11) 
“DOMESTIC WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT” (TREATMENT PLANT) means an 
arrangement of devices and structures for treating, neutralizing, stabilizing, or disposing of 
domestic wastewater, industrial wastes, and biosolids. A domestic wastewater treatment plant is 
one type (or element) of domestic wastewater treatment works. The term “domestic wastewater 
treatment plant” does not include industrial wastewater treatment plants or complexes whose 
primary function is the treatment of industrial wastes, notwithstanding the fact that human wastes 
generated incidentally to the industrial process are treated therein. 
(12) 
“DOMESTIC WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS” (TREATMENT WORKS) means a system 
or facility for treating, neutralizing, stabilizing, or disposing of domestic wastewater which system 
or facility has a designed capacity to receive more than two thousand gallons of domestic 
wastewater per day. The term “domestic wastewater treatment works” also includes 
appurtenances to such system or facility such as outfall sewers and pumping stations and to 
equipment related to such appurtenances. The term “domestic wastewater treatment works” does 
not include industrial wastewater treatment plants or complexes whose primary function is the 
treatment of industrial wastes, notwithstanding the fact that human wastes generated incidentally 
to the industrial process are treated therein. 
(13) 
“EFFLUENT LIMITATION” means any restriction or prohibition established under the “Colorado 
Discharge Permit System Regulations”, Regulation 61 (5 CCR 1002-61). 
(14) 
“EXPANSION” means design capacity increases of a domestic wastewater treatment works. An 
expansion involves an increase to the hydraulic or organic components of design capacity of the 
domestic wastewater treatment works. In- kind replacement of facilities or equipment does not 
constitute an expansion. To be available for use by the owner, the capacity provided by an 
expansion must be authorized in a discharge permit. 
(15) 
“GPD” (gallons per day) or “MGD” (million gallons per day) are the units used to estimate or 
measure total domestic wastewater flow to a domestic wastewater treatment works.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
4 
(16) 
“IN-KIND REPLACEMENT” means replacement of any process treatment component or hydraulic 
conveyance component at an existing, approved domestic wastewater treatment works with a 
similar (i.e., not exactly alike or identical) component as part of normal or emergency 
replacements to assure continued compliance with applicable site location, design, and permit 
conditions, including effluent limitations. Replacement or technology upgrades that do not change 
the original intent of the equipment or structure being renovated, do not impact the design 
capacity, and do not require the application of alternate design criteria (e.g., change from 
chemical to ultraviolet light disinfection) qualify as in-kind replacement. In-kind replacement does 
not include operations and maintenance activities or identical replacements of any process 
treatment component or hydraulic conveyance component at an existing approved domestic 
wastewater treatment works; these activities may proceed without Division notification or site 
location approval. 
(17) 
“INTERCEPTOR SEWER” means a sewer line with a nominal pipe diameter equal to or greater 
than 24 inches that conveys sewage by gravity, if it performs one or more of the following 
functions as its primary purpose: 
(a) 
It intercepts domestic wastewater from a final point in a collection system and conveys 
such waste directly to a treatment plant; 
(b) 
It is intended to replace an existing treatment plant or lift station and transports the 
collected domestic wastewater to an adjoining collection system or interceptor sewer for 
treatment; 
(c) 
It transports the domestic wastes from one or more municipal collection systems to a 
regional treatment plant; 
(d) 
It is intended to intercept an existing major discharge of raw or inadequately treated 
wastewater for transport directly to another interceptor sewer, lift station, or treatment 
plant. 
A sewer with a minor number of building or lateral connections may be considered an 
interceptor sewer if it performs one or more of the functions listed above. Interceptor 
sewers are appurtenances to domestic wastewater treatment works. 
(18) 
“LIFT STATION” (PUMPING STATION) means a wastewater pumping station that pumps 
wastewater to a different point when the continuance of the gravity sewer at reasonable slopes 
would involve excessive depths of bury or that pumps wastewater from areas too low to drain into 
available sewers. This definition does not include wastewater pumping stations that are designed 
to receive 2,000 gpd or less of domestic wastewater. Lift stations are appurtenances to domestic 
wastewater treatment works. Force mains are equipment of lift stations. 
(19) 
“MANAGEMENT AGENCY” means a local, regional, or state agency or political subdivision 
designated by the governor, in consultation with the designated planning agency and in 
accordance with section 208 of the Federal Clean Water Act and State Law, that is responsible 
for implementing all or part of an approved regional water quality management plan. 
(20) 
“MUNICIPALITY” means any regional commission, county, metropolitan district offering sanitation 
service, sanitation district, water and sanitation district, water conservancy district, metropolitan 
sewage disposal district, service authority, city and county, city, town, Indian tribe or authorized 
Indian tribal organization or any two or more of them which are acting jointly in connection with a 
domestic wastewater treatment works.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
5 
(21) 
“ON-SITE WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM (OWTS)” means an absorption system of any 
size or flow, or a system or facility for treating, neutralizing, stabilizing, or dispersing sewage 
generated in the vicinity, which system is not part of or connected to a sewage treatment works. 
An OWTS with a design capacity greater than two thousand gallons per day is a domestic 
wastewater treatment works and subject to this regulation (Regulation #22). 
(22) 
“OUTFALL SEWER” means a sewer that receives treated wastewater from a treatment plant and 
carries it to a point of final discharge. This definition does not include reclaimed domestic 
wastewater distribution and transmission system piping. Outfall sewers are appurtenances to 
domestic wastewater treatment works. 
(23) 
“PERSON” means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, state, or political 
subdivision thereof, federal agency, state agency, municipality, commission or interstate body. 
(24) 
“PILOT PROJECT” means testing of an individual process, technology, or chemical, or 
combination(s) of processes, technologies, and/or chemicals at an existing facility that has 
previously obtained site location and design approval. Pilot projects occur at a scale, 
configuration, and location in the process that does not qualify as a demonstration project. 
Examples of pilot projects include short-term equipment testing that does not impact the liquid 
stream directly or through recycle flows and process optimization to achieve more efficient 
treatment, reduction in pollutants discharged, or improved water quality and that occurs within the 
existing treatment configuration authorized under a previous site application. Pilot projects do not 
relieve permittees from complying with discharge permit requirements. The operation and 
configuration of pilot projects must be capable of being returned to approved site location and 
design conditions immediately and without capital construction. Pilot projects do not require site 
location approval prior to commencement. Any Division determination regarding whether a project 
is a pilot project is separate from a Division determination of permit compliance and whether a 
permit modification is required. 
(25) 
“208 DESIGNATED PLANNING AGENCY” means an entity designated by the Governor, in 
accordance with section 208 of the Federal Clean Water Act and State Law, to produce and 
update a regional water quality management plan. 
(26) 
“PRELIMINARY EFFLUENT LIMITATIONS (PELs)” means effluent limitations developed by the 
Division, or developed by the applicant for review and approval by the Division when the Division 
has not met its 180-day goal for certain kinds of PELs, that will serve as the effluent quality 
guidance for the alternative treatment facilities identified in the site location application and the 
selected alternative for the final design of the domestic wastewater treatment plant. PELs are 
determined for the proposed design flow and are set at a level such that the proposed treatment 
facility will not cause an exceedance of applicable water quality standards for those state waters 
to which the proposed discharge would be made. 
(27) 
“RECLAIMED DOMESTIC WASTEWATER” means wastewater that has received treatment that 
enables the wastewater to meet the requirements, prohibitions, standards, and concentration 
limitations adopted by the Commission for subsequent reuses other than drinking. 
(28) 
“REGIONAL WATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN” means a wastewater management and 
water quality plan produced in accordance with sections 208 and 303(e) of the federal Clean 
Water Act and state law and approved updates to that plan. An areawide water quality 
management plan identifies a system of treatment plants necessary to meet the anticipated 
municipal and industrial waste treatment needs of the designated area over a 20-year period. 
(29) 
“SEWAGE TREATMENT WORKS” means the same as “domestic wastewater treatment works” 
under section 25-8-103, C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
6 
(30) 
“SITE LOCATION” means the land or water area where any facility or activity subject to this 
regulation is physically located or conducted, including adjacent land used in connection with the 
facility or activity. 
(31) 
“STATE WATERS” means any and all surface and subsurface waters which are contained in or 
flow in or through this state, but does not include waters in sewage systems, waters in treatment 
works or disposal systems, waters in potable water distribution systems, and all water withdrawn 
for use until use and treatment have been completed. 
(32) 
“TREATMENT ENTITY” means a municipality or person responsible for treating the domestic 
wastewater. 
(33) 
“TREATMENT PROCESS MODIFICATION” means a physical construction change to an existing 
domestic wastewater treatment works that does not change the design capacity, but either 
replaces an existing treatment process with a different process or substantially alters the 
operating mode of the process. 
(34) 
“VAULT” means a watertight covered receptacle, which is designed to receive and store domestic 
wastewater either from a sewer or from a privy and is accessible for the periodic removal of its 
contents. If the vault is intended to serve a structure or structures that are projected to generate 
greater than two thousand gallons of domestic wastewater per day at full occupancy, the vault is 
a domestic wastewater treatment works. Vaults with a design capacity less than or equal to two 
thousand gallons per day are On-site Wastewater Treatment Systems subject to Regulation 43. 
(35) 
“WATER QUALITY PLANNING TARGET” means planning limitations issued by the Division. 
These targets may be derived from the following: preliminary effluent limitation documents, 
individual or general permits, reclaimed water notices of authorization, and/or water quality 
assessments. Water quality planning targets are to be used to guide the treatment needs for the 
alternatives to be considered for evaluation as well as the selected alternative that is proposed in 
the site location application. Water quality planning targets consider the proposed hydraulic 
capacity, discharge location(s), reclaimed use(s), technology based limits, applicable water 
quality standards, and water quality management plan (if any). 
22.3 
DECLARATION OF POLICY FOR THE SITE LOCATION DECISION PROCESS 
(1) 
Based on section 25-8-702(2) C.R.S., in evaluating the suitability of a proposed site location for a 
domestic wastewater treatment works, the Division shall: 
(a) 
Consider the local long-range comprehensive plans for the area as they affect water 
quality and any approved regional water quality management plan for the area; 
(b) 
Determine that the proposed domestic wastewater treatment works will be managed to 
minimize the potential adverse impact on water quality and in accordance with the  
applicable water quality planning targets developed in accordance with subsection 
22.6(1)(b)(iii); and 
(c) 
Encourage the consolidation of wastewater treatment works whenever feasible with 
consideration for such issues as water conservation, water rights utilization, stream flow, 
water quality, or economics. 
22.4 
PROCEDURES FOR THE SITE LOCATION DECISION PROCESS 
(1) 
In the interest of facilitating a more effective and timely review of individual applications, counties, 
other local governments and 208 designated planning and management agencies are 
encouraged to establish and implement a coordinated review and comment process.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
7 
(2) 
In the interest of facilitating a more effective and timely review of proposed new and expanded 
domestic wastewater treatment works, each planning agency may establish and implement a 
coordinated review and comment process to carry out the provisions of this regulation in 
coordination with its water quality planning responsibilities. Where a 208 planning agency wishes 
to establish such a coordinated process, the Division may enter into an agreement with the 208 
planning agency specifying the procedures for this coordinated process. The intent is to establish 
a single process 1) to meet these site location requirements and 2) to meet the requirements for 
amendments to the regional water quality management plan. The process should be designed so 
that a new or expanded domestic wastewater treatment works that is approved as a part of the 
regional water quality management plan may be concurrently deemed to also meet the 
requirements of these site location regulations at the time of its inclusion in the plan. Under such 
a coordinated process, the Division retains final authority for approval or denial of each project 
that is regulated under these site location regulations. 
(3) 
The Commission and Division (after review by the Commission) may adopt policies designed to 
aid in the interpretation and implementation of these regulations. The policies will be used in 
conjunction with the regulations to form the basis of Division actions with respect to applications 
for site location decisions. 
(4) 
The burden is on the applicant to supply the information necessary for the Division to make a 
decision, based on the requirements in these regulations and associated policies. 
(5) 
The Division will act expeditiously on all complete applications that have been submitted for 
review. For all site location applications, except in-kind replacements, the Division has a goal to 
complete its final review in a total of sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of the application and 
applicable fee payment. The Division may require that the applicant ask for review and comments 
from other agencies for applications under sections 22.6, 22.7, 22.8, 22.9, and 22.10; however, 
the Division will make the final decision regarding approval or denial of the site location 
application. Specifically for in-kind replacement site location applications, the Division has a goal 
to complete its final review in a total of thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of the application. 
In the event the work does not meet the definition of in-kind replacement, the Division shall notify 
the owner that the work does not meet the definition of in-kind replacement and that an 
application for amendment of an approved site location is required. 
(6) 
If the application is denied, the Division will specify which items were not satisfied by the 
application and what measures the applicant may take, if any, to satisfy those requirements. 
(7) 
Approval by the Division of a site location application shall not be deemed to be a determination 
that the proposed treatment works are or are not necessary, that the proposed site is or is not the 
best or only site upon which to locate such a treatment works, or that the location of a treatment 
works on the site is or is not a reasonable public use justifying condemnation of the site. Approval 
by the Division shall only be deemed to be a determination that the site application meets the 
requirements of this Regulation 22 (5 CCR 1002-22). 
(8) 
Approval of a site application by the Division or the Commission in no way negates the necessity 
for all applicants to obtain all required approvals from other federal, state, and local agencies.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
8 
(9) 
All site location approvals become effective on the date of approval and will expire if construction 
has not started on the date specified by the Division in its approval letter or by the Commission, if 
the matter is appealed. Unless otherwise specified by the Division, the expiration date will be 
eighteen months from the date of approval. In setting the expiration date, the Division will 
consider the implementation plan and schedule (including design and bidding timing) provided 
with the application and any recommendation for phasing as contained in the water quality 
management plan. In the event of an appeal of the Division's action, the period during which 
construction is required to begin will be stayed pending the outcome of the appeal before the 
Commission. If the Commission ruling upholds the Division's action, then the date of their ruling 
shall commence the approval period. Any project not commencing construction on or before the 
date of expiration must reapply or request a time extension. If there are no significant changes 
from the original application, an extension request can be accomplished by a letter request from 
the applicant. Once construction is initiated, construction shall proceed to completion as 
expeditiously as possible. 
(10) 
Notice of the decision by the Division shall be included in the next Water Quality Information 
Bulletin. 
(11) 
Written notification of the Division's decision shall be sent to the applicant and all persons who 
have shown interest via written communication. 
(12) 
Any person adversely affected or aggrieved by the Division's decision on a site application must 
appeal that decision to the Commission as a prerequisite to the right of judicial review pursuant to 
the State Administrative Procedures Act. The appeal shall be made in writing to the office of the 
Administrator and be postmarked no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the mailing of the 
bulletin notice of the Division action. Within ninety (90) days of the filing of the appeal the 
Commission shall commence a hearing to consider such appeals in accordance with the 
provisions of section 24-4-105, C.R.S. If appeal is made to the Commission, the decision shall be 
made considering the criteria specified in these regulations. 
(13) 
Emergencies: The applicant may request a fifteen (15) day review from local review agencies in 
place of longer review times specified within any section of this regulation that requires 
notification of local agencies in the event of an emergency. Accelerated review periods for 
projects directly associated with addressing emergencies are limited to projects related to federal 
and state declared emergencies or a qualifying onsite emergency, as determined by the Division, 
such as a catastrophic fire or explosion. Review agencies shall have fifteen (15) working days 
from receipt of the application to review and comment directly to the Division unless a brief (less 
than 15 working days) extension is requested in writing. The Division will not deem a lack of 
comments from such agencies within the specified comment period as a recommendation for 
denial during its consideration of the application. 
(14) 
At times, applicants find that a change impacting the design capacity is required following the 
issuance of a site location approval, but prior to completion of the design approval process or 
completion of construction of the domestic wastewater treatment works. The applicant must notify 
all local agencies per the initial site location application if the applicant requests the Division to 
modify a site location approval related to the design capacity. These review agencies shall have 
15 working days from receipt of the application to review and comment directly to the Division 
unless a brief (less than 15 working days) extension is requested in writing. The Division will not 
deem a lack of comments from such agencies within the specified comment period as a 
recommendation for denial during its consideration of the application.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
9 
22.5 
FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED FOR DIVISION OR COMMISSION DECISION MAKING ON 
SITE LOCATION APPLICATIONS 
(1) 
The Division shall review each site application and engineering report, and in making its 
determination as to whether or not to issue an approval of the site location application, shall 
consider and ensure the following: 
(a) 
Designation of the legally responsible person and the legal description of the site 
location; 
(b) 
That the receiving treatment works will not be overloaded when connecting new or 
expanded lift stations or interceptors subject to site application requirements of sections 
22.8, 22.9, and 22.10; 
(c) 
The existing domestic wastewater treatment works and feasibility (including the cost 
effectiveness, regional water quality management and local comprehensive plans, and 
legal, political and physical limitations), with consideration for such issues as water 
conservation, water rights utilization, stream flow, water quality, or economics) of treating 
wastes in an area-wide facility; 
(d) 
Relationship to and potential impact of proposed facility on any water supply intake. 
(e) 
Location of proposed project relative to flood plains or other natural hazard; That the 
proposed treatment works be so located that it is not unnecessarily endangered by 
natural hazards; 
(f) 
Foreseeable potential adverse impacts on public health, welfare, and safety including that 
the proposed treatment works can be operated and managed at the proposed site 
location to minimize such foreseeable potential adverse impacts as related to wastewater 
treatment and/or water quality; 
(g) 
Proper public notice and any public comment; 
(h) 
For treatment plants, the ability of the proposed treatment process(es) to meet the 
existing effluent limitations or applicable water quality planning targets; 
(i) 
Review and comment of all required local government agencies and 208 designated 
planning and management agencies (if interested) including recommendations for 
approval or denial and recommendations for any conditions that should be a part of the 
Division approval; 
(j) 
Long-range comprehensive planning for the area as it affects water quality; and 
(k) 
The regional water quality management plan for the area. The Division shall rely 
substantially upon such plan in deciding whether to grant site location approval where the 
plan is current and comprehensive with respect to its analysis of population growth and 
distribution as it relates to wastewater treatment. In those areas where regional water 
quality management planning has not been conducted, or where such planning is not 
current or comprehensive, the Division shall rely upon the factors (a) through (i) of this 
section and upon the information submitted in the application for site location approval as 
the primary determinants in making the site application decision. Where portions of a 
regional water quality management plan are adopted as regulation, pursuant to 25-8-
105(3)(a), they shall be binding on the Division action.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
10 
22.6 
APPLICATION PROCEDURES FOR CONSTRUCTION OF NEW DOMESTIC WASTEWATER 
TREATMENT PLANT 
(1) 
The site location application for any proposed new domestic wastewater treatment plant, except 
for interceptor sewers and lift stations as described below in sections 22.8, 22.9, and 22.10, shall 
be made to the Division on the proper form. Prior to submitting the form to the Division, the 
application must be submitted to the local authorities and the 208 designated planning and 
management agencies for review and comment in accordance with section 22.6(2). These 
application procedures also apply to proposals to move outfall sewers from the approved site 
location to another site. Changing the location of the discharge point within a previously approved 
site location and within the same defined segment of the receiving surface water may not require 
site location approval as determined by the Division. These application procedures also apply to 
proposals to construct new treatment facilities that will produce reclaimed domestic wastewater if 
those facilities are to be constructed at a site location that has not been previously approved by 
the Division or at a different site from the secondary treatment plant location. 
(a) 
These forms shall be available from the Water Quality Control Division, 4300 Cherry 
Creek Drive South, Denver, Colorado 80246-1530 and on the Division's web page. 
(b) 
Accompanying the application shall be an engineering report describing the proposed 
new domestic wastewater treatment works and showing the applicant's capabilities to 
manage and operate the facility over the life of the project. The report shall be considered 
the culmination of the planning process. A design report is not necessary for the site 
location application or to obtain site location approval. Design review procedures are 
described in section 22.13. The engineering report submitted with the application shall 
meet all requirements of Section 22.4, including information the Division must consider 
pursuant to sections 22.3 and 22.5, and address and/or include the following at a 
minimum: 
(i) 
Service area definition including existing and projected population, site location, 
staging or phasing, flow/loading projections, and relationship to other water and 
wastewater treatment plants in the area. 
(ii) 
Proposed site location, evaluation of alternative sites, and evaluation of treatment 
alternatives. 
(iii) 
Water quality planning targets as developed in coordination with the Division. 
The applicant may indicate in the engineering report that effluent limits for 
metals, organic parameters, and/or inorganic parameters, other than for total 
residual chlorine, will be met through implementation of a pretreatment program 
or other legally enforceable means of limiting discharges of these parameters to 
the wastewater collection system. The applicant may also provide documentation 
in the form of effluent data or an analysis predicting effluent quality to 
demonstrate that the limits will be met without specific source controls. Where 
the applicant indicates these parameters will be controlled by means other than 
treatment, after considering information provided by the applicant, the Division 
may condition the approval of the site location application to require a plan for 
control of the pollutants to be submitted with the permit application for the facility. 
Where the Commission has adopted a temporary modification pursuant to 
section 31.7(3) for the segment to receive the discharge for metals, organic 
parameters, or inorganic parameters other than for total residual chlorine, the 
water quality planning targets will be based on subsection 31.9(4) of the Basic 
Standards and Methodologies for Surface Waters (Basic Standards).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
11 
Prior to submitting the application, the applicant is responsible to ensure that it 
has considered any impacts that changes to water quality standards may have 
on the water quality planning targets in their site location application and design 
for the proposed wastewater treatment works. Additionally, there are other 
factors that can impact the applicability of the water quality planning targets, such 
as changes in stream flows, new discharges to the segment, or ambient water 
quality. The Division may require that the water quality planning targets be re-
evaluated when the Division is processing an application with water quality 
planning targets that, in the Division's judgment, may no longer be applicable. If it 
is determined that new water quality planning targets must be issued, Division 
action on the application will be delayed until new water quality planning targets 
are developed and it is verified that the proposed treatment process(es) will be 
able to meet any new water quality planning targets developed in accordance 
with this subsection. 
(iv) 
Analysis of the loading, capacity and performance of any relevant existing 
facilities within the applicant's service area(s). 
(v) 
Analysis of opportunities for consolidation of treatment works in accordance with 
the provisions of section 22.3(1)(c), including those recommended in the regional 
water quality management plan, unless the approved regional water quality 
management plan recommends no consolidation. 
(vi) 
Evidence that the proposed site and facility operations will not be adversely 
affected by floodplain or other natural hazards. Where such hazards are 
identified at the selected site, the report shall describe means of mitigating the 
hazard. 
(vii) 
Information used to evaluate geotechnical conditions at the proposed and 
alternative sites. This may include soil survey data from the Natural Resource 
Conservation Service (NRCS), data from the Colorado Geological Survey, 
existing data from on-site or adjacent geotechnical investigations, and other data 
and information the applicant deems to be representative of the expected 
geotechnical conditions. The preliminary geotechnical information must be 
sufficient for that person to make a determination that the site can reasonably be 
expected to support the proposed treatment works. Applicant may choose to 
submit a formal geotechnical report, including site-specific soil boring information 
and meeting the requirements of Section 22.6(1)(b)(vii), in support of the site 
application. The engineering report shall address the impact of expected 
geotechnical conditions at the proposed and alternative sites on design, 
construction, operation, and maintenance of the proposed facilities. 
During the design phase, the Division may require that evidence be presented in 
the form of a report, containing soils testing results from the site of the proposed 
treatment works and design recommendations, prepared by a Professional 
Geologist, a Geotechnical Engineer, or by a professional meeting the 
qualifications of both Professional Geologist and Geotechnical Engineer, with an 
appropriate level of experience investigating geologic hazards, stating that the 
site will support the proposed facility. Where the applicant submits a formal 
geotechnical report with the site application, then the applicant has satisfied the 
geotechnical submittal requirements for the design review stage of the Division’s 
review process and resubmittal of the geotechnical report is not required. 
(viii) 
Detailed description of selected alternatives including legal description of the site 
of the proposed treatment works, treatment system description, design 
capacities, and operational staffing needs.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
12 
(ix) 
Legal arrangements showing control of the site for the project life or showing the 
ability of the entity to acquire the site and use it for the project life. 
(x) 
Institutional arrangements such as contract and/or covenant terms which will be 
finalized to pay for acceptable waste treatment. 
(xi) 
Management capabilities for controlling the wastewater loadings within the 
capacity limitations of the proposed treatment works, i.e., user contracts, 
operating agreements, pretreatment requirements and/or the management 
capabilities to expand the facilities as needed (subject to the appropriate, future 
review and decision procedures). 
(xii) 
Financial system which has been developed to provide for necessary capital and 
continued operation, maintenance, and replacement through the life of the 
project. This would include, for example, anticipated annual budget and the fee 
and rate structure. 
(xiii) 
Implementation plan and schedule including estimated construction time and 
estimated start-up date. 
(xiv) 
Demonstration of the owner’s capability to operate and maintain the facility, 
which shall include an emergency operations plan. The emergency operations 
plan shall outline procedures to minimize the possibility of sanitary sewer 
overflows and health hazards to the public and operations personnel. The 
emergency operations plan shall include information on, but not be limited to 
telemetry, backup power supply identification, portable emergency pumping 
equipment, emergency storage/overflow protection, and operator emergency 
response time. 
(c) 
Where the site application indicates that the proposed domestic wastewater treatment 
works will discharge treated effluent to a ditch or other manmade conveyance structure, 
or that an easement, right-of-way or other access onto or across private property of 
another person may be necessary to construct the facility or to effectuate the discharge, 
the applicant shall furnish to the Division evidence that a notice of the intent to construct 
a new domestic wastewater treatment works has been provided to the owner of such 
private property. 
(d) 
Where capacity in a domestic wastewater treatment works is shared between two or 
more entities, the entities must have entered into a capacity sharing agreement. The 
capacity sharing agreement must include terms that define that allocation of the 
treatment works amongst the parties and terms for initiating expansion of capacity and 
provisions for design capacity changes (increase or decrease). A draft of the agreement 
must be submitted with the site location application and a final approved version must be 
submitted with the design. 
(e) 
Where a domestic wastewater treatment works is proposed to provide service to a new or 
expanded service area, the owner of the proposed treatment works must demonstrate 
that this new or expanded service area is consistent with the regional water quality 
management plan.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
13 
(2) 
The applicant shall be responsible for submitting the application and engineering report described 
in section 22.6(1)(b) for the proposed new domestic wastewater treatment works to all 
appropriate local governments, 208 designated planning and management agencies and State 
agencies for review and comment prior to submission to the Division. The applicant must perform 
all necessary coordination and supply all information for review by other agencies. The applicant 
is responsible for obtaining all necessary signatures on the form before sending it to the Division, 
unless the agencies fail to comment within sixty (60) days, as discussed below. After receiving a 
site location application, each agency shall have a period of sixty (60) days in which to review and 
comment on the application and to make a recommendation to the Division. After that sixty (60) 
day period, the applicant may submit the application to the Division without such comments 
and/or recommendations. Upon receipt of any application lacking the comments or 
recommendation of an appropriate review entity, the Division shall contact that agency and 
provide a period of seven (7) days for the agency to provide comments and/or a recommendation 
or to explain the absence of such comments and/or recommendation. The review and 
commenting agencies shall include the following: 
(a) 
Management Agency, if different from other entities listed below. The Management 
Agency is to comment on the consistency of the proposed treatment works to the existing 
regional water quality management plan. 
(b) 
County if the proposed facility is located in the unincorporated area of a county. The 
county, through its commissioners or its designee, is requested to review and comment 
upon: the relationship of the treatment works to the local long-range comprehensive plan 
for the area as it affects water quality; the proposed site location alternatives including the 
location with respect to the flood plain; and the capacity to serve the planned purpose. A 
recommendation of approval from the county is considered to be a statement that the 
proposal is consistent with the water quality considerations contained in its local 
comprehensive plan. 
(c) 
City or Town if the proposed facility is to be located within the boundaries of a city or town 
or within three miles of those boundaries if the facility is to be located in an 
unincorporated area of the county. The city or town, through its mayor, council or its 
designee, is requested to review and comment upon: the relationship of the treatment 
works to the local comprehensive plan and/or utility plan for the community as it affects 
water quality; the proposed site location alternatives including the location with respect to 
the flood plain; and the capacity to serve the planned development. A recommendation of 
approval from the city or town is considered to be a statement that the proposal is 
consistent with the water quality considerations contained in its local comprehensive 
plan. 
(d) 
Local Health Authority, who is requested to review and comment on local issues, policies 
and/or regulations related to public health, safety and welfare as affected by the proposal. 
(e) 
208 Planning Agency, if designated or if such function has been delegated by the State, 
should comment on the consistency of the proposed treatment works to the regional 
water quality management plan. 
(f) 
Other state or federal agencies shall be sent a copy of the application, if the proposed 
treatment works would be on or adjacent to any land owned or managed by such agency. 
The review and signature requirements given above do not apply to these agencies. 
(3) 
To notify the public, and provide additional opportunity for public input, the following posting 
requirements apply to all new treatment works, unless posted in accordance with local permitting 
requirements:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
14 
(a) 
Signs are to be posted for fifteen (15) continuous days prior to the time the site location 
application is submitted to the Division. However, the Division should be notified of the 
project at the time of posting so that necessary public information can be made available 
as required under (b) of this section. A photograph of the sign or other documentation 
certifying that this posting requirement has been met must be included in the application. 
(b) 
The sign shall be not less than 3' x 4' on a post not less than 4' above the natural grade 
where allowable, or else in conformance with applicable county or municipal sign codes. 
Notice shall contain the following information: 
NOTICE OF PROPOSED FACILITY (IDENTIFY) 
(Title must be 4” in red, or maximum allowable under sign code.) 
Notice is hereby given that the property upon which this sign is posted shall be 
considered for the construction of a facility (identify). Additional information may be 
obtained by contacting the applicant (include applicant's phone number) or the Colorado 
Department of Public Health and Environment, Water Quality Control Division, (303) 692-
3500. 
22.7 
APPLICATION PROCEDURES FOR INCREASING OR DECREASING THE DESIGN 
CAPACITY OF AN EXISTING DOMESTIC WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT WHERE 
CONSTRUCTION HAS TAKEN PLACE OR WILL TAKE PLACE 
(1) 
The site location application for any increase or decrease in the design capacity of a domestic 
wastewater treatment plant where construction has taken place or will take place or where a re-
rating without construction is to occur, except for interceptor sewers and lift stations as described 
in sections 22.8, 22.9, and 22.10, shall be made to the Division on the proper form. Prior to 
submitting the form to the Division, the application must be submitted to the local authorities and 
the 208 designated planning and management agencies for review and comment in accordance 
with section 22.7(2). 
(a) 
These forms shall be available from the Water Quality Control Division, 4300 Cherry 
Creek Drive South, Denver, Colorado, 80246-1530 and on the Division's web page. 
(b) 
For facilities applying for a decrease in the approved, rated design capacity of an existing 
domestic wastewater treatment works to 2,000 gpd or less, with or without construction, 
the owner shall make an application for a site location decision. For these applications, a 
separate design review step is not required per section 22.13. As part of the site 
application, the applicant shall provide an adequate engineering report that documents 
the basis for decreasing the hydraulic and/or organic capacity and address consistency 
with local wastewater facility plans and any approved water quality management plans. 
The engineering report submitted with the application shall meet all requirements 
specified in Section 22.4, including the information the Division must consider pursuant to 
sections 22.3 and 22.5, and address and/or include the following at a minimum: 
(i) 
Changes to existing service area, including existing and projected population, 
flow/loading projections, maximum month average daily flow, maximum 
occupancy for buildings at the site, operating plan, and other factors identified in 
section 22.3. 
(ii) 
Analysis of the loading, capacity and performance of the existing and planned 
treatment works.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
15 
(iii) 
Description of proposed modifications and construction. 
(iv) 
Management capabilities for controlling the wastewater loadings within the 
capacity limitations of the proposed treatment works (i.e., user contracts, 
operating agreements). 
(v) 
Evidence that the local public health agency is capable and willing to require 
daily flow monitoring be conducted and periodically reported to the local agency 
to confirm the design capacity is not exceeded, if deemed necessary by the 
Division. 
(c) 
For applicants seeking an increase or decrease in the design capacity of a domestic 
wastewater treatment plant, the applicant shall provide an engineering report that 
documents the need for the increase or decrease in the design capacity and consistency 
with local wastewater facility plans and any approved regional water quality management 
plans. The engineering report submitted with the application shall meet all requirements 
of Section 22.4, including information the Division must consider pursuant to sections 
22.3 and 22.5, and address and/or include the following at a minimum: 
(i) 
Changes to existing service area, population and loading projections. 
(ii) 
Water quality planning targets, as developed in coordination with the Division 
consistent with subsection 22.6(1)(b)(iii), except for organic only capacity 
changes and/or where a temporary modification is adopted pursuant to section 
31.7(3) of the Basic Standards, the water quality planning targets will be 
consistent with subsection 31.9(4)(a) of the Basic Standards. After considering 
information provided by the applicant, the Division may defer the requirement to 
treat for the parameter to a compliance schedule to be included in the permit or 
where the applicant indicates that a parameter will be controlled by means other 
than treatment, the Division may condition the approval of the site location 
application to require a plan for control of the pollutant. 
(iii) 
Analysis of the loading, capacity and performance of the existing treatment 
works. 
(iv) 
Analysis of alternative means to treat the additional or reduced loading, in 
accordance with section 22.3(1), including any consolidation alternatives 
recommended in the approved regional water quality management plan except if 
the plan recommends no consolidation, that option does not need to be 
considered. 
(v) 
Changes in the financial system which will result from the proposed increase or 
decrease in the design capacity, including changes to the fee structure. 
(vi) 
Implementation plan and schedule, including the estimated construction time and 
the estimated date upon which the modified plant will be in operation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
16 
(vii) 
Information used to evaluate geotechnical conditions at the proposed and 
alternative sites may include soil survey data from the Natural Resource 
Conservation Service (NRCS), data from the Colorado Geological Survey, 
existing data from on-site or adjacent geotechnical investigations, and other data 
and information the applicant deems to be representative of the expected 
geotechnical conditions. The preliminary geotechnical information must be 
sufficient to make a determination that the site can reasonably be expected to 
support the proposed treatment works. The applicant may submit a formal 
geotechnical report, including site-specific soil boring information that meets the 
requirements of section 22.6(1)(b)(vii), in support of the site application. The 
engineering report shall address the impact of expected geotechnical conditions 
at the proposed and alternative sites on design, construction, operation, and 
maintenance of the proposed facilities. 
During the design phase, the Division may require that evidence be presented in 
the form of a report, containing soils testing results from the site of the proposed 
treatment works and design recommendations. This report should be prepared 
by a Professional Geologist, a Geotechnical Engineer, or by a professional who 
meets the qualifications of both Professional Geologist and Geotechnical 
Engineer and who has an appropriate level of experience investigating geologic 
hazards, stating that the site will support the proposed facility. Where the 
applicant submits a formal geotechnical report with the site location application, 
then the applicant has satisfied the geotechnical submittal requirements for the 
design review stage of the Division’s review process and resubmittal of the 
geotechnical report is not required. 
(2) 
For all site location applications to increase or decrease the design capacity of a domestic 
wastewater treatment works, the applicant shall be responsible for submitting the application and 
engineering report described in section 22.7(1) for the increase or decrease in the design 
capacity of the domestic wastewater treatment works to all appropriate local governments, 208 
designated planning and management agencies, and state agencies for review and comment 
prior to submission to the Division. The procedures for this comment and review process are 
specified in section 22.6(2). 
22.8 
SITE LOCATION APPLICATION PROCEDURES FOR INTERCEPTORS AND CERTIFICATION 
PROCEDURES FOR ELIGIBLE INTERCEPTOR SEWERS 
(1) 
Certification Eligibility 
(a) 
A new or expanding interceptor sewer is eligible to apply for a site location decision 
through the certification process (22.8(2)) in lieu of a site location application when: 
(i) 
The receiving treatment entity has adequate capacity to treat, or has site location 
approval for sufficient additional capacity to treat the projected total flow and the 
projected total flow would still be under their discharge permit flow limitations, 
where applicable, after the interceptor sewer is completed; and 
(ii) 
The proposed interceptor sewer is capable of carrying the projected flows from 
the applicable service area; and 
(iii) 
The project must be consistent with the regional water quality management plan. 
(b) 
Where an interceptor project cannot meet all requirements needed for the certification 
process the interceptor must apply under the site location application process described 
under item 22.8 (3).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
17 
(2) 
Site Location Certification Process: A site location application certification process for eligible 
interceptors is allowed when applicable. Ninety days prior to the commencement of construction 
of an interceptor sewer, the person responsible for that sewer shall notify the 208 designated 
planning and management agencies and the Division of such construction. This notification shall 
be accompanied by a certification from the treatment entity receiving the wastewater for treatment 
that it has, or will have, the approved capacity to treat the projected wastewater from that 
interceptor sewer in accordance with the treatment entity's site location approval and discharge 
permit. Within 30 days of receipt of notification, the 208 planning agency, or the Division if a 208 
planning agency does not exist, shall certify that the proposed interceptor sewer has the capacity 
to carry the projected flow and is consistent with the Water Quality Management Plan. In the 
event the person responsible for an interceptor sewer does not have the said certifications from 
the treatment entity and the 208 planning agency, the person responsible shall be required to 
obtain site location approval from the Division, as set forth in section 22.8(3) of these regulations, 
prior to construction. 
(a) 
The notification to the Division shall include the proper application form. These forms 
shall be available from the Water Quality Control Division, 4300 Cherry Creek Drive 
South, Denver, Colorado, 80246-1530 and on the Division's web page. 
(b) 
For each notification received pursuant to section 22.8(2), the Division shall make a site 
location application determination for the certification. For an approval, the Division shall 
acknowledge the certification in writing, to the responsible person. 
(3) 
Site Location Application Process: Site location application for new or expanding interceptors not 
eligible for certification is required when applicable. A site location application shall be made to 
the Division on the proper form. Prior to submitting the form to the Division, the application must 
be submitted to the local authorities and the 208 designated planning and management agencies 
for review and comment in accordance with section 22.8(3)(c), 22.8(3)(d), and 22.8(3)(e). 
(a) 
The notification to the Division shall include the proper application form. The form shall be 
available from the Water Quality Control Division, 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, 
Denver, Colorado, 80246-1530 and on the Division's web page. 
(b) 
Accompanying the application shall be an adequate engineering report describing the 
proposed interceptor sewer. The report shall be considered the culmination of the 
planning process. A completed design is not necessary for the application or to obtain 
site location approval. Design review procedures are described in section 22.13. The 
engineering report submitted with the application shall meet all requirements of Section 
22.4, including containing all information the Division must consider pursuant to sections 
22.3 and 22.5 and shall address and/or include the following at a minimum: 
(i) 
A map identifying the site of the interceptor alignment, associated service area; 
land uses and environmental considerations. 
(ii) 
Service area for the interceptor sewer, including existing and projected 
population, and flow/loading projections over the project planning period. 
(iii) 
Final legal arrangements demonstrating control of the site or the governing 
jurisdiction’s authorization to construct, operate, and maintain facilities in their 
right-of-way for the project life or preliminary documentation showing the intent to 
negotiate the same in good faith. 
(iv) 
Identification of the treatment entity responsible for receiving and treating the 
wastewater and confirmation, in writing, from the wastewater treatment entity that 
it:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
18 
(A) 
Will treat the wastewater. 
(B) 
Is not presently receiving wastes in excess of its design capacity as 
defined in its site location approval and/or discharge permit, or is under 
construction, or will be in a phased construction of new or expanded 
facilities. 
(C) 
Will have the necessary capacity to treat the projected discharge from 
the new or expanded interceptor sewer. 
(D) 
Has not been in violation of any effluent limitations in its discharge permit 
for the last two years and is not operating under a Notice of Violation 
and/or Cease and Desist Order from the Division resulting from 
discharge permit violations. Alternatively, if there have been effluent 
violations or if the treatment plant is operating under a Notice of Violation 
and/or Cease and Desist Order from the Division, the Division will 
evaluate the situation and the treatment entity’s proposed corrective 
measures to achieve consistent compliance and determine if approval 
should be granted, granted with conditions, or denied. 
(v) 
Confirmation in writing from the 208 designated planning and management 
agencies that the proposed interceptor sewer has the capacity to carry the 
projected flow and is consistent with the regional water quality management plan. 
(vi) 
Implementation plan and schedule including estimated construction time and 
estimated start-up date. 
(vii) 
Identification of the entity that is financially responsible for the construction of the 
facility, financially responsible for owning and long term operating expense of the 
proposed facility, and responsible for managing and operating the proposed 
facility after construction. If these entities differ from the applicant, provide the 
legal arrangements showing the identified responsibilities and terms of 
arrangement. 
(c) 
The application shall be forwarded to the city, town, or county in whose jurisdiction(s) the 
interceptor is to be located for review and comment. The local authorities are requested 
to review and comment upon: the relationship of the interceptor to its local 
comprehensive plan and/or utility plan for the community as it affects water quality; the 
proposed site location including the location with respect to the floodplain; and the 
capacity to serve the planned purpose. A recommendation of approval from the local 
authority is considered to be a statement that the proposal is consistent with the water 
quality considerations contained in its local comprehensive plan. If the local authority 
does not review and comment on the application within 60 days, the applicant may 
submit the application to the Division without such comments and/or recommendations. 
Upon receipt of any application lacking the comments or recommendation of an 
appropriate review entity, the Division shall contact that agency and provide a period of 
seven (7) days for the agency to provide comments and/or a recommendation or to 
explain the absence of such comments and/or recommendation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
19 
(d) 
The application shall be forwarded to the 208 designated planning and management 
agency for the area in which the facilities are to be constructed and for the area to be 
served by those facilities for review and comment. A recommendation of approval from 
the appropriate 208 designated planning and management agency (agencies) is 
considered to be a statement that the proposal is consistent with any adopted water 
quality management plan(s). If the 208 planning agency does not review and comment 
on the application within 60 days, the applicant may submit the application to the Division 
without such comments and/or recommendations. Upon receipt of any application lacking 
the comments or recommendation of the 208 planning agency, the Division shall contact 
that agency and provide a period of seven (7) days for the agency to provide comments 
and/or a recommendation or to explain the absence of such comments and/or 
recommendation. 
(e) 
For all applications meeting the above criteria, the Division will adopt the 
recommendation of the 208 planning agency, assuming that the recommendation is 
consistent with that of the other review agencies, unless it is aware of potential adverse 
impacts from the project to water quality or the public health, safety or welfare not 
identified or addressed in the application. If the 208 planning agency does not provide a 
recommendation, or if the review agencies do not agree on the recommendation, then 
the Division will review and act on the application in accordance with section 22.13.  
(4) 
If, after certification or site location approval is issued, there is a change in design capacity of the 
interceptor (either an increase or decrease), the person responsible for the interceptor sewer 
shall submit a new site location application reflecting the change in design parameters. The 
submission and review process shall be the same as detailed in 22.8(2) or 22.8(3), as applicable. 
(5) 
If, after the site location approval is issued but prior to completion of construction, there is a 
change in alignment of the interceptor, the person responsible for the sewer shall include an 
updated map and any new legal arrangements as part of the as-built certification process. The 
Division will decide whether a new site location application is required or the existing can be 
modified without a new site location application. 
22.9 
APPLICATION PROCEDURES FOR LIFT STATIONS 
(1) 
The site location application for the following lift station applications shall be made to the Division 
on the proper form: new, change in site boundary, or a change in design capacity.  
For new lift stations, design capacity changes, or when a change of the site boundary of a 
previously approved site location is desired, a complete site location application is required to be 
developed and submitted as detailed in this section. The previously approved site location 
number must also be submitted to CDPHE as part of the change of site boundary application. 
If a change in design capacity (increase or decrease) is proposed for an existing lift station with a 
previously approved site location application, the applicant shall submit the original site 
application, approval letter and an updated site location application. If these documents are 
unavailable, the report must document all information outlined within this section. If these 
documents are available, the application must include all pertinent information that will change as 
a result of the capacity change. This approach applies only if all work is performed within the 
boundaries of the originally approved site location. 
Prior to submitting the form to the Division, the application must be submitted to the local 
authorities and the 208 designated planning and management agencies for review and comment 
in accordance with sections 22.9(1)(c), 22.9(1)(d), and 22.9(1)(e).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
20 
(a) 
These forms shall be available from the Water Quality Control Division, 4300 Cherry 
Creek Drive South, Denver, Colorado, 80246-1530 and on the Division's web page. 
(b) 
Accompanying the application shall be an adequate engineering report describing the 
proposed lift station. The report shall be considered the culmination of the planning 
process. A complete process or basis of design report is not necessary for the site 
location application or to obtain site location approval. Design review procedures are 
described in section 22.13. The engineering report submitted with the application shall 
meet all requirements of Section 22.4, including containing all information the Division 
must consider pursuant to sections 22.3 and 22.5 and address and/or include the 
following at a minimum: 
(i) 
A map identifying the site of the proposed facilities, topography of the area, and 
neighboring land uses. 
(ii) 
Service area for the lift station, including existing and projected population, and 
flow/loading projections showing projected flow and loading over the following 20 
years. 
(iii) 
Identification of the treatment entity responsible for receiving and treating the 
wastewater. 
(iv) 
Legal arrangements showing control of the site or right-of-way for the project life 
or showing the ability of the entity to acquire the site or right-of-way and use it for 
the project life. 
(v) 
Confirmation, in writing, from the wastewater treatment entity that it: 
(A) 
Will treat the wastewater. 
(B) 
Is not presently receiving wastes in excess of its design capacity as 
defined in its site location approval and/or discharge permit, or is under 
construction, or will be in a phased construction of new or expanded 
facilities, and will have the necessary capacity to treat the projected 
discharge from the new or expanded lift station. Projections of flow and 
loading to the treatment plant over the period during which build out of 
the service area will occur or twenty years, whichever is less as well as 
current and future plant capacity information must be provided to 
demonstrate the plan for maintaining adequate capacity to treat. Any 
proposed treatment plant phased construction must be shown in the 
Water Quality Management Plan, or by appropriate planning and 
engineering studies. 
(C) 
Has not been in violation of any effluent limitations in its discharge permit 
for the last two years and is not operating under a Notice of Violation 
and/or Cease and Desist Order from the Division resulting from 
discharge permit violations. Alternatively, if there have been effluent 
violations or if the treatment plant is operating under a Notice of Violation 
and/or Cease and Desist Order from the Division, then the Division will 
evaluate the situation and the treatment entities' proposed corrective 
measures to achieve consistent compliance and determine if approval 
should be granted, granted with conditions, or denied. 
(vi) 
Evidence that the lift station will be properly operated and maintained.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
21 
(vii) 
Management capabilities for controlling the wastewater loadings within the 
capacity limitations of the proposed lift station, i.e., user contracts, operating 
agreements, pretreatment requirements and/or the management capabilities to 
expand the facilities as needed (subject to the appropriate, future review and 
decision procedures). 
(viii) 
Financial system which has been developed to provide for necessary capital and 
continued operation, maintenance, and replacement through the life of the 
project. This would include, for example, anticipated annual budget and the fee 
and rate structure. 
(ix) 
Demonstration of the owner’s capability to operate and maintain the facility, 
which shall include an emergency operations plan. The emergency operations 
plan shall outline procedures to minimize the possibility of sanitary sewer 
overflows and health hazards to the public and operations personnel. The 
emergency operations plan shall include information on, but not be limited to 
telemetry, backup power supply identification, portable emergency pumping 
equipment, emergency storage/overflow protection, and operator emergency 
response time. 
(x) 
Implementation plan and schedule including estimated construction time and 
estimated start-up date. 
(xi) 
To notify the public, and provide additional opportunity for public input, the 
posting requirements given in section 22.6(3) shall also apply to all new lift 
stations. 
(c) 
The application shall be forwarded to the city, town, or county in whose jurisdiction(s) the 
lift station is to be located for review and comment. The local authorities are requested to 
review and comment upon: the relationship of the lift station to its local comprehensive 
plan and/or utility plan for the community as it affects water quality; the proposed site 
location including the location with respect to the floodplain; and the capacity to serve the 
planned purpose. A recommendation of approval from the local authority is considered to 
be a statement that the proposal is consistent with the water quality considerations 
contained in its local comprehensive plan. If the local authority does not review and 
comment on the application within 60 days, the applicant may submit the application to 
the Division without such comments and/or recommendations. Upon receipt of any 
application lacking the comments or recommendation of an appropriate review entity, the 
Division shall contact that agency and provide a period of seven (7) days for the agency 
to provide comments and/or a recommendation or to explain the absence of such 
comments and/or recommendation. 
(d) 
The application shall be forwarded to the 208 designated planning and management 
agency for the area in which the facilities are to be constructed and for the area to be 
served by those facilities for review and comment. A recommendation of approval from 
the appropriate 208 designated planning and management agency (agencies) is 
considered to be a statement that the proposal is consistent with any approved regional 
water quality management plan(s). If the 208 designated planning and management 
agency does not review and comment on the application within 60 days, the applicant 
may submit the application to the Division without such comments and/or 
recommendations. Upon receipt of any application lacking the comments or 
recommendation of the 208 designated planning and management agency, the Division 
shall contact that agency and provide a period of seven (7) days for the agency to 
provide comments and/or a recommendation or to explain the absence of such 
comments and/or recommendation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
22 
(e) 
For all applications meeting the above criteria, the Division will adopt the 
recommendation of the 208 planning agency, assuming that the recommendation is 
consistent with that of the other review agencies, unless it is aware of potential adverse 
impacts from the project to water quality or the public health, safety or welfare not 
identified or addressed in the application. If the 208 planning agency does not provide a 
recommendation, or if the review agencies do not agree on the recommendation, then 
the Division will review and act on the application in accordance with section 22.13. 
22.10 
APPLICATION PROCEDURES FOR AMENDMENT OF EXISTING SITE LOCATION 
APPROVAL 
(1) 
The application for amendment of an approved site location is available for domestic wastewater 
treatment works projects. For lift stations, the application for amendment of an approved site 
location shall be made to the Division on the proper form with a list of the review authorities, as 
defined in section 22.9, to whom the amendment proposal has been provided. For domestic 
wastewater treatment plants, the application for amendment of an approved site location shall be 
made to the Division on the proper form with a list of the review authorities, as defined in section 
22.6, to whom the amendment proposal has been provided. In either case, review agencies shall 
have 15 working days from receipt of the application to review and comment directly to the 
Division unless a brief (less than 15 working days) extension is requested in writing. The Division 
will not deem a lack of comments from such agencies within the specified comment period as a 
recommendation for denial during its consideration of the application. The applicant is not 
required to provide copies to review authorities for the types of disinfection modifications as 
described in section 22.10(2)(a)(ii). 
(a) 
Forms shall be available from the Water Quality Control Division, 4300 Cherry Creek 
Drive South, Denver, Colorado, 80246-1530 and on the Division's web page. 
(b) 
The applicant, in consultation with the Division, should also evaluate whether a discharge 
permit modification or Request for Chemical Evaluation form is necessary and file the 
appropriate application with the Division if it is needed. 
(c) 
For all site location amendment applications, accompanying the application shall be an 
adequate engineering report describing the proposed project. The report shall be 
considered the culmination of the planning process. A complete process or basis of 
design report is not necessary for the site location application or to obtain site location 
approval. Design review procedures are described in section 22.13. The engineering 
report submitted with the application shall meet all requirements of Section 22.4, 
including containing all information the Division must consider pursuant to sections 22.3 
and 22.5 and address and/or include the following at a minimum: 
(i) 
Description/purpose of project and summary of proposed change. 
(ii) 
Map identifying the site of the proposed facilities. 
(iii) 
Site Plan or Process Flow Diagram (before and after proposed change). 
(iv) 
Analysis of the loading, capacity and performance of the existing treatment 
works. 
(v) 
Changes to existing service area, population and loading projections. 
(vi) 
Description of how the proposed project will impact the performance of other 
parts of the treatment works and the impact on the facility’s ability to meet 
effluent limitations (existing and proposed).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
23 
(vii) 
Estimated cost of project and funding source. 
(viii) 
Facility classification implications of project and staff or contractual facility 
operator certification. 
(ix) 
Project schedule. 
(x) 
Geotechnical information per section 22.6(1)(b)(vii) for new structures. 
(xi) 
Copy of Request for Chemical Evaluation form and Water Quality Control 
Division, Permits Section’s associated decision, as required. 
(xii) 
Change in outfall sewer location (if required). 
(xiii) 
Copies of agency referral notifications. 
(xiv) 
Water quality planning targets developed in accordance with section 
22.6(1)(b)(iii) including changes in target reclaimed water categories and 
standards - if required. 
(xv) 
A description of anticipated future effluent limits and a narrative description of the 
long range plan to achieve those future effluent limits and how the proposed 
project fits within the long range plan. 
(2) 
An amendment is not required if the changes consist of in-kind replacement, or operation and 
maintenance described in 22.12(1) or do not include construction. An amendment to the site 
location approval shall be required for any one of the following changes from conditions reflected 
in an approved site application or from conditions at a domestic wastewater treatment plant 
constructed prior to November 1967 and not expanded or amended (modified) since that date: 
(a) 
Physical changes to any of the following treatment processes that is not associated with 
a design capacity change: 
(i) 
Any changes in type of disinfection to include chlorine gas or from other types of 
disinfection to chlorination. (A change from other types of disinfection to any form 
of chlorination requires that a water quality planning target for residual chlorine 
be obtained and included in the application). 
(ii) 
A change in disinfection type (i.e., from gas chlorination to liquid chlorination, 
from any form of chlorination to ultraviolet light disinfection, bromine chloride, 
chlorine dioxide, peracetic acid, or other accepted disinfection chemicals). 
(iii) 
Changes or additions to the liquid stream treatment processes (e.g., sizing, 
technology, configuration, or recycle stream associated with preliminary, primary, 
secondary, or tertiary treatment) that could impact hydraulic, pollutant(s), or 
solids loadings to the treatment process. 
(iv) 
Changes or additions to the unit processes in the solids stream treatment 
processes (e.g., aerobic or anaerobic digestion, dewatering, composting, etc.) 
that would change the characteristics of the recycle stream or biosolids.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
24 
(v) 
If a treatment entity is contemplating a physical change to its treatment works 
that is similar in scope to those listed above, but is not precisely covered by this 
list, then the entity must request a Division decision by submitting an analysis 
from a professional engineer registered to practice in the State of Colorado 
describing the proposed changes and describing how those changes would 
affect the performance of other parts of the treatment works, downstream 
treatment works, and effluent quality. Where such an analysis is submitted, the 
Division shall evaluate the proposed process change considering the list above 
and provide a written response to the entity either stating that the changes may 
either be made without amending their previous site location approval and 
obtaining design approval, or require a site application amendment and 
subsequent design review. Such letter from the Division shall clearly specify that 
the changes executed must not be more extensive than those proposed in the 
engineer's analysis. 
(b) 
A decrease or expansion in the approved, rated design capacity of the treatment works, 
as long as no construction is to take place, or a change in the design flow portioning that 
does not change the design capacity. An increase or decrease in hydraulic capacity for a 
treatment plant will require that the existing effluent limitations be analyzed in 
coordination with the Division to determine whether new water quality planning targets 
must be developed. Any changes in treatment requirements necessitated by more 
stringent water quality planning targets must be addressed by the proposed amendment 
to the site location. 
(c) 
The addition of, or increase of a treatment process to generate reclaimed domestic 
wastewater following secondary treatment at an existing treatment plant that has 
previously received site location and design approval. This amendment would also cover 
the change in type of discharge employed which includes treatment changes to achieve 
more restrictive reclaimed water categories and standards.  Site approval amendments 
are not required for adding re-use sites in accordance with the Reclaimed Domestic 
Wastewater Regulation (5 CCR 1002-84). 
(d) 
The following changes in the type of discharge employed, where there is no change in 
the treatment process: 
(i) 
From a surface water discharge to a ground water discharge, or vice-versa, at 
the same approved site location, subject to appropriate water quality planning 
targets; or 
(ii) 
A partial or complete change from a surface water or ground water discharge to 
reclaimed water use subject to the requirements in the Reclaimed Domestic 
Wastewater Control Regulation (5 CCR 1002-84). Such amendment is only 
required for the first instance when reclaimed water use is implemented unless 
there is a subsequent request to change reclaimed categories that requires the 
system to meet different water quality planning targets.  Site approval 
amendments are not required for adding reclaimed water use sites in accordance 
with the Reclaimed Domestic Wastewater Regulation (5 CCR 1002-84). 
(3) 
An amendment to the lift station site location approval shall be required for any of the following 
changes that do not increase the design capacity of the lift station. The applicant shall follow the 
notification procedures under Section 22.9. Any modifications for the purposes of biological 
treatment at the lift station are not considered as a site location amendment and will be handled 
on a case by case basis to be determined by the Division. The following are examples of the type 
of changes to a lift station that require amendment to the lift station site location approval: 
(a) 
Addition or modification of odor control treatment at the lift station.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
25 
(b) 
Addition or modification of emergency storage or wetwell capacity. 
(c) 
Addition or modification of grinding/screening equipment. 
(d) 
Addition or modification of back-up power (generator). 
(e) 
Rehabilitation or replacement not meeting the definition of in-kind replacement, due to 
facility age or for operational improvements including the inlet piping or associated force 
main(s) as long as improvements do not increase the design capacity of the lift station. 
(f) 
Standard operation & maintenance activities and in-kind replacement (see Section 22.12 
for In-Kind Replacement requirements) of infrastructure are excluded from the 
requirement to submit a site location amendment. 
22.11 
APPLICATION PROCEDURES FOR DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS 
(1) 
A domestic wastewater treatment works with a site location approval may submit a site location 
demonstration project application to temporarily modify their site location approval or conditional 
site location approval to evaluate process and technologies prior to permanently changing the 
treatment works. The application for a demonstration project at an approved site location shall be 
made to the Division on the proper form. 
(a) 
The form shall be available from the Water Quality Control Division, 4300 Cherry Creek 
Drive South, Denver, Colorado, 80246-1530 and on the Division's web page. 
(b) 
Accompanying the application shall be an adequate Demonstration Project Testing Plan 
describing the proposed project. The engineering report submitted with the application 
shall meet all requirements of Section 22.4, including containing all information the 
Division must consider pursuant to sections 22.3 and 22.5 and address and/or include 
the following at a minimum: 
(i) 
A Demonstration Project Testing Plan that is, as required, signed and sealed by 
a professional engineer registered to practice in the State of Colorado. 
(A) 
Project goal and description of the demonstration test technology, 
process, or chemical. 
(B) 
Description of the testing protocol including sampling plan with testing 
frequencies, locations, and methods. 
(C) 
Site Plan or Process Flow Diagram (before and during proposed 
demonstration installation) 
(D) 
If the proposed project will impact the performance of other parts of the 
treatment works, provide a description of how the proposed project will 
impact the performance of other parts of the treatment works and the 
impact on each unit treatment process’s ability to meet effluent 
limitations (existing and proposed). 
(E) 
Project schedule.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
26 
(ii) 
If the Demonstration Project involves the use of chemicals, the applicant, in 
consultation with the Permits Section, shall evaluate whether a Request for 
Chemical Evaluation form and/or a discharge permit amendment is required to 
be submitted to the Division for review and approval prior to receiving approval 
for starting/implementing the demonstration project. 
(2) 
Demonstration projects have a limited time period during which testing may be conducted. As a 
general rule, demonstration projects must be completed as expeditiously as practical and cannot 
extend beyond two years without receiving an extension from the Division. The Division may 
authorize the operation of demonstration equipment and processes beyond two years upon 
written request. The written request shall specify the reason(s) for the extension request, set forth 
a proposed schedule for completion of the demonstration project, and identify a specific date by 
which the demonstration project will conclude. For example, extension requests may be made for 
the following; awaiting a division decision of site location and design review applications, 
alternative technology application, or permit modification; construction of the permanent 
installation; or other circumstance that could not reasonably be foreseen at the time of the initial 
demonstration project approval. 
(3) 
During the duration of the demonstration project, the domestic wastewater treatment works must 
comply with permit effluent limitations, conditions, and local, state, and federal requirements. 
(4) 
A demonstration project may not: 
(a) 
Be proposed by a new or existing domestic wastewater treatment works that does not 
have an existing site location and design approval. 
(b) 
Be used to modify the current, approved design capacity for a site. 
(c) 
Cause or contribute to the exceedance of a water quality standard. 
(d) 
Cause a temporary or permanent exceedance of the hydraulic and/or organic design 
capacity or rated capacity of a domestic wastewater treatment works. 
(e) 
Continue past the time permitted by the Division, including permanent installation of any 
demonstration project, unless a time extension is granted or site location and design 
approval are obtained from the Division. 
(f) 
Change the approved site location and permitted discharge location. 
(5) 
The design application process pursuant to Section 22.13 is not required for pilot projects. 
(6) 
Posting of the site and agency notifications are not required for demonstration projects.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
27 
22.12 
IN-KIND REPLACEMENT 
(1) 
The owner of a domestic wastewater treatment works (or its designee) that installs structures or 
equipment that meets the definition of in-kind replacement shall submit written notice of the 
nature and extent of such replacement to the Division no later than fifteen (15) working days after 
the replacement work has been put into service. Notice for in-kind replacement shall be made to 
the Division on the proper form. The notification may include multiple, independent pieces of 
equipment or structures that qualify for in-kind replacement within a single written notice of in-kind 
replacement. Division notification is not required for operation and maintenance activities or 
identical replacements of a process treatment component or hydraulic conveyance component 
including but not limited to, replacement with the same size and technology in the same location 
or for replacement of valves, non-wastewater lifting pumps, piping, pipe relining, yard structures, 
motors, splitter structures, manholes, vaults, samplers, monitoring equipment, and support 
systems. Unless waived by the Division, a site location and design review application is required 
for replacement of equipment outside of the property approved under the latest site application. 
(a) 
The form shall be available from the Water Quality Control Division, 4300 Cherry Creek 
Drive South, Denver, Colorado, 80246-1530 and on the Division's web page. 
(b) 
The engineering report submitted with the application shall meet all requirements of 
Section 22.4, including containing all information the Division must consider pursuant to 
sections 22.3 and 22.5 and address and/or include the following at a minimum: 
(i) 
Existing domestic wastewater treatment works information: 
(A) 
Site location approval number and date of existing approval for the site. 
(B) 
Name of domestic wastewater treatment works facility. 
(C) 
Domestic wastewater treatment works treatment process description. 
(ii) 
In-kind Replacement Details 
(A) 
In-kind project description; 
(B) 
Installation date of original equipment identified for in-kind replacement 
and proposed date of in-kind replacement; 
(C) 
Description of existing and proposed equipment including critical 
information demonstrating that replacement meets the definition of in-
kind replacement; 
(D) 
Discussion of the in-kind replacement reason 
(E) 
Discussion of whether the existing equipment received a variance, 
deviation, or alternative technology acceptance as part of the original 
design approval process and if so, describe the specifics of the variance, 
deviation, or alternative technology acceptance; 
(F) 
Identification of the Colorado Discharge Permit System number for the 
facility or facility receiving the flow if a lift station or interceptor. 
(3) 
Existing appurtenances of a domestic wastewater treatment works that do not have site location 
and design approval are not eligible for in-kind replacement.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
28 
(4) 
In-kind replacement may occur at a different location within the existing approved site. 
Replacements that cannot occur within the existing, approved site are considered to be new and 
are subject to the requirements of section 22.6, 22.8, or 22.9, as applicable. 
(5) 
Where an increase in the hydraulic and/or organic capacities of a domestic wastewater treatment 
works is being requested based on one or more in-kind replacements of structures or equipment, 
the Division may require the owner to submit an application for a facility expansion in accordance 
with section 22.7 of this regulation. 
(6) 
Components meeting the definition of in-kind replacement may be brought into conformance with 
current design criteria requirements at the originally approved component’s designed capacity. 
(7) 
Design approval pursuant to Section 22.13 is not required for components that qualify as in-kind 
replacement. 
22.13 
THE DESIGN APPLICATION PROCESS 
(1) 
In addition to approval of the site application or amendment, the applicant must obtain approval of 
the design of the treatment works from the Division prior to beginning construction. For domestic 
wastewater treatment plants, the design review is a two-step process that includes submittal of a 
Process Design Report (PDR) for review and a decision by the Division followed by submittal of 
the final design documents (plans and specifications) or self-certification documents by the 
applicant. For lift stations, design review is a single-step process that involves a single submittal 
that includes a Basis of Design engineering report and final plans and specifications. For 
interceptors that certify or attain site location approval under section 22.8, the certification or site 
location approval issued by the Division is the final decision. In lieu of a design review for 
interceptors, the entity is to submit a self-certification letter for interceptors. Once accepted, no 
additional design review submittals are required prior to initiating construction for interceptors. 
Notwithstanding the definition of domestic wastewater treatment works (treatment works) at 
subsection 22.2(12) of this regulation, once an owner has received site location approval, the 
owner may initiate work in preparation for construction, (e.g., site clearing, site dewatering and 
access roads) as long as such work is completed by the owner’s own forces or is completed 
under a contract that does not include any elements of the construction of the treatment works 
including, but not limited to site excavation, construction of pipe galleries, and procurement or 
installation of equipment. Facilities generating reclaimed domestic wastewater are domestic 
wastewater treatment works and are required to complete the design review process. The PDR 
and the final design documents must be stamped and signed by the applicant's professional 
engineer, registered to practice in the State of Colorado.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
29 
For a new, modified, or expanded domestic wastewater treatment plant, the applicant must 
submit the Process Design Report (PDR), stamped and signed by the applicant's professional 
engineer who must be registered to practice in the State of Colorado, a completed PDR checklist, 
and any requests for site specific deviation from the CDPHE design criteria for domestic 
wastewater treatment works. Following approval of the PDR by the Division, the applicant and 
their engineer must submit a self-certification of the final design documents. At the Division’s 
discretion, or when funding requires, the applicant may be required to complete the full design 
review process which would require the Division to approve final plans and specifications in lieu 
of the self-certification by the application and their engineer. When the final design documents 
(plans and specifications) are complete, the professional engineer for the applicant that prepared 
such plans shall submit a stamped, dated, and signed certification on a form provided by the 
Division affirming that the final design is consistent with the approved site application, the PDR 
approval letter, and the most recent version of the Division’s design criteria for domestic 
wastewater treatment works, noting any approved site-specific deviations from the Division’s 
design criteria. The proposed project cannot move forward into the construction stage without site 
location approval by the Division, approval of the PDR, and Division acceptance of the self-
certification request letter or written approval by the Division when final plans and specifications 
are required by the Division in lieu of a self-certification by the applicant and engineer. 
If the Division discovers discrepancies between the facilities as described in the Basis of Design 
or PDR approval letter and those finally constructed, the applicant will either make modifications 
to resolve the inconsistency to the Division’s satisfaction or the approval of the design will be null 
and void. Similarly, if the Division discovers discrepancies between the facilities or capacities 
described in the interceptor certification or site location approval and those finally constructed, the 
applicant will either agree to make modifications to resolve the inconsistency to the Division’s 
satisfaction or the approval of the site location will be null and void. 
In some cases, the design of the domestic wastewater treatment works can impact the cost and 
funding of the preferred option specified in the site location application. In such cases the 
applicant is encouraged to consult with the Division regarding the specific circumstance and 
identify critical design issues during the site application review to avoid obtaining site location 
approval for an option that will not be able to obtain design approval. 
(2) 
The applicant's professional engineer, registered to practice in the State of Colorado, must certify 
at the completion of construction that the treatment works was constructed according to site 
application, engineering reports, plans, specifications, conditions, and significant amendments 
thereto as approved by the Division. Significant amendments are considered those that change 
the treatment process, the capacity of the treatment works, the ability to operate the treatment 
works, or those that do not meet the minimum requirements outlined within the design criteria 
used to evaluate the PDR or Basis of Design. 
(3) 
Design reviews shall be conducted by the Division in accordance with policies established by the 
Division and the Commission. 
(4) 
Approval of a facility design by the Division or the Commission in no way negates the necessity 
for all applicants to obtain all required approvals from other federal, state, and local agencies. 
(5) 
Notice of the decision by the Division shall be included in the next Water Quality Information 
Bulletin. 
(6) 
Written notification of the Division's decision shall be sent to the applicant and all persons who 
have shown interest via written communication.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
30 
(7) 
Any person adversely affected or aggrieved by the Division's decision on a proposed facility 
design must appeal that decision to the Commission as a prerequisite to the right of judicial 
review pursuant to the State Administrative Procedures Act. The appeal shall be made in writing 
to the office of the Administrator and be postmarked no later than thirty (30) days after the date of 
the mailing of the bulletin notice of the Division action. Within ninety (90) days of the filing of the 
appeal the Commission shall commence a hearing to consider such appeals in accordance with 
the provisions of section 24-4-105, C.R.S. If an appeal is made to the Commission, the decision 
shall be made in accordance with the criteria specified in these regulations. 
22.16 
Statement of Basis and Purpose 
A written statement of the basis and purpose of these regulations and the amendments adopted by the 
Commission on November 18, 1981 has been prepared and adopted by the Commission. The written 
statements are hereby incorporated in these regulations by reference in accordance with 24-4-103, 
C.R.S., as amended. 
22.14 – 15 
RESERVED 
22.17 
Statement of Basis and Purpose for the Amendments to the Regulations Entitled 
“Regulations for Site Applications for Domestic Wastewater Treatment Works Adopted: 
November 17, 1981 
The subject regulations are for the implementation of the Colorado Water Quality Control Act, C.R.S., 25-
8-101, et seq. Section 25-8-702 (1)(a) specifically requires the Water Quality Control Division to approve 
the site location of any domestic wastewater treatment works with designed capacity greater than 2,000 
gallons per day prior to the commencement of the construction or expansion of the treatment works. 
The regulations are intended to advise applicants for site approvals of the proper procedures for obtaining 
the site approvals and as to the minimum information necessary for the Division to determine if a site 
application should be approved. 
Section 25-8-702 (2) specifically states: “In evaluating the suitability of a proposed site location for a 
domestic wastewater treatment works, the Division shall: (a) Consider the local long-range 
comprehensive plan for the area as it affects water quality and any approved regional water quality 
management plan for the area; (b) Determine that the plant on the proposed site will be managed to 
minimize the potential adverse impacts on water quality and; (c) Encourage the consolidation of 
wastewater treatment facilities whenever feasible”. These factors are contained in the regulations and 
permit information necessary to evaluate those considerations are required by the regulations. 
The only scientific and technological issues involved in these regulations are the preliminary design data, 
comprehensive planning, and facility management considerations which must be submitted to the 
Division so it may evaluate the site application against the statutory mandate. However, these regulations 
do not specify the details of such requirements since each application must be evaluated on its own 
terms. Therefore, further explanation here is unnecessary. 
The site application forms will require submittal of technical data which allow the Division staff to evaluate 
such things as service area and population, treatment capabilities and alternatives, flood plain 
information, financial capabilities, and legal and institutional arrangements. Also, in regard to 
comprehensive planning, the forms will require information as to the relation of the proposed facility to 
existing and regional facilities and require that appropriate local governments and planning agencies have 
an opportunity to review the proposed project. An explanation of the costs of compliance with these 
regulations is discussed in the fiscal impact statement.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
31 
In considering the economic reasonableness of its action in adopting these regulations the Commission 
considered the cost of compliance with the expected benefits of maintaining existing uses of State waters. 
It found the costs of compliance to be an insignificant part of the overall scheme for protecting the State's 
waters. In addition, much of the cost of compliance with these regulations was considered by the General 
Assembly in adopting the site approval requirement and would be incurred in the planning process and in 
obtaining a State discharge permit. 
22.18 
Fiscal Statement Regarding Amendments to the Regulations Entitled Adopted: November 
17, 1981 
“Regulations for Site Application for Domestic Wastewater Treatment Works” 
Private and municipal applicants for approval of sites for the location of wastewater treatment works shall 
directly bear the cost of the rule and it is presumed that their cost will become a component of 
subsequent wastewater treatment fees imposed on persons or entities ultimately using the proposed 
treatment works. Such costs are those incurred by the site applicants for preparation of engineering 
studies and reports. The specific dollar amount will be a function of the complexity and size of the 
proposed wastewater treatment plant. The beneficiaries of this rule are those persons or entities utilizing 
the waters of the State into which the discharge from the proposed site would flow. The positive fiscal 
impact of this rule on beneficiaries will be from preservation of existing uses of the waters of the State 
from which users receive economic gain and other benefits. 
Although there will be additional costs involved in the compliance with the requirements of this regulation, 
there was no specific economic data submitted to the Commission through the public hearing process 
and no testimony was given that the regulations themselves would cause an adverse economic burden. 
Furthermore such costs would be incurred as a part of the planning and permit processes. 
22.19 
Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose; 1996 Amendments 
The provisions of 24-4-103(4), 25-8-202(1)(e), (I), and (2) and 25-8-702, C.R.S., provide the specific 
statutory authority for consideration of the regulatory amendments proposed by this Notice. The 
Commission also adopted, in compliance with 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the following statement of basis and 
purpose. 
Basis and Purpose: 
A. 
Overview 
The existing requirements which are being addressed in this proceeding have been in place since their 
original adoption in 1981. During this time, the Commission has become aware of minor deficiencies with 
these requirements. The changes adopted in this proceeding will further clarify already existing 
requirements for applicants as well as easing time constraints on all parties affected by appeal 
proceedings. 
B. 
Title 
The title of the regulations has been shortened to make it less cumbersome and to reflect the process to 
which it applies. 
C. 
Vault 
A definition of a vault has been incorporated as 22.2 to clarify the status of this type of Individual Sewage 
Disposal System (ISDS) with respect to this process. Vaults are recognized as a form of ISDS through 
25-10-105(1)(h) and, as provided by Paragraph II.A, of the Guidelines On Individual Sewage Disposal 
Systems, required to obtain site approval when design flows exceed 2,000 gallons per day.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
32 
D. 
Consolidation 
The required elements of the engineering report have been modified to include an analysis of 
opportunities for consolidation of treatment works together with other treatment alternatives at 
2.2.4(3)(c)(iv). This should serve to reduce site application review times by providing information on 
feasibility necessary to comply with 25-8-702(2)(c). 
E. 
Effective Date 
The status of an approval which is under appeal to the Commission has been clarified by modifying 
2.2.5(4). In at least two instances, applicants have questioned whether the approval date was the date of 
the Division action or the date of the Commission action. To clarify this confusion, the Commission has 
defined the date of its ruling on an appeal as the effective date of the approval. 
F. 
Notice 
The means of providing public notice of site application actions has been changed to reflect the correct 
title of the Commission's bulletin. 
G. 
Appeals 
The present requirements provided only a sixty (60) day time frame within which to commence a hearing. 
This has created scheduling problems for the Commission and placed an undue hardship on all parties in 
adequately preparing for a hearing on such short notice. The Commission has, therefore, amended 
2.2.5(7) of the regulation to allow up to ninety (90) days from receipt of an appeal to the commencement 
of a hearing. 
22.20 
Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose; July, 1997 Rulemaking 
The provisions of sections 25-8-202 and 25-8-401, C.R.S., provide the specific statutory authority for 
adoption of the attached regulatory amendments. The Commission also adopted, in compliance with 
section 24-4-103(4) C.R.S., the following statement of basis and purpose. 
Basis and Purpose 
The Commission has adopted a revised numbering system for this regulation, as a part of an overall 
renumbering of all Water Quality Control Commission rules and regulations. The goals of the 
renumbering are: (1) to achieve a more logical organization and numbering of the regulations, with a 
system that provides flexibility for future modifications, and (2) to make the Commission's internal 
numbering system and that of the Colorado Code of Regulations (CCR) consistent. The CCR references 
for the regulations will also be revised as a result of this hearing. 
22.21 
Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose; January, 1998 Rulemaking 
The provisions of sections 25-8-202 and 25-8-401, C.R.S., provide the specific statutory authority for 
adoption of the attached regulatory amendments. The Commission also adopted, in compliance with 
section 24-4-103(4) C.R.S., the following statement of basis and purpose.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
33 
Basis and Purpose 
Introduction: These revisions to the Regulations for the Site Approval Process 22 (5 CCR 1002-12) were 
initiated by an informational hearing in September, 1995. At that hearing, the Commission heard from 
several parties regarding improvements that could be made in the rules and, based on that input, decided 
to make several minor improvements without further public input. However, the Commission also realized 
that there were more substantive issues that would be best addressed by receiving more thorough input, 
and subsequently assigned the task of proposing major rule revisions to an advisory committee. The 
Water Quality Control Division was given the responsibility of preparing the list of minor changes as well 
as organizing the review team that would grapple with the larger issues. 
Both processes were set in motion in late 1995, and the set of minor amendments was adopted by the 
Commission in May of 1996. The critical review team was organized in December, 1995, and was 
comprised of representation from consulting engineers, local government, regional planning agencies, 
wastewater treatment agencies, and the real estate development industry. The changes to the rule 
adopted in this action were the result of the work of the review team during 1996 and 1997. The following 
is a description of the rationale behind each of the changes. 
Definitions, (22.2): Significant changes to the definitions included: 
- 
Application was added to the definitions to avoid confusion as to what constituted an appropriate 
set of information from which to reach a decision. 
- 
Approval was added to clarify that the Division's final action could take several forms. 
- 
Design Capacity was modified to indicate that the means of expressing capacity is an important 
feature that must be provided consistently. 
- 
Domestic Wastewater was modified to clarify that it does not mean process wastewater. This 
modification does not alter the terms usage and is consistent with the definitions of domestic 
wastewater treatment plant and domestic wastewater treatment works. 
- 
Interceptor Sewer was modified to clarify that a small number of taps does not automatically 
nullify the concept of a large receiving sewer, and that sewers less than 24 inches in diameter are 
not significant conveyances requiring site approval, except in unusual circumstances. 
- 
Population Equivalent, Throughput, and Transporting Entity were deleted since they were no 
longer used in these regulations. 
- 
Process Wastewater was added only to clarify the regulation. Its definition is the same as that 
contained in the Commission's Colorado Discharge Permit System Regulations, Regulation 61 (5 
CCR 1002-61) 
- 
Vault was modified by deleting the words watertight, covered to remove a perceived loophole in 
the regulation. It was determined that this is not inconsistent with the ISDS regulation, but that the 
Division would review the ISDS regulation to determine if it also should be modified. 
- 
Water Quality Management Plan was added to clarify that not all plans are oriented towards 
managing water quality, a point of some confusion in the past.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
34 
Declaration of Policy (22.3): Much of the previous language in the section which sets forth Commission 
policy for issuing site approval was taken directly from the statute (25-8-702, C.R.S.). To avoid 
redundancy and provide focus, only those three statutory policies expressly requiring certain 
considerations were repeated. The previous regulation also included a list of other policy considerations 
that were largely left intact, but included several important modifications. Interceptor was deleted from 
each policy where it appeared since they are not part of a treatment works. Also, the statutory reference 
to design and construction of expansions, after certain capacity thresholds were reached, was deleted as 
redundant. Finally, a new policy, 22.3(6), which set forth conditions and procedures for a planning agency 
to enter into a coordinated review process with the Division, was included. This new policy addressed one 
of the main concerns with the previous rule in that plan amendment requirements were seen as 
duplicative of site approval requirements where viable area wide water quality management plans were in 
existence. This new policy will allow a coordinated and efficient review at both the regional and state 
level. A few minor changes to the list of policies, including a new, easy-to-read format, were also made. 
Application Procedures - New (22.4): Another significant concern with the previous regulation was that it 
did not recognize the difference in complexity between application for an entirely new site as opposed to 
an expansion at an existing approved site. The changes made in this action recognize those differences 
by streamlining application procedures for expansions in a separate section. The prior rule also included 
application procedures for interceptors and lift stations under one set of requirements. Since these 
processes could be much more streamlined, they, too, were addressed in a separate section. 
Section 22.4 now deals only with application procedures for new wastewater treatment plant sites. A 
number of minor wording changes help clarify the revised section, but several significant changes were 
also necessary. The requirement for an analysis of opportunities for consolidation has always been a 
subject of controversy, but the changes to 22.4(1)(b)(iv) should help by linking that analysis to a water 
quality management plan, thus avoiding redundancy. The flood plain analysis requirement was also 
clarified (22.4(1)(b)(vi)), and a new requirement to include soils and geologic hazard evaluation, prepared 
by qualified professionals, should help to assure that suitable plant sites are selected (22.4(1)(b)(vii)). The 
requirement of legal arrangements showing control of the site for the project life was expanded to include 
the ability of the entity to acquire the site and use it for the project life. It was clarified that any approval 
based on this was not to be used as a justification in a condemnation proceeding (22.4(1)(b)(ix)). 
The review and sign-off procedures in 22.4(2) were extensively revised to make the process more 
efficient. Among the more significant changes was the inclusion of a requirement that the Division solicit 
comments from any review agency who has not submitted comments on an application. This requirement 
will help assure that nearly all applications have the full review of appropriate agencies. More definition of 
the scope of the review requested from municipalities and local health authorities was also included. 
The requirement that the State Geologist review each application was deleted from the list of review 
agencies. This action was taken largely because of the inclusion of more extensive geologic information 
now required as part of the engineering report (see 22.4(1)(b)(iv)), including the requirement that the 
information be developed by a professional geologist and a geotechnical engineer, or a professional who 
meets the qualifications of both geologist and geotechnical engineer. This review was also considered a 
costly evaluation which produced little in the way of added value. A new provision was added allowing the 
Division to require that an applicant ask for review and comment from other agencies, including the State 
Geologist regarding potential geologic hazards, if it feels such review is needed (22.8(2)).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
35 
Application Procedures - Expansions (22.5): Since expansions at existing approved sites do not have to 
meet the same threshold tests as new sites in the areas of site suitability, financing, institutional and 
management considerations, the application and review requirement should be streamlined accordingly. 
This has been addressed by adding a new section specifically for expansions. Section 2.2.5 includes less 
complex application requirements and a somewhat abbreviated review process. These changes were 
made in response to review committee input that stresses the importance of a discharger's treatment 
track record as the most important consideration when an application to expand was pending. The typical 
questions of site suitability and long term ability to treat wastes asked of new applicants were largely moot 
in the case of expansions. A provision allowing the Division to require a geologic report, as in section 
22.5, was included. Section 22.8(2), which allows the Division to require that an applicant ask for review 
and comment from other agencies, is also applicable to section 22.5. 
Application Procedures - Lift Stations/Interceptors (22.6): In the previous regulations, application 
requirements for all types of facilities were merged into one section. This has created some confusion and 
unnecessary work, particularly for new interceptor sewers and lift stations. Section 22.6 alleviates this 
confusion by separating out the application, certification, and review procedures for interceptors and lift 
stations. The certification procedures for interceptors is largely unchanged, but is now less confusing 
since it is dealt with in a separate section (22.6(1)). The application procedures for ineligible interceptors 
and all lift stations is streamlined and clarified in 22.6(2), and the approval process is much improved by 
requiring only statements of consistency with appropriate plans as the heart of the review. Division 
oversight of that determination of consistency is correspondingly minimized. 
Application Procedures - Amendments (22.7): Experience with the site approval process has revealed 
that occasionally it is necessary to amend approved applications. These changes are often the result of 
new effluent requirements brought about because of revised stream standards or other regulatory 
changes. Occasionally, it is simply a matter of upgrading a facility with new technology without expanding 
the capacity (expansions require site approval via 22.5). An informal amendment process has been in 
place since that need was recognized, but this process is now formalized with the inclusion of 22.7. That 
section sets forth the circumstances when an amendment is necessary, the minimal information 
requirements in the application, and the streamlined review process. 
Criteria for Decision Making - (22.8): Most of the criteria guiding Division and Commission decision-
making was retained from the existing regulation. However, some modification to the criteria dealing with 
consolidation opportunities was made for clarification purposes, and a new criteria was added to 
emphasize the important role that current and comprehensive area wide water quality management plans 
play in reaching a site approval decision. 
Parties to the Rulemaking Hearing 
1. 
Denver Regional Council of Governments 
2. 
Metro Wastewater Reclamation District 
3. 
Aspcol Corporation, N.V., Douglas and Barbara Scheffer, and Puma Paw Ranch, Inc. 
4. 
The City of Colorado Springs 
5. 
North Front Range Water Quality Planning Association 
6. 
Pike Peak Area Council of Governments

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
36 
22.22 
Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose; April 2004 Rulemaking 
The provisions of sections 25-8-202 and 25-8-401, C.R.S., provide the specific statutory authority for 
adoption of the attached regulatory amendments. The Commission also adopted, in compliance with 
section 24-4-103(4) C.R.S., the following statement of basis and purpose. 
Basis and Purpose 
Introduction: The changes adopted to this regulation by the Commission largely implement the 
recommendations developed by a Division-led stakeholder group that was formed after the informational 
hearing held by the Commission in March 2003. 
There were numerous minor changes made to improve clarity and address inconsistencies in the 
previous regulation. Substantive changes are summarized and discussed below. In addition to the 
regulatory changes, the Division and stakeholders agreed that a guidance document must be developed 
to inform the regulated community about the Division's review and approval process. The guidance 
document will include a further description of the Division's review process including flow charts and 
timelines. The guidance document will also include detailed instructions for completing an application, 
target deadlines for the Division to issue PELs and process applications, and reporting mechanisms for 
the Division to assess achievement of these target deadlines. Improving the predictability and timeliness 
of the review process is an expected outcome of implementing the guidance document. The guidance 
document will be issued by the Division no later than September 30, 2004. 
Title: The title of the regulation was changed to add design approval so that the regulations will fully 
encompass the site location and design approval processes that are specified in 25-8-702 C.R.S. 
Definitions, (22.2): Significant changes to the definitions included: 
* “Amendment” was added to the definitions to help clarify when the process defined in section 22.8 is 
applicable. 
* “Approval” was modified to include the interceptor certification and design approval process and to 
require that approvals provide specific information with regard to the treatment works being approved. 
* “Construction” was modified to allow design-build contracts to be executed for domestic wastewater 
treatment works projects. The definition in 25-8-701 is repeated; however, a sentence was also added to 
exclude the portion of such a design-build contract, that covers the site application and design work, from 
being considered to be “construction.” Usually, in these circumstances, the Division has worked with the 
entity to approve portions of the design in a stepwise fashion, approving each portion of the design before 
actual construction activities of that portion of the treatment works commence. The Commission finds this 
to be an acceptable practice. The Commission still intends that no actual erection or physical placement 
of materials, equipment, piping, earthwork, or buildings which are to be part of a domestic wastewater 
treatment works may be commenced unless the full site application and at least that portion of the design 
to be constructed has been approved by the Division. 
* “Comprehensive Plan” was added to distinguish this plan from the 208 Water Quality Management Plan 
and other local government plans and address the situation when comprehensive plans overlap the 
subject property. Since cities, towns and counties can formally adopt comprehensive plans or master 
plans for areas that extend beyond their legal boundaries, it is possible that the site for a wastewater 
treatment facility will be addressed in more than one comprehensive plan. The revised definition allows 
the Division to consider each of these overlapping plans and gives direction when these plans are in 
conflict. There are instances in Colorado where local governments have addressed overlapping planning 
areas through Intergovernmental Agreements. The Division should be made aware of such agreements 
by the local governments in their review so that the site application can be found consistent with the 
plan(s) as addressed in the agreement.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
37 
* “Design Capacity” was modified to be more specific and allow for the possibility that a parameter other 
than flow or biochemical oxygen demand may limit design capacity. Additionally, the design capacity for 
Individual Sewage Disposal Systems (ISDS) that are subject to the site location approval process was 
defined. 
* “Domestic Wastewater Treatment Works” was modified to conform with the definition provided in 25-8-
103 C.R.S., except that the revised definition includes facilities with a design capacity equal to two 
thousand gallons per day. The definition in the Water Quality Control Act includes facilities that receive 
more than two thousand gallons per day. The Guidelines on Individual Sewage Disposal Systems 
adopted by the Board of Health cover systems with design capacities of less than two thousand gallons 
per day. Thus, a facility with a design capacity of exactly two thousand gallons per day could potentially 
be excluded from regulation altogether. The Commission finds that including such systems in this 
regulation is appropriate. 
* “Effluent Limitation” was added. The definition references Colorado Discharge Permit Regulations, 5 
CCR 1002-61. 
* “GPD” (gallons per day) or “MGD” (million gallons per day) was modified so as not to conflict with the 
definition of design capacity. 
* “Individual Sewage Disposal System (ISDS)” was added for clarification. Furthermore, an ISDS with a 
design capacity equal to or greater than two thousand gallons per day is considered to be a domestic 
wastewater treatment works. 
* “Interceptor Sewer” was modified to more clearly list the actual functions of an interceptor sewer that 
make it subject to the regulations. 
* “Lift Station” was clarified because any lift station receiving less than two thousand gallons per day 
would not be subject to this regulation, not just lift stations associated with small clusters of single-family 
residences. 
* “208 Planning Agency” was added to clarify that this is specifically one of the agencies established in 
the Water Quality Control Act with authority to comment during the site application process. Previously 
this was defined only as “Planning Agency” which created confusion. Thus, in numerous places 
throughout the regulation, “Planning Agency” was changed to “208 Planning Agency.” 
* “Outfall Sewer,” a type of domestic wastewater treatment works, was modified to exclude reclaimed 
domestic wastewater distribution and transmission system piping because it is not appropriate to require 
site location and design approval for these piping systems, as the reuse does not result in a discharge to 
state waters. 
* “Preliminary Effluent Limitations (PELs)” was added because this term is used in the regulation and 
PELs are required to be submitted as part of an application. 
* “Reclaimed Domestic Wastewater” was added because the site application procedures applicable to 
domestic wastewater treatment works for reclaimed domestic wastewater were clarified in the regulation. 
The definition is consistent with 25-8-103 C.R.S. 
* “Site” was added. The definition is consistent with the Colorado Discharge Permit Regulations, 5 CCR 
1002-61. 
* “Treatment Process Modification” was added because the site application procedures applicable for 
such modifications were clarified in section 22.8.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
38 
* “Vault” was modified to clarify that if the building(s) it serves will generate more than two thousand 
gallons per day of domestic wastewater, then the vault is a domestic wastewater treatment works. 
Declaration of Policy, (Section 22.3): The title of this section was changed because this Policy Declaration 
is applicable for the overall site location approval process, not just to construction or expansion situations. 
Section 22.3(2)(e) was changed to be more specific and focus on water quality impacts. Section 22.3(2)(f) 
was modified to allow the Division to consider the applicant's capability, including legal authority and 
financial capability, to adequately construct the treatment works rather than just their operational 
management capability after the facility is constructed. 
Sections 22.3(3) and 22.3(4) of the previous regulation were moved to the newly-created section 22.10 
which addresses the design review process. Sections 22.3(5) and 22.3(6) were added to the Declaration 
of Policy for clarification. Section 22.3(7) was moved from section 22.4(5) of the previous regulation 
because it is a more general policy statement applicable to the entire site location approval process and 
not just the site location approval process for new treatment works, which is the topic of section 22.4. 
Sections 22.3(8), (9), (12), (13), (14) and (15) were moved from section 22.8 of the previous regulation 
because they are general policy type statements and are not factors in decision-making (which is the 
substance of the previous section 22.8). Section 22.3(10) was created by moving the text from section 
22.4(1)(b)(ix) of the previous regulation because the concepts expressed therein apply to the overall site 
location approval process and not just the legal control of the site aspect covered in section 22.4(1)(b)(ix). 
This same text was repeated in section 22.6(2)(e) of the previous regulation and has been deleted from 
that location. The approval period provided in section 22.3(12) is now more flexible and can be extended 
past one year, if merited, and shown as necessary in the schedule provided with the application. The first 
sentence in section 22.3(15) was also modified to improve clarity. The last sentence of section 22.3(15), 
regarding the need for applicants to obtain all required approvals from other state and local agencies, was 
moved from the previous text to create section 22.3(11) because that concept applies to the overall site 
location approval process and not just the appeals process that is covered in section 22.3(15). 
Application Procedures - New (Section 22.4): The title of this section was changed because it applies to 
more types of domestic wastewater treatment works than only treatment plants, and this is further clarified 
by the changes to section 22.4(1). The site application procedures in section 22.4 also apply to outfall 
sewers moving from the approved site to another location and new facilities being constructed to produce 
reclaimed domestic wastewater at a site location not previously approved by the Division or at a different 
site from the secondary treatment plant. It is now clarified in section 22.4(1)(b) that a full design report is 
not needed to support the site application. Also, a detailed evaluation of alternative treatment sites and 
treatment techniques will not be required for small systems. This change is being made to lessen the 
burden of the site application process on small systems based on stakeholder feedback. However, small 
systems must consider the feasibility of consolidation. A discussion of the applicability and the possible 
need to confirm or change PELs during the site application process has been added to section 
22.4(1)(b)(iii) to make applicants aware of these considerations. 
A sentence was added to the end of sections 22.4(2)(b) and (c) to clarify the meaning of a 
recommendation for approval from local agencies. Section 22.4(3) of the previous regulation was moved 
to section 22.4(2) as subsection (f) because this completes the listing of other agencies involved in the 
process and includes all of them within section 22.4(2). The text in section 22.4(2)(f) was also modified 
slightly to be more consistent with the other elements in section 22.4. 
Section 22.4(4) of the previous regulation was moved to the beginning of section 22.4(2) because it is a 
better fit with that portion of the regulation covering coordination and signatures from other agencies. 
Section 22.4(5) in the previous regulation was moved to section 22.3(7), as discussed above, because it 
is more consistent with a policy statement. Minor clarifications were added to the posting requirements in 
section 22.4(3) and it is now clear as to how meeting the posting requirement can be met and how this 
can be demonstrated in the application.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
39 
Application Procedures - Expansions (Section 22.5): The title of this section was changed because it 
applies to more types of domestic wastewater treatment works than only treatment plants, and this is 
further clarified by the changes to section 22.5(1). Additionally, inclusion of facility modifications in this 
section was not appropriate. Treatment process modifications are now covered explicitly in section 
22.8(2)(b). Section 22.5(4) was modified so that the comment and review process for an expansion is 
equivalent to that in section 22.4(2). 
Certification Procedures - Eligible Interceptors (Section 22.6): This section was added to more clearly 
segregate the two possible site location approval mechanisms for interceptors: certification (described in 
section 22.6) or application (described in section 22.7). Certification is the simpler of the two processes 
but is not possible in all circumstances. Section 22.6(1) provides the circumstances when an interceptor 
sewer is eligible for certification. Sections 22.6(2) and (3) discuss the certification process and the 
Division's response in these situations. The text in section 22.6(2) was also modified to more closely 
parallel the provisions in 25-8-702(3) C.R.S. 
Application Procedures - Interceptors Not Eligible for Certification and Lift Stations (Section 22.7): The 
title of this section was changed to clarify that the requirements therein apply to interceptor sewers that 
cannot be certified as provided for in the newly-created section 22.6 and to all lift stations. Changes were 
made to sections 22.7(1)(c) and (f)(ii) to allow a more complete analysis of the overall flow and loading 
projections associated with lift stations and of the accepting treatment plant to ensure that the treatment 
plant has or will have adequate capacity over time. It is acceptable for the treatment plant to rely on 
expansion or phased construction, provided that such is presented in the Water Quality Management 
Plan, or appropriate planning and engineering studies. Section 22.7(1)(f)(iii) has been modified to provide 
appropriate means for reviewing proposed lift stations in these circumstances. Section 22.7(1)(i) was 
added to require posting as required in section 22.4(3). Leaving this requirement out of this section was 
an oversight when this section was created during the last update to the regulation. 
Clarifications to the local agency review process were incorporated into sections 22.7(2) and 22.7(3). 
Additionally, the same path forward provided in section 22.4(2) for new or expanding treatment works 
specifying how applicants can proceed when the local authorities or the 208 planning agency do not 
review an application within 60 days has been added to sections 22.7(2) and 22.7(3). This was done 
because site applications for lift stations and interceptor sewers not eligible for certification should not be 
subject to local agency review requirements that are different from site applications for new or expanding 
treatment works. A sentence was also added to the end of section 22.7(4) to allow the Division to act on a 
site application that is not reviewed by the 208 planning agency. Additional text was added clarifying that 
the Division will review and act on an application in accordance with section 22.9 in the event that the 
review agencies do not agree on the recommendation to approve or disapprove the site location approval 
application.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
40 
Application Procedures - Amendments (Section 22.8): Experience with the site location approval process 
has shown the applicability and efficiency of the relatively simple amendment process to be beneficial. 
Changes were undertaken in this section to clarify the amendment process for reviewing agencies and to 
more fully develop the circumstances when a proposed treatment process modification requires that the 
previous site location approval be amended. Modifications were also made to section 22.8(1) to allow for 
certain types of changes in disinfection process, specified in section 22.8(2)(b)(ii), to proceed without 
review agency comment. The application form for these types of amendments will be simplified as 
compared to the standard amendment form. The Commission determined that this is an appropriate 
simplification of the amendment process since these changes would not significantly alter the approved 
site or pose any additional off-site concerns. However, the ability for such agencies to appeal the 
amendment approval would remain the same as the current regulation. Section 22.8(2)(b) provides a list 
of physical treatment process changes that the amendment process will apply to and a process for 
resolving other similar changes. The Commission contemplates, for amendments described in section 
22.8(2)(b)(ii), that the application form can be submitted concurrently with the design documents and that 
the Division will act on both submittals simultaneously. Changes to the secondary treatment system that 
would require an amendment under section 22.8(2)(b)(iii) are limited to physical changes that significantly 
alter how the facility accomplishes secondary treatment, e.g., changing from lagoon treatment to 
activated sludge treatment, adding clarifiers and sludge re-circulation to Rotating Biological Contactors to 
improve ammonia removal, etc. Treatment process modifications that do not involve construction of 
facilities, e.g., changing chemical flocculants, would not require site location approval (or amending the 
existing approval). Section 22.8(2)(c) was modified to cover capacity rating changes more explicitly and to 
highlight the need to consider any potential impacts to effluent limitations. Section 22.8(2)(d) was added 
to allow the addition or expansion of domestic wastewater treatment works generating reclaimed 
domestic wastewater at the same site as the secondary treatment plant (provided that the plant has prior 
site location and design approval) to proceed via the relatively simple amendment process. 
The modifications to Section 22.8(2)(e) clarify when amending a site application would apply to a change 
in the type of discharge employed. Section 22.8(2)(e) of the previous regulation concerning changes in 
discharge location has been deleted. This section was deleted because changing the discharge location 
within the same receiving water segment and within the same site does not require site location approval 
or amending a previous site location approval. However, changing the discharge point to another site, 
even within the same receiving water segment would involve constructing new domestic wastewater 
treatment works, specifically the outfall sewer, at a new site. This activity is subject to the requirements of 
section 22.4. 
Decision Making - (Section 22.9): The title of this section was changed because specific, i.e. numeric, 
criteria for decision-making are not provided. The Commission agreed with the stakeholders and the 
Division that developing specific criteria is not warranted because circumstances associated with 
constructing new or expanding treatment works or amending a site location approval vary widely. Thus, 
developing specific criteria would jeopardize the flexibility currently exercised by the Division to work 
through site location issues with applicants while still protecting public health and water quality. Section 
22.9(1)(e) was changed to be consistent with the policy in section 22.3(2)(e) as discussed above. Section 
22.9(1)(f) was changed to clearly show that the Division will consider public comment, as this has always 
been the case. Section 22.9(2)(g) was added because the ability of a proposed treatment plant to meet 
the preliminary effluent limits is one of the key factors that the Division has always considered when 
reviewing a site application. The rest of section 22.8 after subsection (1) was moved to section 22.3 
because these elements are more consistent with policy statements. 
Design Approval - (Section 22.10): This section was added so that the regulation would fully encompass 
the statutory provisions of 25-8-702 C.R.S that require approval for the design of domestic wastewater 
treatment works as well as the site location. General requirements, policy statements and procedures 
were added. The Commission decided that further detailed, specific regulatory elements were not 
needed, again because the Commission did not wish to limit the Division's flexibility to resolve design 
issues with applicants, while still protecting public health and water quality. 
Reserved - (22.11 to 22.15): These sections are reserved for potential future use.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
41 
Parties to the Rulemaking Hearing 
1. 
Air Park Metropolitan District 
2. 
Parker Water and Sanitation District 
3. 
Colorado Wastewater Utility Council 
4. 
Denver Regional Council of Governments 
22.23 
STATEMENT OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE (JULY 13, 
2009 RULEMAKING, EFFECTIVE SEPTEMBER 30, 2009) 
The provisions of sections 25-8-202 and 25-8-401, C.R.S., provide the specific statutory authority for 
adoption of these regulatory amendments. The Commission also adopted, in compliance with section 24-
4-103(4) C.R.S., the following statement of basis and purpose. 
BASIS AND PURPOSE 
Definitions, (22.2): Significant changes to the definitions include: 
“Construction” - The Commission modified the definition of construction to address the situation where the 
owner uses in-house work forces, instead of contracted work forces, to construct a domestic wastewater 
treatment works. In this situation, the Commission found it appropriate to establish the time that 
construction begins as the point where any activity described in the previous definition of construction is 
initiated. This is appropriate in order to ensure that the regulation is applied under both circumstances. 
The Commission recognizes that this would allow an entity to purchase equipment without having 
obtained site application approval which the owner would be doing at its own risk with the possibility that 
the Division would not approve the site application and/or design based on the use of such equipment. 
The Commission also broadened the last sentence to include the many forms of alternative construction 
delivery approaches that are frequently all lumped into the term “design-build.” 
“Design Capacity” - The Commission clarified the definition of design capacity to indicate that the 
proposed treatment process must be capable of reducing the concentrations of pollutants in the 
wastewater to a level that will meet the preliminary effluent limits developed in accordance with 
subsection 22.4(1)(b)(iii), rather than “effluent limits.” This is necessary to avoid confusion as to which 
effluent limits the proposed facility must be able to meet, particularly where there is an existing permit with 
limits based on different circumstances than those on which the preliminary effluent limits for the 
proposed facility are based. The Commission also deleted the provision that design capacity could be 
based on the capability of the proposed facility to treat another pollutant such as ammonia. The 
Commission found that this provision could have applied to organic and inorganic pollutants other than 
ammonia and that the depth of analysis required to ensure that the capacity is based on the most limiting 
pollutant would be overwhelming. The Commission understands that the Division will ensure that the 
proposed facility is able to treat the expected loading of pollutants such as ammonia during the design 
review process. 
“Expansion” - The Commission simplified the definition of expansion and modified the provision regarding 
in-kind replacement given that a definition of “in-kind replacement” has been added to the regulation. The 
Commission clarified the definition of expansion to specify that an expansion must be addressed in a 
discharge permit amendment in order to revise existing discharge permit effluent limitations.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
42 
“In-Kind Replacement” - The Commission added a definition of “in-kind replacement” based on 
recommendations by stakeholders who were concerned that replacement of a piece of equipment (e.g., 
an aerator) with a similar piece of equipment with a slightly higher rating was being required to obtain site 
approval by the Division. The Commission recognizes that replacement of equipment or a structure is not 
an exact science due to the fact that exact models may no longer be available or that construction 
methods may have changed such that use of current common practice would result in a slightly different 
structure being built. The Commission intends the use of the term “similar” in the definition to provide 
flexibility for the owner of a domestic wastewater treatment works to replace older equipment with modern 
versions that may be more efficient or to have one of several units at a higher rated capacity to provide a 
“factor of safety.” The Commission intends to allow replacement or technology upgrades to qualify as in-
kind replacement as long as the original intent of the unit process being renovated is not changed (e.g., 
replacing a bar screen with a fine screen). The Commission expects that in-kind replacement will 
generally be limited to situations where equipment/structure failure occurs or where the expected design 
life has been reached and removing the equipment /structure is prudent to ensure continued compliance. 
The Commission does not intend for replacement “in-kind” of several critical pieces of equipment or 
structures to be used as a means of achieving a significant increase in the DWWTW capacity that could 
then be realized through the amendment process under section 22.8. Under these circumstances, the 
entity should be required to seek such increase(s) through the facility expansion process at section 22.5. 
The Commission understands that interpretation of these situations will require judgment and expects the 
Division and facility owners to work together to find common sense solutions under these circumstances. 
“Preliminary Effluent Limitations (PELs)” - The Commission revised the definition of preliminary effluent 
limitations (PELs) to clarify that they are to be used to guide the treatment needs for the alternatives to be 
considered for evaluation as well as for the selected alternative that is proposed in the site application. 
The Commission also deleted the reference to PELs being developed in support of a permit application to 
clarify that PELs are used in the site application process. 
“Vault” - The Commission revised the definition of “vault” to make it more consistent with the definition in 
the Individual Sewage Disposal System Guidelines. 
The Commission revised the provisions of subsection 22.3(1)(b) to delete the reference to a discharge 
permit as it is the preliminary effluent limits developed in accordance with subsection 22.4(1)(b)(iii) that 
set the appropriate effluent quality requirements for the site application planning process. 
The Commission revised the provisions of subsection 22.3(1)(c) to allow consolidation to be determined 
infeasible based on any one of the identified criteria. Given that the statute requires the Division to 
“encourage” consolidation, the Commission found it appropriate to make this change since a consolidated 
project should arguably have advantages over separate projects in all of these areas. This change is not 
intended to diminish the consideration the Division must give to a 208 plan that specifies a consolidated 
facility. 
The Commission revised the provisions of subsection 22.3(8) to add a goal for the Division to complete 
review of site applications in a total of sixty days. The Commission finds it is appropriate to state a 
general expectation for the review of site applications given that the facilities for which approval is being 
requested are critical to the protection of public health and environment as well as to the financial well-
being of the applicant. The Commission recognizes that not all applications are complete upon initial 
submittal to the Division and that the sixty day goal does not include time during which the applicant is 
developing responses to Division comments. 
The Commission increased the default period before an approved site application expires in subsection 
22.3(12) to eighteen months based on the Division’s experience that completing the design , Division 
review of the design and obtaining other approvals/easements can take up to eighteen months.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
43 
The Commission revised the provisions of section 22.4(1)(b)(iii) to clarify that the applicant can indicate 
that it intends to meet preliminary effluent limits for metals, organic parameters, and inorganic 
parameters, other than for total residual chlorine, by controlling sources to the collection system through a 
pretreatment program rather than through planned domestic wastewater treatment. The Commission 
found this to be appropriate since, where concentrations of these parameters would exceed the 
preliminary effluent limit, domestic wastewater treatment entities usually meet such limits through control 
of sources rather than installing treatment to remove them. The Commission also provided the option for 
the applicant to indicate that limits for these parameters can be met with no specific controls on sources 
to the collection system. 
The Commission included in subsection 22.4(1)(b)(iii) a provision to clarify, where a temporary 
modification for a parameter has been adopted pursuant to subsection 31.7(3)(a)(iii) of the Basic 
Standards and Methodologies for Surface Waters (Basic Standards) for metals, organic parameters 
and/or inorganic parameters, other than for total residual chlorine, that preliminary effluent limits for 
existing or proposed discharges will be set based on the provisions of subsection 31.14(15)(a) of the 
Basic Standards. The Commission required PELs for new facilities proposing to discharge to segments 
where a temporary modification has been adopted pursuant to subsection 31.7(3)(a)(i) of the Basic 
Standards to be based on the underlying standard. 
The Commission also modified subsection 22.5(2)(b) to reference the provisions at subsection 
22.4(1)(b)(iii) with an exception, where a temporary modification has been adopted pursuant to 
subsection 31.7(3)(a)(i), that the Division may defer the requirement to treat for the parameter to a 
compliance schedule to be included in the permit. The Commission adopted this provision with the 
understanding that the Division will use this option in limited circumstances such as where the treatment 
necessary meet a PEL based on the underlying standard would require technology such as reverse 
osmosis. 
The Commission revised the provisions of subsection 22.4(1)(b)(vii) to delete the requirement for a site 
specific geotechnical investigation and report for the site of the alternative and proposed treatment works 
during the site location approval application phase of the project. In making a determination as to the 
suitability of the proposed site to support the proposed facility, the applicant may use existing 
geotechnical data and information that is considered to be representative of anticipated site conditions in 
lieu of a site-specific geotechnical investigation and report. At the applicant’s option, a site-specific 
geotechnical investigation and report may be accomplished and submitted in support of the site location 
approval application. 
The Commission found the requirement for a site-specific subsurface soil and/or geological and 
geotechnical investigation to be overly burdensome to applicants at the planning phase. Some 
communities do not have the financial resources at the site location application stage of the project to 
support what may be a design phase level of evaluation and investigation. Funding from sources such as 
the Revolving Loan Fund and/or Department of Local Affairs has not necessarily been completed at the 
site location application phase of the project. 
The Division may require a site-specific geotechnical investigation in the design phase of the project to be 
submitted at the time of review of the process design report. If the applicant submits a site-specific 
geotechnical investigation report with the site location approval application, such a site-specific 
geotechnical report will not be required with the process design report. Similar changes were made to 
subsection 22.5(3). 
The Commission added new section 22.4(1)(b)(xiv) to include the requirement to develop an emergency 
operations plan to demonstrate that a new domestic wastewater treatment works owner has a level of 
emergency operations capability. Policy 96-1, Design Criteria Considered in the Review of Wastewater 
Treatment Facilities, provides expectations for facilities such as emergency power or emergency 
wastewater storage where an equipment or power failure could cause discharge of partially treated or raw 
wastewater.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
44 
The Commission added new subsection 22.4(1)(d) to clarify the minimum information necessary to 
ensure shared capacity in a treatment facility. This information was previously included in guidance only. 
This requirement is not intended to limit the expansion of a facility service area in the future. 
The Commission added new subsection 22.4(1)(e) to clarify that service areas must be consistent with 
those described in the water quality management plan. The Commission made mandatory this aspect of 
consideration of the water quality management plan in the Division’s decision making process as it is 
critical, for planning and facility sizing purposes, to have confidence in the service area designation and 
that information is best taken from the water quality management plan. 
The Commission revised section 22.5 to address requests for decreases in design capacity for instances 
where construction has taken place or will take place. Prior to this revision, the language in section 22.5 
was specific to expansions (increases in the approved design capacity) although section 22.5 was the 
only means for the Division to evaluate and process requests for a reduction in the approved design 
capacity for a wastewater treatment works where construction was or would be involved. The revisions to 
the language remedy this issue and will help to clarify the requirements associated with a request for a 
reduction in the design capacity of a wastewater treatment works, 
The Commission added new subsection 22.7(1)(j) to section 22.7(1) to include the requirement to 
develop an emergency operations plan to demonstrate that a new domestic wastewater treatment works 
owner has a level of emergency operations capability. Policy 96-1, Design Criteria Considered in the 
Review of Wastewater Treatment Facilities, provides expectations for facilities such as emergency power, 
portable pumping, or emergency wastewater storage where an equipment or power failure could cause 
discharge of partially treated or raw wastewater. 
The Commission revised the provisions of section 22.8(1) to provide the Division authority to require an 
application for treatment plant expansion in cases where a significant increase in capacity is being 
requested based on one or more in-kind replacements. The Commission, in the new definition of in-kind 
replacement, has provided significant flexibility to treatment plant owners to replace structures and 
equipment with larger units. Where a significant increase in capacity has resulted from such 
replacement(s), the Commission finds it appropriate that the site application go through the full local 
review process consistent with the requirements for a facility expansion. However, since this request for 
capacity increase would be based on already-constructed facilities, the Commission exempted the 
applicant from submitting the implementation plan and schedule and geotechnical information otherwise 
required under subsections 22.5(2)(f) and 22.5(3), respectively. 
The Commission revised the provisions of newly designated subsection 22.8(2)(b)(vii) to include pilot 
projects and full scale demonstration projects (e.g., odor control at a lift station). This is appropriate in 
order to allow testing to confirm the expected performance of technology to be conducted under the 
amendment process that has a quicker agency coordination and review process. The Commission limited 
the period of authorization for pilot/demonstration projects to one year or as determined by the Division 
after which time continuing use of the facilities will require approval of a site application and design 
documents.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
45 
The Commission added a new section 22.10 in conjunction with the new definition of in-kind replacement 
to require Division notification of certain in-kind replacements and to clarify that these replacements must 
be limited to the previously approved site unless the Division waives the requirement for a new site 
application. The Commission finds this to be appropriate in order give the Division the opportunity to 
confirm the replacement meets the requirements of in-kind and to keep the Division appraised of changes 
to the DWWTW. This will allow the Division to respond to inquiries from third parties and to be familiar 
with the current configuration of the treatment works in the event that an amendment is sought. The 
Commission emphasizes the intent of this provision is to allow replacement of equipment in an 
emergency or as part of normal operation and maintenance. If there is any doubt on the part of the owner 
that the replacement may not meet the definition of “in-kind”, the Commission strongly encourages the 
owner to contact the Division in advance to confirm that the replacement will not be determined to be 
outside of the definition requiring an after the fact site application approval. The Commission exempted 
several types of replacement from the requirement to notify the Division, including replacement with the 
same piece of equipment or structure as well as other types of replacement that would not necessarily 
affect the operational capability or capacity of the treatment works. This will limit the types of notification 
to those that have the potential to affect the capacity of the treatment works or its capability to operate in 
a manner necessary to meet its intended performance requirements. The Commission clarified that 
revisions to the regulation are intended to apply prospectively only; therefore, in-kind replacements 
occurring before the effective date of the revised regulation are not subject to the notification 
requirements in section 22.10. 
The Commission revised the provisions of subsection 22.11(1) to 
(1) 
Add detail defining the elements of the design review process; 
(2) 
Provide an exclusion from the definition of construction after site location approval has been 
obtained to allow initial site preparation work such as access roads to the site, site clearing, and 
dewatering of the site prior to approval of the design. The Commission finds it appropriate to 
allow these activities to be initiated prior to approval of the design in order to provide a project 
proponent flexibility to conduct this work while design documents are being finalized. The 
Commission limited this option to work that would not be specifically related to the proposed 
design in order to prevent construction of aspects of the design such as site excavation, 
installation of pipe galleries, etc. as it is appropriate for these elements of the project to be 
constructed after approval of the design has been obtained; and 
(3) 
Add an option for a streamlined design review process for domestic wastewater treatment plants. 
This process requires Division review and approval of the process design report (PDR) that 
includes the calculations and other technical information to justify the proposed treatment units 
and represents a level of design of approximately 60%. The option for streamlined review will 
provide an applicant with the flexibility to save time within its overall project schedule by self-
certifying the final design rather than submitting the full set of drawings and specifications to the 
Division for review. The streamlined procedure will allow Division staff to focus on the pertinent 
process design and permit compliance considerations presented in the PDR. The Commission 
finds that Division review and approval of the PDR, coupled with certification by the registered 
professional design engineer that the final construction drawings and specifications are consistent 
with the PDR and the design criteria is an efficient design review alternative for both Division staff 
and the applicant in certain circumstances.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
46 
The Commission excluded from the streamlined process designs proposing inclusion of a new technology 
not covered by the State’s design criteria policies or guidance as well as projects where the conditions of 
receipt of funding require that the final design documents be reviewed and approved by the Division. In 
the case of new technology, the Commission finds that these proposals require a full Division review to 
assure that the proposed combination of treatment processes can be operated in a manner that will result 
in consistent compliance with the effluent limitations. Projects funded under the state revolving loan 
program and similar public sources may require a full review of the final design documents and 
construction inspections to ensure all facilities, including non-process treatment components, are installed 
and functional. The Commission excluded such projects from the streamlined design review process to 
avoid conflicts that may jeopardize such funding. The Commission included an explicit provision that 
requires the project owner to make modifications as directed by the Division where it is discovered that 
treatment plant construction is not consistent with the PDR, design criteria, and approved variances. The 
Commission intends that this provision provide the Division with the authority and flexibility to address 
situations where post-construction inspections discover inconsistencies that could affect the treatment 
plant’s ability to be properly operated, maintained, or to meet required effluent limits. 
Because the Division has historically utilized a consolidated site application/design review process for lift 
stations and interceptors, the design review procedure for these structures is unaffected by the new 
streamlined process. 
Reserved – (22.12 to 22.15): These sections are reserved for potential future use. 
Parties to the Rulemaking Hearing 
1. 
Metro Wastewater Reclamation District 2. North Front Range Water Quality Planning 
Association3. Pueblo West Metropolitan District4. Pikes Peak Area Council of Governments5. 
City of Pueblo6. Denver Regional Council of Governments7. Colorado Springs Utilities8. JDS 
Hydro Consultants, Inc.9. Widefield Water and Sanitation District10. Denver Water 
22.24 
STATEMENT OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE (MARCH 9, 
2020 RULEMAKING, APRIL 13, 2020 FINAL ACTION, EFFECTIVE DATE JUNE 14, 2020) 
The provisions of sections 25-8-202 and 25-8-401, C.R.S., provide the specific statutory authority for 
adoption of these regulatory amendments. The Commission also adopted, in compliance with section 24-
4-103(4) C.R.S., the following statement of basis and purpose. 
BASIS AND PURPOSE 
The Commission largely adopted changes to this regulation developed through a Division-led stakeholder 
process that was formed after the informational hearing held by the Commission in May 2018. The 
stakeholder process consisted of five sub work groups and one main work group that included numerous 
interested parties. The five sub work groups provided recommendations to the main work group and 
Division for consideration. The changes within this regulatory update are best summarized based on the 
focus areas of the sub work groups: general consistency and clean up, design capacity, onsite 
wastewater treatment systems (OWTS), pilot and full scale demonstrations, and lift stations and 
interceptors.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
47 
Consistency and Clarifications 
There were numerous minor changes made to improve clarity and address inconsistencies in the 
previous regulation. Substantive changes are summarized and discussed below. The Water Quality 
Control Commission (Commission) decided that the definitions of “domestic wastewater treatment works”, 
“management agency”, and “construction” required modification to align with the Colorado Water Quality 
Control Act (Act) and the Federal Clean Water Act. The Commission corrected the definition for 
construction based on a previous error that resulted in the inadvertent deletion of a provision in the 
definition. The Commission revised the definition for domestic wastewater treatment works (“DWWTWs”) 
to refer to systems or facilities that receive greater than two thousand gallons of domestic wastewater per 
day, consistent with the definition included in the Colorado Water Quality Control Act. The Commission 
also corrected the definition of “management agency” to clarify that, pursuant section 208 of the Clean 
Water Act, entities other than municipalities may be designated as management agencies. 
Design capacity refers to hydraulic and organic capacities. The Commission decided to continue to use 
organic capacity as a measure of the overall influent wastewater strength since organic loading typically 
relates well to the overall strength of the wastewater. The Commission does recognize that domestic 
wastewater treatment works treat to achieve a variety of water quality and health based targets, but did 
not try to list all potential water quality planning targets as part of design capacity. 
Following the 2013 floods in the State of Colorado, concerns arose that the site location and design 
application processes were lengthy, and did not consider the need for accelerated review of domestic 
infrastructure construction following emergencies. The Commission added a provision at Section 22.4(13) 
providing for an accelerated review and evaluation process for certain emergency events. In using the 
term “emergency,” the Commission intends that the accelerated process primarily be available to those 
facilities needing to complete accelerated construction related to natural disasters (such as the 2013 
floods). However, the Commission recognizes that there may be certain unforeseen extreme events that 
may necessitate accelerated review. An example of an unforeseen extreme events might be a fire or 
explosion at a domestic wastewater treatment works that impacts the DWWTW’s ability to comply with 
effluent limits. An unforeseen extreme event is not intended to include perceived emergencies related to 
planning or implementation of compliance schedules, construction schedules, enforcement orders, or 
funding deadlines. In qualified unforeseen extreme events, the Commission expects that the Division will 
promptly review an application for accelerated review and determine, based on the case-specific facts, 
whether the circumstances warrant accelerated review for site location and design. The adopted process 
balances the need for an expedited review and implementation while maintaining local input. A fifteen 
(15) day local agency notification is required and would supersede other longer referral periods currently 
identified within the individual sections of Regulation 22. Any person aggrieved by the decision would still 
have appeal rights per section 22.4 and 22.13 of this regulation. 
The Commission recognizes that natural surface waters may shift over time based on flow patterns. At 
times, the constructed outfall may need to be moved or extended to connect with the surface water. 
These moves or extensions may still fall within the approved site and stream segments. The Commission 
provided the Division the decision making authority to determine whether these outfall modifications 
require site location and design approval. 
The Commission revised the definition of “lift station” to resolve a potential point of confusion with the 
Colorado Water Quality Control Act. The previous “lift station” definition stated that lift stations “for single 
family residences or clusters of five or fewer single family residences or other small buildings, as long as 
they receive less than two thousand gallons per day of domestic wastewater” are not domestic 
wastewater treatment works. This phrase appeared to be redundant with the requirements of a domestic 
wastewater treatment works, but also gave the impression that lift stations for small residential clusters 
were not domestic wastewater treatment works regardless of the amount of wastewater each receives. 
The Commission deleted this phrase to prevent confusion. The definition of domestic wastewater 
treatment works already clearly delineates whether each lift station falls within the framework of this 
regulation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
48 
The Commission developed a term “water quality planning target” to better clarify the development of 
treatment targets since effluent limits do not always apply. For example, the Commission recognizes that 
facilities generating reclaimed water do not have effluent limits and in some cases, these facilities have 
health based treatment requirements. For these reasons the term preliminary effluent limits is now a 
subset of a broader term “water quality planning target”. This new term encompasses all types of 
treatment goals, whether effluent limits or health based treatment requirements. 
The previous site location amendment section only required the applicant to fill out a form. This form did 
not adequately enable the Division or review agencies to evaluate amendment applications in accordance 
with all required elements of sections 22.3, 22.4, 22.5, and 22.10 of the site location process. The 
Commission remedied this situation by more clearly defining the minimum amendment submittal 
requirements as part of section 22.10. The minimum requirements specifically require an engineering 
report that addresses the requirements of 22.3, 22.4, 22.5, and 22.10, and other information necessary to 
evaluate the amendment application. 
The Commission streamlined the design review process for domestic wastewater treatment plants under 
most conditions. Previously, all applications for domestic wastewater treatment plants underwent a two-
step design review process that required the Division to approve final plans and specifications with the 
option for applicants to self-certify the final plans and specifications. The Commission modified the final 
plans and specifications application and approval step to streamline the process by having all applicants 
and their engineers self-certify the final plans and specifications for construction unless the Division 
indicates otherwise during the site location application process because of specific circumstances such 
as funding or implementation of alternative technologies. For example, a submittal that includes an 
alternative technology may require final plans and specifications approval by the Division in lieu of self-
certification by the applicant and their engineer. 
The Commission understands the Division’s intent to develop a single document that describes all site 
location and design approval elements and conditions for each facility owned and operated by a single 
entity. This single document would then be updated upon any future site location and design approvals. 
Once instituted, this document would be critical for the Division and each entity to maintain within its 
records. Since this document has not been developed or implemented at this time, the Commission 
recommends that the Division revisit records retention requirements for this document with future routine 
reviews of Regulation 22. 
The Commission revised provisions related to in-kind replacement to clarify the difference between a 
modification requiring a site location amendment application, an in-kind site location application, or no 
application since the modification qualifies as operations and maintenance. The primary clarifications 
focus on the following: 1) in-kind replacement is intended for a structure or piece of equipment and not a 
unit treatment process that has the potential to impact the solids or liquid stream design capacities; 2) in-
kind replacements applications may include more than one structure or piece of equipment as part of the 
notification; and 3) the minimum information required as part of an in-kind notification. Additionally, the in-
kind language clarifies that an in-kind application is not available for 1) components that have not yet 
received site location and design approval and 2) when a technology change requires a substantially 
different design criteria. An example of item 2 would be the replacement of a chemical disinfection system 
with an ultraviolet light disinfection system. 
The Commission recognizes that a 15-day response from the Division for in-kind replacements is a 
difficult target considering that the evaluation of in-kind notifications is not typically a straight forward 
review and often requires additional correspondence with the applicant. The Commission revised this 
early 15-day target with a 30-day goal that better represents the level of effort required for an in-kind 
evaluation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
49 
The submittal requirements for amendments (Section 22.10) now include changes to the liquid stream 
that may impact biosolids. The Commission felt that this change was necessary due to the increased use 
of recovery systems and biological nutrient removal for phosphorus. Biological phosphorus treatment may 
require modifications to solids treatment processes that currently are considered with the Design Criteria 
for Domestic Wastewater Treatment Works. As part of the recent steps toward nutrient treatment 
improvements, the Commission established technology based effluent limits that encouraged the use of 
more sustainable biological treatment systems over primary reliance on chemical treatment systems. 
Biological nutrient treatment changes the characteristics of the biosolids requiring changes to the solids 
treatment and handling systems. In response, the Commission broadened the scope of site location 
amendments related to solids treatment processes. 
Design Capacity 
As part of the rulemaking, the Commission made changes to section 22.2, “Definitions”. The Commission 
made changes to the definitions of ‘design capacity’ and ‘preliminary effluent limits’ and added a new term 
‘water quality planning target’.  The definition of ‘design capacity’ was modified to provide more clarity and 
readability. The change was not intended to modify the existing meaning except for needed changes 
related to on-site wastewater treatment systems. - 
The Commission added a new term “water quality planning target,” and (in Regulation 61) removed 
requirements to submit a site application prior to submitting a permit application. Several different 
documents can serve as WQPTs. The discharger is encouraged to provide the documents which may 
serve as the WQPTs, and any supporting information or rationale for selecting it for the WQPT. Following 
this rulemaking, the Division will develop guidance with criteria and a process flow chart for when existing 
permits, WQAs, existing PELs, and/or limited scope PELs can be used as a Water Quality Planning 
Target, and when new PELs are needed. The guidance will also specify a process, including applicable 
timeframes, whereby the Division notifies the applicant what Water Quality Planning Target will be used 
for a site application. 
With these changes, many facilities will be able to forego the step of obtaining PELs and can instead use 
their permits or permit modifications as Water Quality Planning Targets. This is the process used in most 
other states and can offer permittees more planning certainty and the Regulation 61.5 notice and 
comment processes unavailable for PELs. 
These changes are part of an overall process at the Division to help domestic facilities, who need site 
approval, obtain needed planning limitations in a more timely fashion. Other pieces of this new process 
include better internal coordination; prioritizing PELs needed for site approvals over PELs requested for 
more long term planning; conducting more timely “limited scope PELs” for nutrients and temperature 
when appropriate; removing requirements to complete PELs in permit compliance schedules; and 
establishing an internal goal of issuance in 180 days from payment for some domestic PELs. The Division 
has established an internal goal of 180 days for domestic PELs that meet all of the following criteria: 
1. 
the Division has determined that PELs are needed for submitted site approval requests 
(rather than an existing Water Quality Planning Target, like a permit or WQA); and 
2. 
the facility cannot use the “permit-first” or “permit modification-first” approach. 
An example of the last criteria would be if the permit is administratively continued and cannot be modified 
and is not likely to be renewed in the next year. In order to meet this internal deadline for facilities 
modelled with other facilities, the Division would not reopen WQAs, meaning that the facility’s share of the 
assimilative capacity would remain the same and the PEL may be considered overly conservative.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
50 
The commission also changed the definition of PELs to reflect that when the Division does not meet its 
goal of 180 days for the PELs meeting the criteria above, the applicant may submit PELs for the 
Division’s review and approval. Specifically, if the Division will not be able to complete PELs within 180 
days, the Division will notify the applicant within 120 days after the PEL request (or earlier); and confer 
and share information with the applicant so that the applicant and its consultant can prepare PELs for the 
Division’s review and approval. In preparing its guidance on PELs and Water quality planning targets, the 
Division will consider ways to ensure applicant-prepared PELs can retain the same priority of review they 
held before being taken on by the applicant. 
At times, an applicant that has received site location approval, but has not received design approval, 
needs to modify the approved design capacity. The Commission has includes notifications provisions 
specific for this type of request. 
Onsite Wastewater Treatment Systems 
Since the last Regulation #22 update, the legislature updated the OWTS statute. In response, the 
Commission repealed the “Guidelines on Individual Sewage Disposal” and developed Regulation #43 
“Onsite Wastewater Treatment System Regulation”. Furthermore, the Commission modified references 
throughout Regulation 22 from “individual sewage disposal systems (ISDS)” and “Guidelines on Individual 
Sewage Disposal Systems” (formerly 5 CCR 1003-6) to “on-site wastewater treatment systems (OWTS)” 
and “Regulation 43 – On-site Wastewater Treatment Systems” (5 CCR 1002-43) to reflect the changes 
resulting from the 2012 modifications to the governing statutes in the Colorado On-site Wastewater 
Treatment Systems Act, C.R.S., 25-10-101, et seq. 
To further coordinate the latest revisions to the OWTS statute, Regulation #43, and Regulation #22, the 
Commission added the definition of “sewage treatment works” from the Colorado On-site Wastewater 
Treatment Systems Act, C.R.S., 25-10-101, et seq. as this term is used in the definition of “on-site 
wastewater treatment systems (OWTS)” also derived from the Colorado On-site Wastewater Treatment 
Systems Act, C.R.S., 25-10-101, et seq. 
The Commission added clarifying language within Regulation #22 for facilities seeking a decrease in the 
approved, rated design capacity of an existing domestic wastewater treatment works with groundwater 
discharge to a design capacity of 2,000 gpd or less to allow permitting through the local public health 
agency and local regulations developed pursuant to Regulation #43 – On-site Wastewater Treatment 
System Regulation. The added portions provide clarifying language for facilities derating either with or 
without construction and clarifies the steps required for a facility seeking this type of derating. A facility 
derating in this manner will be required to file a site location application to derate the capacity of the 
domestic wastewater treatment works but the separate design review step will not be required by 
Regulation #22 since the design will then be reviewed by the local public health agency. 
At times, the applicant may have to implement source water controls to achieve and maintain a design 
capacity less than or equal to 2,000 gallons per day. In these cases, derating to less than or equal to 
2,000 gpd will require demonstration through ongoing flow metering and monitoring by the local public 
health agency if conditioned as part of the site location application. The Commission requires that the 
applicant verify that the local public health agency is willing to accept this responsibility as part of the site 
location application.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
51 
Pilots and Full-scale Demonstrations 
The Commission added separate definitions for “pilot project” and “demonstration project”. While these 
two terms are similar, the scale, permanency, and potential water quality impacts differ significantly. Pilot 
projects are related to small-scale, momentary investigations like bench top studies or vendor equipment 
proofs that may have no potential to cause or contribute to a water quality exceedance or are not needed 
for data related to state applications. Similarly, process optimization activities of existing, approved 
infrastructure at a facility are considered pilots even if operated at full-scale. Demonstrations are larger-
scale, longer term projects that have the potential to cause or contribute to a water quality exceedance or 
may be needed to develop data for a state application such as an alternative technology review. These 
definitions help guide whether a site location application is required prior to commencement of the pilot or 
demonstration. 
The Commission modified sections related to amendments and demonstration or pilot projects, to clarify 
that applicants should, in consultation with the Division, evaluate whether to submit a discharge permit 
amendment or a Request for Chemical Evaluation form. Consultation with the Division is meant to assist 
applicants in deciding whether these submissions are required, but is not mandatory. Applicants may 
instead elect to submit a discharge permit modification or a Request for Chemical Evaluation form without 
advance consultation. In this hearing, the commission considered a proposal from a party to the hearing 
to require a deadline for the Division’s review of the Chemical Evaluation form. Based on testimony that 
the Division has generally reviewed this expediently in the past and the review time has not been an issue 
for permittees in the past, the Commission declined to adopt a deadline, however in the event that 
circumstances change the Commission could revisit the possibility of a deadline in the future. 
Demonstration projects are necessary for systems to evaluate the efficacy of alternative treatment 
processes or enable the collection of data for the development of design criteria. Previously, 
demonstration projects were reviewed using a site location amendment process. The Commission 
adopted a new section, Section 22.11, addressing application procedures for demonstration projects. The 
Commission found that handling pilots and full-scale demonstrations as amendments resulted in 
confusion. For example, site location amendments are permanent site location changes that require site 
location and design review, fees, and notifications. Alternatively, demonstrations have a term limited 
implementation unless a separate site location amendment and design approval occurs at a later date. In 
addition, demonstrations do not receive a design approval or require review fees prior to commencement 
of operation. The use of a new section allows for separation of site location amendments and 
demonstration reviews. 
Section 22.11 defines the procedures for applying for demonstration projects, including the type of 
documentation needed to apply for a demonstration project. The Commission did not require notifications 
to review agencies since each demonstration project approval has a finite timeline not to exceed two 
years. This timeframe was modified from the previous allowance for a one year demonstration with the 
option for a one year extension to streamline the review process. In addition, the Commission authorizes 
the Division to extend demonstrations past 2 years when the entity is actively seeking site location and 
design approval for the demonstration infrastructure and process. 
Lift Stations and Interceptors 
The Commission modified sections pertaining to interceptors, lift stations, and amendments to clarify the 
requirements and implement flexibilities for lift stations and interceptor site location and design approval 
applications. The modifications resulted in separate dedicated sections for interceptors (section 22.8) and 
lift stations (section 22.9), and provided details on circumstances when an entity could apply for a site 
location amendment for lift stations (Section 22.10) which did not previously exist.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
 
5 CCR 1002-22 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
52 
In addition, the Commission recognizes that older facilities may exist but do not have a record of a site 
location or design approval for interceptors and lift stations. The Commission finds that the site location 
and design review processes have an important role in the protection of public health and the 
environment with public input. Existing infrastructure that cannot demonstrate site location and design 
approval may pose an increased risk to public health and the environment even if ongoing operations and 
maintenance has prevented any single event violations. While a risk exists, the Commission perceives 
that the risk will remain relatively stable until a solution can be found. Furthermore, the Commission 
understands the need to provide additional time for the Division and stakeholders to more fully research 
the extent of the issue and develop consensus around a regulatory and implementation framework to 
rectify any risks related to historical lift stations and interceptors that cannot demonstrate site location and 
design approval. The Commission expects the Division to work with stakeholders to develop a proposal to 
bring historical infrastructure into compliance with Regulation #22 by the next triennial review. The 
Commission does not intend the delayed approach to encourage the construction of infrastructure prior to 
Division approval, nor does the Commission intend for the resulting framework to reward recent 
construction of unauthorized facilities. As a result, the Commission expects that the approach will be a 
one-time process that only applies to lift stations and interceptors that commenced construction 
significantly before this rulemaking. 
The Commission recognized that the current site location regulations lumped lift stations and interceptors 
into a single section. Having these two works in a single section resulted in confusion for stakeholders. 
Section 22.8 covers both interceptors that are eligible for certification as defined in 25-8-702(3) C.R.S. 
and interceptors that are required to follow the standard application procedure. The text was modified to 
clarify the site location application procedure requirements. Similarly, section 22.9 was modified to cover 
the site location application review process for lift stations only. 
The Commission recognized that the current site location application does not include an amendment 
process for lift stations. Section 22.10 for site location amendments was modified to include 
circumstances where an amendment process could be utilized for lift stations. The language addresses 
several improvements to a lift station that do not affect capacity. The Commission did not find a need to 
include an amendment process for interceptors since changes to an interceptor would most likely require 
a 22.8 or 22.12 application. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Sections 22.1 – 22.11, 22.23 eff. 09/30/2009. 
Entire rule eff. 06/14/2020.
