---
id: "5_CCR_1006-3"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "5 CCR 1006-3"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=9604&fileName=5%20CCR%201006-3&type=pdf"
---

#### 5_CCR_1006-3. 5 CCR 1006-3

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
Center for Health and Environmental Data 
ADVANCED DIRECTIVES REGISTRY 
5 CCR 1006-3 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Adopted by the Board of Health on May 19, 2021, effective July 15, 2021. 
I. 
General Purpose for Establishing Rules and Regulations 
The general purpose of this regulation is for the Colorado Department of Public Health and 
Environment (herein referred to as CDPHE) to facilitate the creation of a statewide electronic 
registry of Advance Directives, pursuant to Section, 25-54-101 of the Colorado Revised Statutes. 
II. 
Definitions 
The following terms, whenever used in or referred to in these regulations, shall have the following 
respective meanings, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context: 
1. 
“Advance Care Planning (ACP)” means the process of an individual learning about, 
making, and documenting decisions to be implemented in the event of a medical crisis or 
a need for end-of-life care. 
2. 
“Advance Health Care Directive” or “Advance Directive” means a legal document in which 
an individual specifies their wishes relating to medical treatment, cardiopulmonary 
resuscitation, or medical durable power of attorney, per the requirements established in § 
25-54-101.1(a), CRS. These documents include, but are not necessarily limited to: 
i. 
Medical Orders for Scope of Treatment (MOST) or Physicians’ Orders for Life-
Sustaining Treatment (POLST): A type of Advance Directive that summarizes 
and consolidates information about an adult patient’s preferences for life-
sustaining treatment including CPR, medical intervention, and artificially 
administered nutrition; 
ii. 
Behavioral Health Orders for Scope of Treatment: A document that outlines an 
individual’s instructions concerning behavioral health treatment, medication, and 
preferences; 
iii. 
Living Will (including a properly executed Five Wishes form): A document that 
instructs providers regarding artificial life support; 
iv. 
Medical Durable Power of Attorney: A document that allows individuals to appoint 
a health care agent to make decisions on their behalf and grants access to 
medical records; 
v. 
CPR Directive: A medical order that instructs providers not to resuscitate if an 
individual’s heart should stop; 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1006-3 
Center for Health and Environmental Data 
 
2 
vi. 
Any Advance Directive document properly executed in another state, including a 
Physician’s Order for Life Sustaining Treatment (POLST) or Medical Order for 
Life Sustaining Treatment (MOLST). 
3. 
“Advance Directive Registry” (ADR or “Registry”) means the system of Advance Directive 
documents being established in § 25-54-101.1(a), CRS. This system specifically 
references the statewide registry being established through the relevant legislation, and 
does not reference other organizational or regional registries that may include health 
directives. 
4. 
An “Authorized Surrogate Decision Maker” (or “authorized surrogate”) means a person 
appointed pursuant to the means stated in § 25-54-101.2, CRS. 
5. 
A “Qualified Provider” (or “Provider”) is a person or entity that may use or disclose 
protected health information in accordance with guidelines under the federal Health 
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), as amended, including all 
accompanying regulations. For the purposes of these rules, a Qualified Provider includes 
any staff member at a HIPAA-covered entity who has approval from their HIPAA-covered 
employer to access patient Protected Health Information (PHI), where the covered entity 
has a treatment relationship with the patient whose Advance Directives are being 
uploaded or accessed in the Registry. 
6. 
A “Qualified Individual” is a person or entity authorized to access the Registry. Qualified 
Individuals include both Qualified Providers (as defined above) and individual patients 
and their authorized surrogate decision maker who have Advance Directive documents 
existing in the Registry. 
7. 
A “Health Information Organization Network” means a Colorado organization that has 
experience overseeing and governing Health Information Exchange among organizations 
according to state and federal law. 
III. 
Criteria for Qualified Individuals to Have Access to the System and Advance Medical 
Directives 
1. 
HIPAA-covered entities (i.e., hospitals, health systems, clinics, etc.) may designate criteria for 
qualified individuals to access the Registry following the organizational policies for staff accessing 
patients’ medical records and Protected Health Information (PHI). Entities must ensure that only 
appropriate staff members access the system. These staff members are considered Qualified 
Providers in the context of these rules, as defined above. 
2. 
A Qualified Provider is not required to enter into an HIE Services Agreement with a state-
recognized HIE in order to access the Registry. Instead, a Qualified Provider need only comply 
with the access requirements outlined in this rule and the associated statute, and any contractual 
obligations required to facilitate access to the Registry. 
3. 
Individuals (i.e., patients or their authorized surrogate decision makers) may access the Registry 
to view and verify their Advance Directive documents. Only a Qualified Provider may upload or 
remove documents from the Registry. 
IV. 
Criteria in Which an Electronic Affidavit is Required 
1. 
An Electronic Affidavit, signed by the individual or their authorized surrogate, is required for newly 
executed documents that require both individual and authorized provider signature. These 
documents include a Colorado Medical Order for Scope of Treatment (MOST) form/Physician 
Orders for Life-Sustaining Treatment (POLST) form, and a Colorado CPR Directive.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1006-3 
Center for Health and Environmental Data 
 
3 
i. 
Existing, executed documents do not require a new Electronic Affidavit. These 
documents may be uploaded to the Registry following the procedures outlined below. 
ii. 
It is not required for signatures from the individual and the authorized provider be 
collected simultaneously. 
iii. 
In situations in which an Electronic Affidavit is required, individuals may submit the 
affidavit either through the Registry or by electronic or physical signature. If an affidavit is 
signed outside of the Registry, it must be submitted to the Qualified Provider via physical 
mail, email, or fax. It is the responsibility of the individual to ensure that their affidavit has 
been received by the Qualified Provider and appropriately uploaded to the Registry. 
2. 
Other documents that pertain to advance care planning, but do not require physician signature, 
require only a patient signature (electronic or written) and do not require an Electronic Affidavit for 
upload. These documents include, but are not limited to, a Medical Durable Power of Attorney or 
a Living Will. 
V. 
Procedures by Which a Qualified Individual May Add or Remove an Advance Medical 
Directive To or From the System 
1. 
The Registry shall provide a free flow of information between patients, health care providers, and 
their associated HIPAA-covered entities. 
2. 
The Registry shall collect individuals’ name and email address, where available. It is the 
responsibility of the individual to ensure their contact information is up-to-date. 
3. 
Existing Advance Directive documents electronically hosted in Health Information Exchange or 
Electronic Health Record systems remain binding and in effect. It is not a requirement for an 
Advance Directive document to be uploaded to the Registry in order to be considered binding. 
i. 
Other sources of Advance Directives documents should be considered in addition to the 
Registry. The Registry is not comprehensive and valid documents may exist elsewhere. 
ii. 
Existing documents may be uploaded to the Registry from the Health Information 
Exchange, Electronic Health Records systems, or paper documents on file with a HIPAA-
covered entity may be scanned and uploaded into the Registry following its launch. 
iii. 
Valid, properly executed, self-uploaded documents, such as those uploaded to Electronic 
Health Records systems, may be uploaded to the Registry by a Qualified Provider. 
4. 
Qualified Providers must collect a signed affidavit in some cases. Please see Section IV, Criteria 
in Which an Electronic Affidavit is Required, above. 
5. 
A Qualified Provider may remove documents from the Registry upon request from the individual 
or their authorized surrogate. If an individual requests document removal, the Qualified Provider 
must act to remove the document in a timely manner. However, it is the responsibility of the 
individual or their authorized surrogate to confirm removal. 
6. 
The Registry shall provide an annual reminder to individuals with documents in the Registry via 
email, where available, to verify their documents. It is the responsibility of the individual to ensure 
their contact information in the Registry is up-to-date. 
7. 
It is the responsibility of the individual or their authorized surrogate to ensure the documents 
included in the Registry are appropriately executed, accurate, and current.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1006-3 
Center for Health and Environmental Data 
 
4 
i. 
If an Advance Directive document is executed in another state, it is the responsibility of 
the individual to ensure their document is properly executed according to that state’s 
laws. 
8. 
A Qualified Provider and their associated HIPAA-covered entity may not bill individuals an 
additional fee to upload documents to the Registry in excess of allowable Advance Care Planning 
services. 
VI. 
Procedures by Which a Qualified Individual May Access and Download an Advance 
Medical Directive from the System 
1. 
A Qualified Provider may access and download Advance Directives from the Registry at any time, 
including, but not limited to, the following purposes: 
i. 
During a medical crisis; 
ii. 
In a situation in which decisions about an individual’s end-of-life care are needed; 
iii. 
At request of an individual or their authorized surrogate; 
iv. 
During a medical visit with an individual in which advance care planning is being 
discussed. 
VII. 
Procedures and Safeguards for Ensuring the Confidentiality and Secure Storage of the 
Information Contained in an Advance Medical Directive that is Added To and Maintained in 
the System 
1. 
All documents uploaded to the Registry shall be and remain strictly privileged and confidential as 
electronic medical records, pursuant both to § 25-1-1203, CRS, Electronic storage of medical 
records, and federal law, specifically the Health Information Portability and Accountability Act of 
1996 (HIPAA) Privacy and Security Rules. 
VIII. 
Special Considerations for Telehealth 
1. 
For situations in which an Electronic Affidavit is required: 
i. 
An individual or their authorized surrogate may sign the affidavit in the presence of a 
Qualified Provider either in person or via telehealth (over video or telephone). 
ii. 
In situations in which an individual is not able to access the Electronic Affidavit in the 
Registry, the individual may either electronically or physically sign the affidavit in the 
presence of a Qualified Provider either in person or via telehealth (over video or 
telephone). 
iii. 
A signed affidavit must be submitted to the Qualified Provider by the individual either via 
mail, email, or fax to the Qualified Provider in a timely manner. 
iv. 
It is the responsibility of the individual to ensure their documents have been received and 
appropriately uploaded to the Registry. 
v. 
If the visit occurs via telehealth, a Qualified Provider must follow their existing 
organizational telehealth policies to ensure identity verification and adequate privacy and 
confidentiality.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1006-3 
Center for Health and Environmental Data 
 
5 
2. 
For situations in which an Electronic Affidavit is not required: 
i. 
An individual or their authorized surrogate may elect to meet with a Qualified Provider to 
discuss Advance Care Planning in person or via telehealth, but it is not required. 
ii. 
If an individual or their authorized surrogate elects not to discuss their documents at a 
visit with a Qualified Provider, the Provider is responsible for uploading their documents 
to the registry in a timely manner. However, the individual or their authorized surrogate 
are responsible for ensuring that the provider has received their documents 
(electronically or in hard copy) and that their Provider has uploaded their documents to 
the Registry. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 07/15/2021.
