---
id: "5_CCR_1001-18"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "5 CCR 1001-18"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=1529&fileName=5%20CCR%201001-18&type=pdf"
---

#### 5_CCR_1001-18. 5 CCR 1001-18

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
Air Quality Control Commission 
REGULATION NUMBER 16  STREET SANDING EMISSIONS 
5 CCR 1001-18 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
I.  Street Sanding Materials Specifications 
I.A.  Applicability 
The provisions of this Section I shall apply to street sanding materials purchased after October 1, 1991 or 
used after June 1, 1992 by: any governmental entity; any employee, official, representative, or agent of 
such governmental entity; and any person who contracts with such governmental entity for the purpose of 
applying street sanding material in the AIR program area, as defined in Section 42-4-307(8) C.R.S.  This 
Section I shall also apply to all suppliers of street sanding materials to be used by these governmental 
entities. 
I.B.  Definitions 
I.B.1.  “Percent Fines” means the percent material passing a #100 sieve as determined by the American 
Society for Testing Materials' (ASTM) “Standard Method for Sieve Analysis of Fine and Coarse 
aggregates”, designation C136-84a (1988) (American Association of State Highway and Transportation 
Officials designation T27-88.) 
I.B.2.  “Durability Index” means the percent loss of weight as determined using ASTM “Standard Test 
Method for Resistance to Degradation of Small-Size Coarse Aggregate by Abrasion and Impact in the 
Los Angeles Machine”. Designation C131-89. 
I.B.3.  “High Degree of Angularity” means that grains exhibit sharply intersecting, planar faces over entire 
surface. 
I.B.4.  “Street Sanding Material(s),” when used in Section I, Street Sanding Materials Specifications, 
means natural geologic materials, excluding salt and other de-icing chemicals, used to provide increased 
traction on roadways or paved areas. 
I.B.5.  “Recycled Street Sanding Material” means previously used street sanding material which has been 
collected from roadways or paved areas and is then re-used as is, after washing, or after blending with 
new street sanding material. 
I.B.6.  “Full Deployment” means that all roadways targeted for treatment during a snow/ice event are 
sanded. 
I.B.7,  “Independent Laboratory” means a facility capable of performing the specified tests in a competent, 
professional, and unbiased manner with no financial, family, or personal connection to the supplier or 
user of street sanding materials. 
I.B.8.  “User(s)” means any governmental entity, and any employee, official, representative, or agent of 
such governmental entity responsible for the application of street sanding materials, and any person who 
contracts with such governmental entity for the purpose of applying street sanding material. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
2 
I.C.  Street Sanding Material Standards 
I.C.I.  Material Standards 
All street sanding material, whether new or recycled, shall equal or exceed either of the following 
standards: 
I.C.1.a.  less than 2% fines and less than 45% durability index or; 
I.C.I.b.  less than 4% fines, less than 33% durability index, and a high degree of angularity 
exhibited by the majority of the grains. 
I.D.  Testing Requirements 
I.D.1.  General 
Testing of street sanding material covered by this regulation shall consist of the determination of: 
I.D.1.a.  the percent fines; 
I.D.1.b.  the durability index; and 
I.D.1.c.  the high degree of angularity exhibited by the majority of the grains. 
I.D.2.  Supplier Requirements 
I.D.2.a.  Suppliers of street sanding material covered by this regulation shall perform at least one 
test to determine the percent fines each week on the material as it is produced. 
I.D.2.b.  Suppliers shall have one test per month performed by an independent laboratory to 
determine the percent fines on a representative sample of their street sanding material. This shall 
be performed each month in which street sanding material is produced. 
I.D.2.C.  Suppliers shall have one test performed by an independent laboratory determine the 
durability index on a representative sample from the pit source between July 1 and September 30 
each year in which they sell street sanding material covered by this regulation. 
I.D.2.d.  If Section C.I.b. applies, supplier shall furnish once per month of production a signed 
statement certifying that a visual examination for angularity was performed on the street sanding 
material and the results of that visual exam. 
I.D.3.  User Requirements 
Users shall have a test performed by an independent laboratory to determine the percent fines index on 
all recycled materials at least once for the first 250 tons of recycled material used each winter and at least 
once for every 500 tons of recycled material thereafter. 
I.D.4.  Division Audit Authority 
The Air Pollution Control Division (Division) may enter the site of any supplier or user of sanding material 
covered by this regulation for the purpose of obtaining a sample of material to determine if the material 
meets - e applicable standards. 
I.E.  Reporting Requirements

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
3 
I.E.I.  Suppliers Requirements 
I.E.1.a.  Suppliers shall submit to the Division a monthly report that contains a summary of the 
results of all percent fines tests performed by the supplier and independent laboratories as 
required by the provisions of Section I.D.2.a. and b. For material conforming to Section I.C.1.b., 
suppliers shall submit monthly certification that visual examination of angularity of grains has 
been performed and the results of that visual exam. 
I.E.1.b.  For every year that street sanding material is produced, the supplier shall submit to the 
Division a copy of the results of the annual durability index test performed by independent labs as 
required by Section I.D.2.C. no later than 60 days after the test is conducted. 
I.E.1.c.  Prior to, or upon, delivery of street sanding material, suppliers shall provide users of 
street sanding material covered by this regulation with a report demonstrating that the supplier 
has met all testing requirements of this regulation applicable to the time period in which deliveries 
are made 
I.E.2.  Users Requirements 
I.E.2.a.  Users of recycled street sanding material shall submit to the Division copies of the results 
of testing conducted according to Section D.3. no later than 30 days after the tests are 
conducted. 
I.E.2.b.  Within 7 calendar days of awarding a contract for the purchase of street sanding material 
to a supplier, the user shall notify the Division of the supplier's name and the location of the 
aggregate pit(s) from which the material will be supplied. 
I.E.2.C.  The user shall maintain on file reports received under the provisions of Section E.l.c. for 
a period of three (3) years. 
I.E.3.  Division Audit Authority 
All records generated under the provisions of this regulation shall be made available for inspection upon 
request by the Division. 
I.F.  Alternative Test Methods and Standards 
Alternative percent fines and durability index test procedures for percent fines and durability may be 
approved by the Division and EPA should they be determined to provide a measure that is equivalent to 
the test procedures of this regulation. 
I.G.  Alternative Sanding Materials 
Experimentation with new street sanding materials may be approved by the Division and EPA provided 
that the impact of such experiments or tests does not contribute appreciably to air quality degradation. 
II.  Street Sanding Requirements Specific to the Denver PM10 Attainment/Maintenance Area 
II.A.  Applicability

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
4 
II.A.1.  The provisions of this Section II shall apply to any governmental entity and any employee, official, 
representative, or agent of such governmental entity responsible for applying street sanding material to 
any roadway in the Denver PM10 Attainment/Maintenance area as defined in the AQCC Ambient Air 
Standards Regulation (effective date: July 30, 1991). The provisions of this Section II shall also apply to 
any person who contracts with such governmental entity for the purpose of applying street sanding 
material to any roadway in the Denver PM-10 Attainment/Maintenance area. 
II.B.  Additional Definitions 
II.B.1.  “Base Sanding Amount” is the average amount of street sanding material applied per lane mile 
driven by maintenance trucks during snow and ice removal operations. The base sanding amount shall 
be calculated using 1989 data. If reliable 1989 data is not available, another base year period may be 
used after approval by the Division. 
II.B.2.  “Street Sanding Material(s),” when used in Section II, Street Sanding Requirements Specific to the 
Denver PM10 Attainment/Maintenance Area, means natural geologic material, including sand and sodium 
chloride rock salt but excluding other de-icing chemicals, used to provide increased traction or de-icing on 
roadways. 
II.B.3.  “Foothills Area” refers to the area defined as follows: 
The western edge of the Denver PM10 attainment/maintenance area from the southern Jefferson 
County line to the northern Boulder County line; 
the northern Boulder County line east to the western edge of US Highway 36; 
the western edge of US Highway 36 from the northern Boulder County line south to the Boulder 
City limits; 
the western edge of the Boulder City limits south to CO Highway 93; 
the western edge of CO Highway 93 south to the Golden City limits; 
the western edge of the Golden City limits south to US Highway 40; 
the western edge of US Highway 40 southwest to CO Highway 26; * 
CO Highway 26 south to US Highway 93; 
US Highway 93 south to the Morrison City limits; 
the western and southern edge of the Morrison City limits to Highway C-470; 
the western edge of C-470 south to South Platte Canyon Road; 
the western edge of South Platte Canyon Road south to Kassler Road; 
the western edge of Kassler Road to the southern edge of Douglas County Road 7; 
the southern edge of Douglas County Road 7 east to the western edge of Douglas County Road 
5; 
the western edge of Douglas County Road 5 south to Roxborough Park Road;

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
5 
proceeding on a line from the intersection of Douglas County Road 5 and Roxborough Park Road 
to the intersection of Colorado Highways 67 and 105 (Perry Park Road); 
south along the western edge of Perry Park Road to the southern Douglas County line; and 
west along the southern Douglas & Jefferson County lines to the western edge of the Denver 
PM10 attainment/maintenance area. 
II.B.4.  “Uncontrolled levels of wintertime street sand and road dust emissions” shall be calculated using 
historical 1989 data. 
II.C.  Requirements 
II.C.1.  Each user shall establish and document its base sanding amount. Documentation of the base 
sanding amount shall be submitted to the Division and the Regional Air Quality Council (RAQC) by 
September 30, 1993. 
II.C.2.  Except as otherwise provided in sections II.C.4, II.C.5 and II.C.6; each user shall achieve a 30% 
reduction of uncontrolled levels of wintertime street sand and paved road dust emissions on roadways 
within their jurisdiction in the PM10 attainment/maintenance area, excepting those roadways within the 
foothills area. 
II.C.3.  Each user shall achieve a 20% reduction from uncontrolled levels of wintertime street sand and 
paved road dust emissions on those roadways within the foothills area of their jurisdiction. 
II.C.4.  The City and County of Denver shall achieve a 72% reduction from uncontrolled levels of 
wintertime street sand and paved road dust emissions on roadways in the central business district (CBD). 
The CBD is defined as the area bounded by and inclusive of Colfax Avenue, Speer Boulevard, Wynkoop 
Street, 20th Street, and Broadway. 
II.C.5.  The Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) shall achieve a 54% reduction from 
uncontrolled levels of wintertime street sand and paved road dust emissions from Interstate 25 and its 
entrance/exit ramps between 6th Avenue and University Boulevard. 
II.C.6  The City and County of Denver and CDOT shall achieve a 50% reduction from uncontrolled levels 
of wintertime street sand and paved road dust emissions on roadways within the area bounded by, and 
including, Federal Boulevard, Downing Street, 38th Avenue, and Louisiana, except as otherwise provided 
by sections II.C.4 and II.C.5. 
II.D.  Recordkeeping and Reporting 
II.D.1.  No later than June 30, 2001 and each year thereafter, users of street sanding material covered by 
this section shall submit a report to the Division and the RAQC containing the following information for the 
preceding twelve months or the preceding calendar year: 
II.D.1.a.  the total number of miles driven by maintenance trucks during snow and ice removal 
operations; 
II.D.1.b.  the total amount of sanding material (both new and recycled), salt, and other deicing 
chemicals used; 
II.D.1.c.  the number and dates of full deployment episodes; 
II.D.1.d.  the number of lane miles typically sand ;d during c :h full deployment;

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
6 
II.D.1.e.  the percent of the sanded roadways swept within 4 days of a sanding event; and 
II.D.1.f.  the type of street sweeping equipment used. 
II.D.2.  Those entities with roadways in the foothills area shall provide two reports with the information 
listed in Section II.D.1. One report shall contain the.information for roadways in the foothills area and the 
other for roadways within the remainder of their jurisdiction. 
II.D.3.  The City and County of Denver and CDOT shall provide two reports with the information listed in 
Section II.D.1. One report shall contain the information for roadways in the areas described in Sections 
II.C.4 and II.C.5, and the other for other roadways in their jurisdictions within the Denver PM10 
attainment/maintenance area. 
II.D.4.  Beginning June 30,2002, the City and County of Denver and the CDOT shall provide an additional 
report of information listed in Section II.D.1. for the area bounded by, andincluding, Federal Boulevard, 
Downing Street, 38th Avenue, and Louisiana Avenue as described II.C.6. 
II.E.  Compliance Methodology 
II.E.1.  The calculation of the percent reduction from uncontrolled levels of wintertime street sand and 
paved road dust emissions shall be based on the reduction in street sand from the base sanding amount, 
the percent of roadways swept within four days of a sanding event, and the latest data on the emission 
benefits of street sanding materials, de-icing agents, and street sweeping equipment, which is consistent 
with the methodology used for the 2001 PM10 maintenance plan. 
III.  Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose 
III.A.  May 20, 1999 
This Statement of Basis, Specific Authority, and Purpose complies with the requirements of the 
Administrative Procedures Act, section 24-4-103 C.R.S. and the Colorado Air Pollution Prevention and 
Control Act, section 25-7-110.5, C.R.S. 
Basis 
The "Colorado State Implementation Plan (SIP) for Particulate Matter (PM-10); Denver Metropolitan 
Nonattainment Area Element" signed into law on May 31, 1995 and subsequently approved by the U.S. 
Environmental Protection Agency includes in Chapter Xl.B.3.d the primary PM-10 emissions budget for 
mobile sources in the metro area. 
As amended by  § 25-7-105 (1) (a) (III) , C.R.S. (1998), the metro area's mobile source PM-10 emissions 
budget for the purposes of federal transportation conformity is 54 tons per day from 1998 - 2005 and 60 
tons per day in 2006 and beyond. 
Currently, in order to demonstrate conformity of regional transportation plans with the established mobile 
source emissions budgets for the area, the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) obtains 
letters of commitment from city, county, and state agencies to reduce PM-10 emissions through improved 
street sanding and sweeping programs that go beyond what is currently required by Regulation 16.  The 
emissions reduction achieved through this proposed "state-only" revision to Regulation 16 can be utilized 
for conformity purposes and will eliminate the need for DRCOG to seek commitment letters in the future.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
7 
Also, the provisions of section 25-7-105 (1) (a) (III) include a 44 ton per day mobile source emissions 
budget which applies exclusively under reserved state authority pursuant to the provisions of C.R.S. 25-7-
105 (1).  Section 25-7-105 (1) (a) (III) also states that: "Any entity with authority to adopt a transportation 
plan required under section 43-1-1103, C.R.S., shall consider any mobile source emissions budgets in 
effect under this article in the development of transportation improvement programs for federal purposes."  
This includes consideration of the 44 ton per day mobile source emissions budget established under state 
law in Section V.C.4 of the Colorado Ambient Air Quality Standards Regulation. 
As part of the development of the metro area's first comprehensive, long-range air quality plan, called the 
Blueprint for Clean Air, the Regional Air Quality Council (RAQC), evaluated the costs, benefits, and 
feasibility of achieving a 44 ton per day mobile source emissions budget as a state-only requirement.  The 
modifications to Regulation 16 proposed in this action will implement the RAQC's final recommendation in 
the Blueprint for Clean air which, based on current data, will maintain mobile source PM-10 emissions in 
the budget area at no more than 45 tons per day through 2020. 
Maintaining mobile source PM-10 emissions at 45 tons per day through 2020 will ensure the region stays 
in compliance with EPA's health-based standard for PM-10.  Additionally, the emission reductions 
achieved through this regulatory modification will reduce fine particulate (PM-2.5) levels, providing a 
margin of safety against future violations of EPA's new standard for this pollutant. 
Authority 
General and specific authority for revising Air Quality Regulations is contained in the Colorado Air 
Pollution Control Act, Section 25-7-102, 25-7-109, 25-7-109 (1), and 25-7-109 (2) (a&b). 
Purpose 
The purpose of this regulatory modification is to prevent significant increases in mobile source PM-10 
emissions in the metro Denver non-attainment area as the number of vehicle miles traveled continues to 
grow in the future.  Adopting this rule as a state-only requirement means that it will not modify the existing 
State Implementation Plan, nor will these requirements be federally enforceable.  However, the emission 
reductions achieved through implementation of the regulation will provide the region with a margin of 
safety against future violations of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for PM-10 and PM-2.5. 
The emission reductions proposed in this regulatory modification are already being achieved by most 
state and local agencies in the area.  This state-only regulation will ensure that the emission reductions 
currently being achieved will be maintained into the future. 
Findings 
The Air Quality Control Commission makes the following findings pursuant to C.R.S. Section 25-7-110.8. 
First, the rule revision is based on reasonably available, validated, reviewed and sound scientific 
methodologies. The uncontrolled emissions estimates and emissions budgets developed by the APCD 
are based on published EPA guidance.  Maintenance levels of emissions are supported by SIP modeling 
performed in accordance with published EPA guidance.  Data on alternative materials and the sand 
fraction of paved road dust are based on manufacturer's studies and local research conducted by the 
Colorado Department of Transportation and are acceptable to EPA.  Efficiencies used for sweeping 
equipment are based on EPA guidance.  Provisions have been included to allow consideration of 
additional information in the future which could allow for the achievement of the required reductions at 
reduced costs. 
Second, the emissions reductions required by the revision will maintain the metro area at an emissions 
level through 2020 that will ensure compliance with the PM-10 NAAQS as demonstrated by SIP modeling 
and control the growth of PM-10 emissions.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
8 
Third, the emissions reduction is cost effective and allows for flexibility of choice of control strategies to 
achieve the requirement.  It is also equitable and fair in that all entities are required to achieve the same 
overall reduction, and it makes provisions for the foothills areas which are already at the limit of safely 
achievable and cost effective reductions. 
Fourth, the emissions reduction is reasonably achievable in that most entities are presently achieving 
reductions greater than required. This proposal received approval from many of the effected parties who 
participated in the RAQC's Street Sanding Subcommittee as part of the Blueprint for Clean Air.  This 
measure also was recommended by the full RAQC when it formally adopted the Blueprint on January 7, 
1999. 
Federal Requirements 
There are no federal requirements for this revision at this time. 
III.B.  Denver metropolitan area, redesignation to attainment for PM10 
Adopted:  April 19, 2001 
The amendments to the Regulation No. 16 are a component of the maintenance plan and redesignation 
request also adopted by the Commission on April 19, 2001 to redesignate the area as attainment for 
particulate matter less than ten microns in diameter (PM10). 
The April 19, 2001 revisions to the regulations do three things.  First, the revisions make federally 
enforceable the existing state-only requirements adopted by the Commission on May 20, 1999.  The 
Commission adopted the state-only requirements in May 1999, which a require a 20% to 30% reduction 
in emissions from wintertime street sand and paved road dust throughout the area, to keep emissions 
from exceeding the state-only emissions budget then in effect.  According to the Division's air quality 
models, the measures will be necessary to maintain the PM10 NAAQS and, therefore, must be made part 
of the federally-enforceable SIP. 
Second, the revisions require further reductions in road dust emissions in the central Denver area, 
effective October 1, 2001.  The revisions require emissions to be reduced by 50% to 72% from an 
established baseline. 
Third, the revisions reorganize and simplify the regulations by describing all requisite emission reductions 
in terms of 1989 data. 
Statutory Authority 
General and specific authority for revising Air Quality Regulations is contained in the Colorado Air 
Pollution Control Act,  § § 25-7-105(1)(a)(I), 25-7-107(2.5), 25-7-109(1), (2)(a) and (2)(b). 
Federal Requirements 
The provisions adopted by the Commission do not exceed the federal requirements.  42 USC 7505a(a) 
requires the maintenance plan to include control measures as may be necessary to ensure maintenance 
of the NAAQS for at least ten years following redesignation.  The revisions adopted by the Commission 
are necessary to demonstrate such maintenance of the NAAQS. 
Findings 
The Air Quality Control Commission makes the following findings pursuant to  § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
9 
Maintenance levels of emissions are supported by SIP modeling performed in accordance with published 
EPA guidance.  Data on alternative materials and the sand fraction of paved road dust are based on 
manufacturer's studies and local research conducted by the Colorado Department of Transportation and 
are acceptable to EPA.  Efficiencies used for sweeping equipment are based on EPA guidance and 
testing performed in Colorado.  Provisions have been included to allow consideration of additional 
information in the future which could allow for the achievement of the required reductions at reduced 
costs.  The Commission believes the EPA-approved models and guidance documents are inaccurate, but 
federal rules require the State to use such models and guidance to demonstrate the adequacy of the 
maintenance plan.  Thus, the rule revisions are based on the only methodology authorized for use by 
federal law.  All methodologies and information made available by interested parties have been 
considered. 
The record reflects that reduced use of sand on paved roadways, and the clean-up of sanding material 
once applied, reduces ambient concentrations of PM10 in the ambient air.  Thus, evidence in the record 
supports the finding that the rule will result in a demonstrable reduction in air pollution. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History
