---
id: "5_CCR_1002-62"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "5 CCR 1002-62"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=8777&fileName=5%20CCR%201002-62&type=pdf"
---

#### 5_CCR_1002-62. 5 CCR 1002-62

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
Water Quality Control Commission 
REGULATION NO. 62 REGULATIONS FOR EFFLUENT LIMITATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-62 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
62.1 
AUTHORITY 
The Water Quality Control Commission (“Commission”) is directed by section 25-8-205, C.R.S., to 
promulgate control regulations to describe prohibitions, standards, concentrations, and effluent limitations 
on the extent of specifically identified pollutants that any person may discharge into any specific class of 
state waters. 
Materials incorporated by reference are available for public inspection during normal business hours, or 
copies may be obtained at a reasonable cost, from the Administrator, Water Quality Control Commission, 
4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, Colorado 80222. All material incorporated by reference may be 
examined at any state publications depository library. Copies of incorporated materials are also available 
at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Region 8 Technical Library located at 1595 Wynkoop 
Street (16th Street Mall and Wynkoop) Denver, Colorado 80202-1129. 
Unless expressly stated otherwise, materials incorporated by reference are those editions in existence as 
of the date this regulation is promulgated or revised by the Commission, and references do not include 
later amendments to or editions of the incorporated. 
62.2 
APPLICABILITY 
The provisions of this regulation apply where the limitations and/or other conditions required hereunder 
are incorporated into a permit issued pursuant to Commission Regulation No. 61 (Colorado Discharge 
Permit System Regulations), 5 CCR 1002-61, except that this regulation does not apply to permits for 
stormwater discharges. 
62.3 
DEFINITIONS 
See the Colorado Water Quality Control Act and the Commission’s codified regulations for additional 
definitions. 
(1) 
“STATE WATERS” - means any and all surface or subsurface waters which are contained in or 
flow in or through this state, but does not include waters in sewage systems, waters in treatment 
works of disposal systems, waters in potable water distribution systems, and all water withdrawn 
for use until use and treatment have been completed. 
62.4 
REGULATIONS 
(1) 
The effluent limitations for identified pollutants shall be applied in permits in accordance with the 
following requirements. 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-62 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
2 
(2) 
At such time as effluent limitation guidelines are promulgated by the Commission for any industry 
pursuant to section 25-8-205(2)(d), C.R.S., such industry shall be subject to those guidelines and 
shall not be subject to effluent limitations set forth below in paragraph 62.5. If the Commission 
has not so promulgated effluent limitation guidelines for any particular industry, but that industry is 
subject to numeric effluent limitation guidelines promulgated by the United States Environmental 
Protection Agency (“EPA” ) pursuant to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, the 
effluent from these industries shall be subject to the corresponding numeric effluent limitations in 
the applicable EPA guidelines and shall not be subject to the effluent limitations of paragraph 
62.5 below. 
(3) 
The effluent limitations set forth below, or promulgated according to subparagraph (2) above, are 
also subject to being superseded when it is found that stricter limitations are required in order to 
ensure that water quality standards are maintained. 
62.5 
SPECIFIC LIMITATIONS FOR THE DISCHARGE OF POLLUTANTS 
The following numeric limits shall apply where the Water Quality Control Division (“Division”) identifies the 
pollutant as one that may, without treatment, be present in the discharge at a level approaching the 
relevant limit. Except as required under federal law, where the Division determines that a numeric limit is 
infeasible, the Division shall require implementation of best management practices as a condition of the 
permit as necessary to control or abate the discharge of pollutants to state waters. In no case will a 
discharge be held to be in compliance with any of the limitations set forth below where the discharge is 
diluted with other waters, unless such compliance would exist without such dilution. 
(1) 
Numeric Limitations 
PARAMETER 
PARAMETER 
LIMITATIONS 
PARAMETER 
LIMITATIONS 
PARAMETER 
LIMITATIONS 
 
7-Day Average 1 
30-Day Average 2 
Instantaneous 
Maximum 3 
(a) Biological Oxygen 
Demand (BOD5) 
45 mg/l 
30 mg/l 
N/A 
(b) Total Suspended Solids 
(TSS) 
45 mg/l 
30 mg/l 
N/A 
(c) Carbonaceous Biological 
Oxygen Demand (CBOD5) 
40 mg/l 
25 mg/l 
N/A 
(d) Residual Chlorine 
 
 
0.5 mg/l 3, 5 
(e) pH 
 
 
6.0 - 9.0 s.u. 3, 4 
(f) Oil and Grease 
 
 
10 mg/l 3, 6 
1 
7-Day Average: The arithmetic mean of all samples taken in a 7-day period. 
2 
30 Day-Average: The arithmetic mean of all samples taken in a 30-day period. 
3 
As determined by the results of any single grab sample. 
4 
The pH shall remain at or between these values. 
5 
This limitation shall not apply to discharges to irrigation ditches or to ground water 
6 
A numeric effluent limit will be assigned in permits for discharges to surface waters, however, monitoring for a “visual 
sheen” will generally be required. Where a visual sheen is detected, the discharger will be required to collect a grab sample and 
have it analyzed for oil and grease. Monitoring for oil and grease may be required where there is a reasonable potential that oil and 
grease will be present in the effluent at concentrations at or above 10 mg/l.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-62 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
3 
These numeric limits and sampling requirements have been set with the inherent variability of the 
analytical procedures taken into consideration. 
(2) 
In addition to the above effluent limitations, the arithmetic mean of the values for effluent samples 
for CBOD5, BOD5 and TSS collected in a period of 30 consecutive days shall not exceed 15 
percent of the arithmetic mean of the values for influent samples collected at approximately the 
same time during the same period (85 percent removal). 
(a) 
For domestic sources, where the permittee has demonstrated that the treatment facility is 
unable to meet the 85 percent removal requirement for a parameter and the inability to 
meet the requirement is not caused by excessive infiltration, as defined in 40-CFR 
35.2005(b)(16), a lower percent removal requirement or a mass loading limit may be 
substituted provided that the permittee can demonstrate that the provisions of 40 CFR 
133.103(d) can be met. 
(b) 
For industrial sources, the Division may, as it finds appropriate on a case by case basis, 
substitute a lower percentage removal requirement or a mass loading limit for the 85 
percent removal requirements of this subsection (2). The Division may also determine, on 
a case by case basis, that the numeric limitations for CBOD5, BOD5, and TSS as listed in 
subsection (1), are sufficiently protective of the applicable designated uses, and in such 
case, the Division may exempt such industrial source(s) from the percentage removal 
requirements of this subsection (2). 
(3) 
The numeric limitations for TSS in section 62.5(1)(b), above, may be adjusted for waste 
stabilization ponds which treat domestic waste provided that (1) the waste stabilization ponds are 
the principal process used for secondary treatment; and (2) the facility is designed to achieve the 
solids removal possible with best waste stabilization pond technology. Best waste stabilization 
pond technology is defined as that design criteria for ponds currently in effect as adopted by the 
Commission or the Division. Since these criteria will be upgraded periodically, any permittee not 
in conformance with the approved design criteria will be given an opportunity to establish a 
reasonable implementation schedule given due consideration to design, construction, and 
financial capability of the permittee. The adjusted limitations shall be as described below: 
 
Treatment Type 
7-Day Average 1 
30-Day Average 2 
Non-aerated Waste Stabilization Ponds 
160 mg/l 
105 mg/l 
Aerated Waste Stabilization Ponds 
110 mg/l 
75 mg/l 
1 
7-Day Average: The arithmetic mean of all samples taken in a 7-day period. 
2 
30-Day Average: The arithmetic mean of all samples taken in a 30-day period. 
In addition, where adjusted TSS limitations are given, the 85 percent removal requirement for 
TSS shall be waived. 
(4) 
The numeric limits for pH for domestic wastewater treatment facilities may be adjusted to values 
outside of the limits in section 62.5(1)(e), above, subject to limitations necessary to protect 
applicable water quality standards, where inorganic chemicals are not added to the waste stream 
as part of the treatment process and where industrial contributions do not cause the pH to be less 
than 6.0 s.u. or greater than 9.0 s.u. 
(5) 
Sampling of discharges, for the purpose of the effluent limitations for pollutants set forth in section 
62.4(1) above, shall be made prior to any admixture of the discharge with state waters. All new 
discharges, except for on-site wastewater treatment systems with Division approval, shall be 
constructed so that a sample of the effluent can be obtained at a point after the final treatment 
process and before discharge to state waters.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-62 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
4 
If samples for BOD5, CBOD5 or TSS are taken at the outfall of a final quiescent pond, with a 
detention time of at least 48 hours, the sample may be a grab sample. In all other plants which 
cannot meet this requirement, effluent samples shall be a composite sample, comprised of a 
minimum of four grab samples taken approximately two hours apart. 
(6) 
Normally the numeric limits for BOD5 will be applied, however, they may be replaced with the 
numeric limits for CBOD5 in section 62.5(1)(c) at the request of the permittee. 
(7) 
The permittee must be able to show proof at the request of the Division of the accuracy of any 
flow-measuring device used in obtaining data submitted in the discharge monitoring report. The 
flow-measuring device must indicate values within ten percent of the actual flow being measured. 
(8) 
If wastewater is returned to the source from which it was obtained, the numeric limitations 
specified in section 62.5(1) above, may be in addition to the measured values of the same 
parameter(s) in the incoming water except where an exceedance of a water quality standard 
would take place. 
(9) 
Any person subject to the numeric limits for BOD5 , or CBOD5 shall have the option of 
establishing, to the continuing satisfaction of the Division, a relationship between BOD5 or CBOD5 
and COD (chemical oxygen demand), TOC (total organic carbon), or TOD (total oxygen demand) 
with respect to such effluent, and the COD, TOC, or TOD values so established shall be 
substituted for the BOD5 , or CBOD5 , values required under section 62.5(1), above. 
62.6 
Reserved. 
62.7 
Reserved. 
62.8 
Reserved. 
62.9 
STATEMENT OF BASIS AND PURPOSE 
A written statement of the basis and purpose of these amendments to the effluent limitation regulations 
justifying these amendments, has been prepared and adopted by the Commission. The written statement 
is hereby incorporated in these regulations by reference, in accord with C.R.S. 1973, 24-4-103, as 
amended. 
62.10 
STATEMENT OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE 
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose is adopted in compliance with Section 
24-4-103: 25-8-202(1)(c) and (2); and 25-8-205, C.R.S. 
The amendments allow substitution of the CBOD5 test for the BOD5 test contained in Section 10.1.3(1)(1) 
of the regulation. The Federal requirements for secondary treatment have been revised to permit the 
substitution. The BOD5 pollutant parameter and its associated testing procedure have been widely used 
to determine the operating efficiency and effluent quality of wastewater treatment facilities. The oxygen 
demand for the BOD5 parameter is primarily exerted through the bacterial oxidation of carbonaceous 
organic matter which results in a carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand or CBOD. However, an 
additional nitrogenous oxygen demand (NOD) may also be exerted through the action of nitrifying 
bacteria that oxidize ammonia nitrogen to nitrate in the two stage process known as nitrification. 
Secondary treatment requirements are based on controlling the oxygen demand due to the carbonaceous 
component of the organic material in the effluent because secondary treatment facilities can effectively 
remove carbonaceous organic material but may not consistently remove nitrogenous materials.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-62 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
5 
Problems have arisen with the use of the BOD5 test in many municipal secondary facilities. When 
sufficient numbers of nitrifying bacteria are present in the test sample they can exert a significant NOD in 
the BOD5 test that would not be exerted in the absence of nitrifying bacteria. Since many of the factors 
conductive to improving secondary bacteria, the BOD5 test can erroneously indicate poorer effluent 
quality when, in fact, effluent quality and plan performance have actually improved. As a result of this, 
some facilities must be operated in a mode that inhibits the growth of nitrifying bacteria to improve BOD5 
test results and show compliance with secondary treatment requirements. These procedures usually 
result in poorer effluent quality, although BOD5 test results indicate the opposite and may result in greater 
sludge production and higher operation and maintenance costs. 
A nitrification inhibited BOD5 test or CBOD5 test allows the oxygen demand due to decomposition of 
carbonaceous organic matter to expressed but eliminates any extraneous measurement of NOD. 
A statistical analysis of effluent samples from well operated treatment plants indicated a CBOD5 of 25 
mg/l which corresponds to a BOD5 of 30 mg/l. Therefore, the use of the CBOD5 test and the 
corresponding 25 mg/l limit based on a 30-day BOD5 average is not expected to allow an additional 
oxygen demand on receiving waters and no negative water quality impacts are anticipated. 
FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT 
Since the substitution of CBOD5 for BOD5 will give a more accurate indication of true effluent quality in 
many instances, a positive indication of true effluent quality in many instances, a positive economic 
impact may be gained by municipal dischargers. As BOD5 may falsely indicate poorer-than-actual quality, 
thereby forcing more intensive treatment and/or the potential for fines as a result of permit violations, this 
substitute methodology may result in lessened treatment expenses and/or decreased risk of permit 
violation. 
As these regulations result in no potential impact upon beneficial uses and as costs may be saved, the 
Water Quality Control Commission finds this final agency action to be economically reasonable. 
62.11 
STATEMENT OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY, AND PURPOSE: 
The provisions of 24-4-103; 25-8-202(1)(c) and (2); and 25-8-205, C.R.S. provide the specific statutory 
authority for consideration of the regulatory amendments proposed by this Notice. 
The proposed amendments will change the definition of 7-day average and 30-day average contained in 
Section 10.1.4 of the regulation. Under current regulation three samples are required to establish a 7-day 
average or a 20-day average. 
At this time, approximately 200 permit for smaller facilities require sampling less frequently (once/month 
or once/quarter) than the existing regulation requires. This was allowed in order to minimize sampling 
costs for smaller permittees. 
In considering the proposed changes the Division examined the impact they would have on the affected 
permittees. Due to their inherent stability, effluent quality from lagoon facilities is fairly consistent. 
Therefore, one sample per month should give an accurate indication of effluent quality from lagoons and 
the change in the regulation will have little or no impact on the permittee. Small mechanical facilities, 
however, can exhibit large changes in process stability over a month. The proposed changes in the 
regulation could have a negative effect on mechanical facilities if the sampling requirements in their 
permits were to remain at the current level. In order to rectify this permits were to remain at their current 
level. In order to rectify this situation, permits for all small mechanical plants would be amended to include 
a sampling frequency of three times per 30 days. These changes would be reasonable as proper 
operation of mechanical facilities require frequent sampling for process adjustment.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-62 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
6 
Compliance monitoring done by the Division would be consistent with the sampling frequency in the 
permit of the affected facilities. In this way the results of the sampling series would be representative of 
the effluent quality from the facility during a 30-day period. 
FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT: 
The change in the definitions for 30-day and 7-day average in 10.1.4 of the State Effluent Regulations will 
reduce State sampling costs for lagoon facilities and will increase sampling costs for permittees operating 
small mechanical plants. However, the increased sampling is consistent with that necessary for the 
proper operation of a mechanical plant treatment facility. Therefore, the Water Quality Control 
Commission finds this final agency action to be economically reasonable. 
62.12 
Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose: 
The provisions of 24-4-103; 25-8-202(1)(c) and (2); and 25-8-205, C.R.S. provide the specific statutory 
authority for consideration of the regulatory amendments proposed by this Notice. 
The proposed amendments are being made in order to: (1) restructure the format of the regulation so that 
it is consistent with that of other regulations, and (2) make the regulation consistent with the Federal 
Secondary Treatment Regulation (40 CFR 133.100-133.105). 
The regulation, in its previous form, was not consistent with accepted for other Water Quality Control 
Commission regulations. This made it difficult to cite certain portions of the regulations in permits and 
other related documents. Under the amended regulation similar requirements, such as effluent limitations 
and sampling requirements, have been grouped together. Also the numeric order of the regulation has 
been adjusted such that it follows a logical progression. Actual deletions from the regulation, as well as 
major portions which are being moved, are denoted by slash marks. New portions of the regulations as 
well as those portions of the old regulation which have been moved, are denoted by capital letters. 
The changes being made pursuant to the Federal Secondary Treatment Regulations are summarized 
below: 
1. 
A provision has been added for a variance from the 85 percent removal requirement. The 
variance would only be granted where the permittee has; (1) quantified the amount of excessive 
infiltration/inflow (I/I) which is tributary to its collection system, (2) performed an analysis of the 
cost effectiveness of removing the excessive I/I versus treating it, and (3) eliminated any 
excessive I/I where it is shown to be cost effective to do so. 
2. 
The two million gallon a day ceiling for allowing the adjusted total suspended solids limitations 
has been removed. 
62.13 
STATEMENT OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY, AND PURPOSE; 1994 
AMENDMENTS. 
The provisions of 24-4-103; 25-8-202(1)(c) and (2); and 25-8-205, C.R.S. provide the specific statutory 
authority for consideration of the regulatory amendments proposed by this Notice. The Commission also 
adopted in compliance with 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the following statement of basis and purpose.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-62 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
7 
BASIS AND PURPOSE: 
A. 
Overview 
In considering whether to adopt the changes proposed in this proceeding, the Commission considered 
the applicability of section 25-8-202(8)(a) of the Colorado Water Quality Control Act. This section, 
adopted in 1989, establishes requirements that must be met when the Commission adopts “rules more 
stringent than corresponding enforceable federal requirements.” Although the existing Regulations for 
Effluent Limitations are more restrictive than federal secondary treatment requirements, these regulations 
were initially adopted in 1975. Section 25-8-206, C.R.S. explicitly validates all Commission regulations 
adopted prior to July 1, 1981. 
Because the changes adopted in this proceeding operate only to make the existing effluent limitations 
requirements more lenient, the Commission does not believe that the requirements of section 25-8-
202(8)(a) apply to the current actions. However, the Commission also believes that there is sound 
scientific and technical evidence in the record that the revised statewide effluent limitations are necessary 
to protect the public health, beneficial use of water, and the environment of the state. These provisions 
establish technology-based requirements to establish a minimum level of wastewater quality to be met by 
dischargers throughout the state. The existing requirements, which are being marginally relaxed in this 
proceeding have been in place for nearly twenty years. During this time, compliance with these 
requirements has not proved to be a major technological or economic problem for dischargers. 
B. 
Residual Chlorine 
The applicability of the residual chlorine limitation has been modified so that it does not apply to 
discharges to irrigation ditches. This change has been made in response to a concern, raised by a 
permittee, that the 0.5 mg/l limit may require additional expenditures to dechlorinate the effluent in order 
to meet the limit. They also expressed a concern that compliance with the limit could potentially cause 
higher levels of fecal coliform in irrigation ditches. 
C. 
Oil and Grease 
Footnote 5 to the oil and grease effluent limitation has been revised. The previous “no visible sheen” 
provision in this footnote has been eliminated. Clarifying language has been added to provide that 
monitoring for a “visible sheen” generally will be required as a screening test, to determine when it may 
be necessary to analysis a grab sample for oil and grease. 
D. 
Other Revisions 
The format of the regulation has been modified to be consistent with that of other Commission 
regulations. The word “average” has been deleted from the last sentence of section 10.1.3, subsection 2, 
in recognition of the fact that the limits for total residual chlorine and oil and grease are instantaneous 
maximum limits. One outdated provision has been deleted from section 10.1.4. Also, the citations in 
section 10.1.5, subsection 1, have been updated to reflect current documents and/or agency addresses. 
The Commission incorporated by reference in these rules documents that describe analytical and 
sampling methods to be used by the discharger. The documents are published by nationally recognized 
associations or organizations. A third document, prepared by the EPA, and proposed for incorporation by 
reference, was excluded in the final rule upon advice by the Attorney General's Office, because of 
potential conflicts with the Administrative Procedure Act. 
The Commission added a new paragraph 10.1.1 to indicate that the documents incorporated by reference 
in these rules are not to include later amendments to those documents, and that copies of incorporated 
documents may be obtained from the Commission. This paragraph was added to comply with the 
requirements of ' 24-4-103(12.5).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-62 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
8 
62.14 
STATEMENT OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY, AND PURPOSE; 1995 
AMENDMENTS. 
The provisions of 24-4-103; 25-8-202(1)(c) and (2); and 25-8-205, C.R.S. provide the specific statutory 
authority for consideration of the regulatory amendments proposed by this Notice. The Commission also 
adopted in compliance with 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the following statement of basis and purpose. 
BASIS AND PURPOSE: 
The Commission added a new subsection 10.1.4(4) to the regulation. This change to the regulation is 
based on language found in the Secondary Treatment Regulations at 40 CFR Part 133.102. Adoption of 
this provision will allow the Division to consider a variance from the current pH limits of 6.0 - 9.0 s.u. in 
cases where inorganic chemicals are not added to the waste stream as part of the treatment process and 
where industrial contributions do not cause the pH to be less than 6.0 s.u. or greater than 9.0 s.u.. A 
variance for a discharges to waters classified for aquatic life would only be granted in situations where the 
instream pH would remain within the 6.5 - 9.0 s.u. water quality standard. 
This provision will principally be applied to lagoon type treatment systems which, due to the effects of 
naturally occuring algae, often experience pH values of greater than 9.0 s.u.. 
62.15 
STATEMENT OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY, AND PURPOSE; 1996 
AMENDMENTS. 
The provisions of 24-4-103; 25-8-202(1)(c) and (2); and 25-8-205, C.R.S. provide the specific statutory 
authority for consideration of the regulatory amendment adopted by the Commission. The Commission 
also adopted in compliance with 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the following statement of basis and purpose. 
BASIS AND PURPOSE: 
The Commission added a new sentence to section 10.1.1 to comply with the incorporation by reference 
provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, section 24-4-103 (12.5)(c). 
62.16 
STATEMENT OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE; JULY, 1997 
RULEMAKING 
The provisions of sections 25-8-202 and 25-8-401, C.R.S., provide the specific statutory authority for 
adoption of the attached regulatory amendments. The Commission also adopted, in compliance with 
section 24-4-103(4) C.R.S., the following statement of basis and purpose. 
BASIS AND PURPOSE 
The Commission has adopted a revised numbering system for this regulation, as a part of an overall 
renumbering of all Water Quality Control Commission rules and regulations. The goals of the 
renumbering are: (1) to achieve a more logical organization and numbering of the regulations, with a 
system that provides flexibility for future modifications, and (2) to make the Commission’s internal 
numbering system and that of the Colorado Code of Regulations (CCR) consistent. The CCR references 
for the regulations will also be revised as a result of this hearing. 
62.17 
STATEMENT OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE; NOVEMBER, 
1998 RULEMAKING 
The provisions of sections 25-8-202 and 25-8-401, C.R.S., provide the specific statutory authority for 
adoption of the attached regulatory amendments. The Commission also adopted, in compliance with 
section 24-4-103(4) C.R.S., the following statement of basis and purpose.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-62 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
9 
BASIS AND PURPOSE 
The Commission revised the language in Section 62.4(3) in order to make it consistent with Section 
133.103(c) of the federal secondary treatment regulation. The previous language was more restrictive 
than the language in the federal regulation. This change will provide the division with additional flexibility 
in determining the type(s) of improvements, such as effluent filters, that can be added to facilities while 
still allowing them to be eligible for the adjusted total suspended solids limitations. 
62.18 
STATEMENT OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE; JANUARY, 
2008 RULEMAKING, EFFECTIVE MARCH 30, 2008 
The provisions of sections 25-8-202 and 25-8-501, C.R.S., provide the specific statutory authority for 
adoption of the attached regulatory amendments. The Commission also adopted, in compliance with 
section 24-4-103(4) C.R.S., the following statement of basis and purpose. 
BASIS AND PURPOSE 
The Commission made several editorial revisions to Regulation #62 to provide clarity and/or update 
terminology. Those changes that are more noteworthy will be identified in the discussion for the section 
where they were first made. 
The Commission added a new applicability section (62.2) to clarify the Commission’s intent, consistent 
with past Division practice, that the effluent limitations and other conditions of Regulation #62 are to be 
incorporated into discharge permits issued pursuant to Regulation #61 and that they are not self-
implementing. 
The Commission revised the language in section 62.3(1) to clarify that the applicable limit must be met 
prior to discharge to state waters. This is particularly important for discharges to ground water in order to 
ensure that the technology-based treatment requirement has been met and will typically require that 
compliance with the limits be demonstrated prior to application to the land. The Commission also revised 
the wording of this section and the remainder of the regulation to delete “wastewater” and, generally, 
replace that term with “pollutant(s)” in order to be consistent with the language of the Colorado Water 
Quality Control Act. 
The Commission deleted the allowance in section 62.3(2) (renumbered to 62.4(2)) for a compliance 
schedule to meet the identified limits as: 
1. 
The federal secondary treatment regulation requires compliance with the limits for five-day 
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD5) and total suspended solids (TSS) for publicly owned 
treatment works (POTWs); 
2. 
The applicable limits have been applied to each existing discharge; and 
3. 
It is reasonable to expect any new discharge to implement the level of technology necessary to 
attain the limits for pollutants identified in the regulation that may be present in their discharge.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-62 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
10 
The Commission modified the newly-numbered section 62.5 (previously 62.4) to provide that the numeric 
limits in that section will only be applied when the Division determines that a pollutant is “of concern” for 
that particular discharge. The Commission also modified section 62.4 to add flexibility for the Division to 
require implementation of best management practices (BMPs) in lieu of numeric limitations where it finds 
the application of numeric limits to be infeasible. The Commission expects that this provision would be 
particularly applicable to situations where the activities will discharge such minor amounts of pollutants 
that an in-stream water quality standard will not be exceeded or where sampling of the discharge, such as 
for water line breaks and ISDS (onsite) systems, is infeasible. This language was based on a similar 
provision in Regulation #61 at 61.8(3)(r) and the Commission finds it appropriate to provide the same 
level of flexibility to the Division in imposing the technology-based requirements of this regulation to 
sources not subject to federal secondary treatment requirements. Finally, the Commission moved former 
section 62.5(2) to section 62.4 as it is directly relevant to the limits identified in the following section 
62.4(1). 
The Commission modified footnote 6 (now footnote 5) of section 62.4(1) to expand the exemption from 
the limit for total residual chlorine to discharges to ground water. Similar to the basis for the exemption for 
discharges to irrigation ditches, this is appropriate as there is no aquatic life use assigned to ground 
water. The Commission deleted the section regarding the setting of limitations for fecal coliform as limits 
for bacteriological indicator organisms (E. coli at present) are established in accordance with section 61.3 
of the discharge permit regulations and section 31.14 of the basic standards. 
The Commission modified section 61.4(5) to provide that onsite treatment systems are not required to 
collect samples of their effluent as it is generally impractical to collect samples from the bottom of a leach 
field. This condition will work in tandem with the modifications to section 62.4 allowing for the 
implementation of BMPs in lieu of requiring numeric limits. 
The Commission deleted section 62.5(1) (Technical Data), as Regulation #61 (61.8(4)(j)) requires 
monitoring of discharges in accordance with EPA approved methods rather than the methods identified in 
this section. As was previously noted, section 62.5(2) was moved to section 62.4. The Commission also 
found that the “Technical Data” heading for section 62.5 does not accurately describe the remaining items 
in that section and deleted the heading and added the remaining items to section 62.4. 
PARTIES TO THE RULEMAKING HEARING 
1. 
City of Colorado Springs and Colorado Springs Utilities 
2. 
City and County of Denver 
62.19 
STATEMENT OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY, AND PURPOSE; JUNE 11, 
2012 RULEMAKING, EFFECTIVE JULY 30, 2012 
The provisions of sections 25-8-202(1) and 25-8-501(3), C.R.S., provide the specific statutory authority 
for adoption of the attached regulatory amendments. The Commission also adopted, in compliance with 
section 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the following statement of basis and purpose. 
BASIS AND PURPOSE 
The Commission revised section 62.1 to state that in addition to the Commission office and the state 
publications depository library, copies of materials incorporated by reference also can be viewed at the 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (“EPA”) Technical Library in Denver. This revision was made for 
consistency with new rulemaking requirements in the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act, section 24-
4-103, C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-62 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
11 
The Commission revised section 62.4(2) to address situations where a particular industry sector is subject 
to the numeric limitations in Regulation 62, and EPA subsequently promulgates an effluent limitation 
guideline (“ELG”) that does not include numeric effluent limitations (but rather practice-based effluent 
limits) for one or more of the applicable parameters. These revisions provide that where the federal ELG 
sets forth numeric limits for parameters that are also included in Regulation 62, the sector must adhere to 
the numeric limit specified in the ELG. Where, however, the federal ELG does not specify a numeric 
limitation for a certain parameter and Regulation 62 does, the regulation allows flexibility for the numeric 
limitation in Regulation 62 to remain applicable to that sector. 
The Commission also revised section 62.5(2) to make a clearer distinction between CBOD5, BOD5, and 
TSS removal requirements for domestic sources and industrial sources. For industrial sources, the 
Commission found it appropriate to grant the Division discretion to substitute, in certain cases, lower 
percent removal requirements or mass loading limits for the 85 percent removal requirements found in 
that subsection. The Commission also gave the Division discretion to exempt certain industrial sources 
from the further removal requirements of that subsection where the Division determines that the numeric 
limitations for CBOD5, BOD5, and TSS are sufficient. 
The Commission also took this opportunity to make minor stylistic edits to the Regulation, such as 
deleting unnecessary wording in section 62.4(3), changing the term “municipality” to “permittee” in section 
62.5(3) to include industrial dischargers, and abbreviating references to the Water Quality Control 
Commission and Division. 
62.20 
STATEMENT OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY, AND PURPOSE; MARCH 9, 
2020 RULEMAKING, FINAL ACTION APRIL 13, 2020, EFFECTIVE DATE JUNE 14, 2020 
The provisions of sections 25-8-202(1) and 25-8-501(3), C.R.S., provide the specific statutory authority 
for adoption of the attached regulatory amendments. The Commission also adopted, in compliance with 
section 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the following statement of basis and purpose. 
BASIS AND PURPOSE 
The Commission modified section 62.5(5) from “individual sewage disposal systems (ISDS)” to “on-site 
wastewater treatment systems (OWTS)” to reflect the change resulting from the 2012 modifications to the 
governing statutes in the Colorado On-site Wastewater Treatment Systems Act, C.R.S., 25-10-101, et 
seq. The Commission also modified section 62.5(5) to clarify the original intent, as noted in section 62.18, 
to provide that onsite treatment systems consisting of a septic tank and soil treatment area are typically 
not required to collect samples of their effluent for BOD and TSS where the soil treatment is designed to 
meet secondary treatment standards, as it is generally impractical to collect samples from the underside 
of a soil treatment area. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 03/30/2008. 
Entire rule eff. 07/30/2012. 
Rules 62.5(5), 62.20 eff. 06/14/2020.
