---
id: "5_CCR_1002-86"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "86 requirements) can be limited to the existing graywater treatment works and that no additional"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=11291&fileName=5%20CCR%201002-86&type=pdf"
---

#### 5_CCR_1002-86. 86 requirements) can be limited to the existing graywater treatment works and that no additional

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
Water Quality Control Commission 
REGULATION NO. 86 - GRAYWATER CONTROL REGULATION 
5 CCR 1002-86 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
86.1 
Authority 
This regulation is promulgated pursuant to the Colorado Water Quality Control Act (CWQCA) sections 25-
8-101 through 25-8-1008, C.R.S. In particular, it is promulgated under section 25-8-205(1)(g), C.R.S. 
86.2 
Purpose and Scope 
A. 
Purpose 
Graywater is expected to carry human pathogens with various risk levels and pathways that have 
the potential to be dangerous to public health. Therefore, the purpose of this regulation, as 
authorized by section 25-8-205(1)(g), is to describe requirements, prohibitions, and standards for 
the use of graywater for nondrinking water purposes, to encourage the use of graywater, and to 
protect public health and water quality. 
B. 
Scope 
This regulation establishes the allowed users and allowed uses of graywater within the state of 
Colorado; establishes the minimum state-wide standards for the location, design, construction, 
operation, installation, modification of graywater treatment works; and establishes the minimum 
ordinance or resolution requirements for a city, city and county, or county that chooses to 
authorize graywater use within its jurisdiction. 
86.3 
Severability 
The provisions of this regulation are severable, and if any provisions or the application of the provisions to 
any circumstances is held invalid, the application of such provision to other circumstances, and the 
remainder of this regulation shall not be affected thereby. 
86.4 
Voluntary Local Graywater Control Programs 
Each local city, city and county, or county has the discretion to decide whether to adopt any of the 
graywater uses along with the associated minimum design criteria and control measures set forth in this 
regulation. 
86.5 
Materials Incorporated by Reference 
The materials incorporated by reference cited herein include only those versions that were in effect as of 
November 13, 2023 and not later amendments to the incorporated material. 
All materials referenced in this regulation may be examined online, where available, or at the Water 
Quality Control Division, at the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, 4300 Cherry 
Creek Drive South, Denver, Colorado 80246-1530. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
2 
86.6 
Applicability 
A. 
All graywater uses and graywater treatment works must comply with the minimum requirements 
of this regulation as set forth in a local graywater control program. 
1. 
Graywater treatment works may only be installed and operated within the jurisdiction of a 
city, city and county, or county with a local graywater control program. 
2. 
Graywater treatment works installed prior to the effective date of this regulation are only 
allowed under a local graywater control program and must meet the local requirements 
adopted pursuant to these regulations. Graywater treatment works that reuse graywater 
for outdoor subsurface irrigation which were approved by a local public health agency 
prior to May 15, 2013 and pursuant to 5 CCR 1002-43, section 43.4(J) or pursuant to 5 
CCR 1003-6, section IV.J, and which are in compliance with all requirements imposed by 
the local public health agency, are deemed to be in compliance with the requirements of 
this regulation unless or until any modification to the graywater treatment works is made. 
3. 
Approved graywater treatment works installed prior to the effective date of this regulation 
are deemed to be in compliance with the requirements of this regulation unless or until 
any modification to the graywater treatment works is made; or the local agency identifies 
an environmental or public health risk with the existing treatment works’ historically 
approved design and revokes or rescinds approval. Upon revoking or rescinding 
approval, the local agency has up to 365 days to upgrade any existing graywater 
treatment works to meet the requirements of the local graywater control program’s 
ordinance or resolution. 
4. 
Graywater treatment works installed under a local graywater control program which is 
later revoked or rescinded must within 365 days: 
a. 
Be physically removed or permanently disconnected; or 
b. 
Be regulated under a limited graywater control program for existing graywater 
treatment works. In this case, the local city, city and county, or county must 
continue the limited graywater control program for the existing graywater 
treatment works only; or 
c. 
Be regulated under another jurisdiction’s local graywater control program which 
assumes authority over the existing graywater treatment works. The existing 
graywater treatment works will need to comply with the new city, city and county, 
or county’s local graywater control program, including any required graywater 
treatment works modifications. 
5. 
In the event that a property with a compliant graywater treatment works is annexed or de-
annexed into a jurisdiction with differing graywater requirements, the property owner must 
within 365 days: 
a. 
Ensure the graywater treatment works is physically removed or permanently 
disconnected; or 
b. 
Ensure the graywater treatment works is incorporated into another city, city and 
county, or county’s local graywater control program. This includes conforming to 
the minimum requirements of the new local graywater control program and may 
include improving or modifying the graywater treatment works.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
3 
6. 
A local agency that is subject to one of the control regulations 5 CCR 1002-71 through 
1002-75 must notify the control basin authority of its plan to adopt a local graywater 
control program prior to adopting an ordinance or resolution. The graywater control 
program must require that the use of graywater be in compliance with any applicable 
requirements in 5 CCR 1002-71 through 1002-75. 
B. 
Graywater use is only allowed under a local graywater control program and must meet the local 
requirements adopted pursuant to these regulations. Unauthorized graywater use and discharges 
are prohibited. 
C. 
This regulation does not apply to: discharges pursuant to a Colorado Discharge Permit System 
(CDPS) or National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit, wastewater that has 
been treated and released to state waters prior to subsequent use, wastewater that has been 
treated and used at a domestic wastewater treatment works for landscape irrigation or process 
uses, on-site wastewater treatment works authorized under Regulation No. 43, reclaimed 
wastewater authorized under Regulation No. 84, water used in an industrial process that is 
internally recycled, and rainwater harvesting. 
D. 
Local agencies have 365 days from the effective date of this regulation to update their local 
graywater ordinance or resolution to be at least as stringent as this regulation. 
86.7 
Enforcement and Division Oversight 
A. 
The local city, city and county, or county with a local graywater control program has exclusive 
enforcement authority regarding compliance with the ordinance or resolution and, if applicable, 
rule. 
B. 
The Colorado Water Quality Control Division oversees state-wide implementation of this 
regulation. As part of the state-wide implementation, a local city, city and county, or county that 
chooses to adopt a local graywater control program must notify the Water Quality Control Division 
at least 60 days prior to scheduling adoption of an ordinance or resolution. A copy of the 
ordinance or resolution and, if applicable, rule must be submitted to: Water Quality Control 
Division, Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, 4300 Cherry Creek Drive 
South, Denver, Colorado 80246-1530. All local graywater control program ordinances or 
resolutions must be transmitted to the division no later than five (5) business days after final 
adoption. 
C. 
Any portions of the local ordinance or resolution determined by the division not to be in 
compliance with this regulation must be revised by the local city, city and county, or county within 
180 days of written notification by the division. 
86.8 
Definitions 
(1) 
“Agronomic rate” means the rate of application of nutrients to plants that is necessary to satisfy 
the nutritional requirements of the plants. 
(2) 
“Agricultural irrigation” means irrigation of crops produced for direct human consumption, crops 
where lactating dairy animals forage, and trees that produce nuts or fruit intended for human 
consumption. This definition includes household gardens and fruit trees. 
(3) 
“Backflow Contamination Event” means backflow into a public water system or potable water 
system from an uncontrolled cross connection such that the water quality no longer meets the 
Colorado Primary Drinking Water Regulations or presents an immediate health and/or safety risk 
to the public.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
4 
(4) 
“Backflow Prevention Assembly” means any mechanical assembly installed at a water service 
line or at a plumbing fixture to prevent a backflow contamination event, provided that the 
mechanical assembly is appropriate for the identified contaminant at the cross connection and is 
an in-line field-testable assembly. 
(5) 
“Backflow Prevention Method” means any method and/or non-testable device installed at a water 
service line or at a plumbing fixture to prevent a backflow contamination event, provided that the 
method or non-testable device is appropriate for the identified contaminant at the cross 
connection. 
(6) 
“Base Flood” means the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any 
given year. This 1-percent annual chance flood is also referred to as the 100-year flood. 
(7) 
“Base Flood Elevation (BFE)” - The elevation shown on a FEMA Flood Insurance Rate Map for 
Zones AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, AR/AO that indicates the water 
surface elevation resulting from a flood that has a one percent chance of equaling or exceeding 
that level in any given year. 
(8) 
“Closed sewerage system” means either a permitted domestic wastewater treatment works, 
which includes a permitted and properly functioning OWTS with a design capacity more than 
2,000 gallons per day (gpd), or a properly functioning and approved or permitted OWTS with a 
design capacity of 2,000 gpd or less. 
(9) 
“Commission” means the Water Quality Control Commission created by section 25-8-201, C.R.S. 
(10) 
“Component” means a subpart of a graywater treatment works which may include multiple 
devices. 
(11) 
“Cross-Connection” means any connection that could allow any water, fluid, or gas such that the 
water quality could present an unacceptable health and/or safety risk to the public, to flow from 
any pipe, plumbing fixture, or a customer’s water system into a public water system’s distribution 
system or any other part of the public water system through backflow. 
(12) 
“Design” means the process of selecting and documenting in writing the size, calculations, site 
specific data, location, equipment specification and configuration of treatment components that 
match site characteristics and facility use. 
(13) 
“Design flow” means the estimated volume of graywater per unit of time for which a component or 
graywater treatment works is designed. 
(14) 
“Dispersed subsurface irrigation” means a subsurface irrigation system including piping, pumps, 
and emitters installed throughout an irrigation area. 
(15) 
“Division” means the Water Quality Control Division of the Colorado Department of Public Health 
and Environment. 
(16) 
“ENERGY STAR (ENERGY STAR®)” means the Environmental Protection Agency’s designation 
for energy efficient appliance as authorized by 42 U.S.C. Section 6294a. (Note: Determination of 
whether the appliance is designated, has an IWF and to determine the IWF, visit the Department 
of Energy’s ENERGY STAR Certified Residential Clothes Washers website: 
https://www.energystar.gov/productfinder/product/certified-clothes-washers/)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
5 
(17) 
“Facility” means any building, structure, or installation, or any combination thereof that uses 
graywater subject to a local graywater control program, is located on one or more contiguous or 
adjacent properties, and is owned or operated by the same person or legal entity. Facility is 
synonymous with the term operation. 
(18) 
“Floodplain (100-year)” means an area adjacent to a river or other watercourse which is subject to 
flooding as the result of the occurrence of a one hundred (100) year flood, and is so adverse to 
past, current or foreseeable construction or land use as to constitute a significant hazard to public 
or environmental health and safety or to property or is designated by the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency (FEMA) or National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). In the absence of 
FEMA/NFIP maps, a professional engineer shall certify the floodplain elevations. 
(19) 
“Floodway” means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that 
must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the water 
surface elevation more than one foot or as designated by the Federal Emergency Management 
Agency or National Flood Insurance Program. In the absence of FEMA/NFIP maps, a 
professional engineer shall certify the floodway elevation and location. 
(20) 
“Graywater" means that portion of wastewater that, before being treated or combined with other 
wastewater, is collected from fixtures within residential, commercial, or industrial buildings or 
institutional facilities for the purpose of being put to beneficial uses. Sources of graywater are 
limited to discharges from bathroom and laundry room sinks, bathtubs, showers, and laundry 
machines. Graywater does not include the wastewater from toilets, urinals, kitchen sinks, 
dishwashers, or nonlaundry utility sinks. 
(21) 
"Graywater treatment works" means an arrangement of devices and structures used to: (a) collect 
graywater from within a building or a facility; and (b) treat, neutralize, or stabilize graywater within 
the same building or facility to the level necessary for its authorized uses. 
(22) 
“Indirect connection” means a waste pipe from a graywater treatment works that does not 
connect directly with the closed sewerage system, but that discharges into the closed sewerage 
system though an air break or air gap into a trap, fixture, receptor, or interceptor. 
(23) 
“Integrated Water Factor (IWF)” means a measure of water efficiency in gallons of water 
consumed per cubic foot of capacity. 
(24) 
“Laundry to Landscape” means a form of graywater treatment works designed to reuse water 
from a laundry machine for mulch basin subsurface irrigation. 
(25) 
“Legally responsible party” 
(1) 
For a residential property, the legally responsible party is the property owner. 
(2) 
For a corporation, the legally responsible party is a responsible corporate officer, either: 
(i) 
a president, secretary, treasurer, or vice-president of the corporation in charge of 
a principal business function, or any other person who performs similar policy- or 
decision-making functions for the corporation, or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
6 
(ii) 
the manager of operating facilities, provided, the manager is authorized to make 
management decisions which govern the operation of the regulated facility 
including having the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment 
recommendations, and initiating and directing other comprehensive measures to 
assure long term environmental compliance with environmental laws and 
regulations; the manager can ensure that the necessary systems are established 
or actions taken to gather complete and accurate information for approval 
application requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been 
assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures. 
(3) 
For a partnership or sole proprietorship, the legally responsible party is either a general 
partner or the proprietor, respectively. 
(4) 
For a municipality, State, Federal, or other public agency, the legally responsible party is 
a principal executive officer or ranking elected official, either 
(i) 
the chief executive officer of the agency, or 
(ii) 
a senior executive officer having responsibility for the overall operations of a 
principal geographic unit of the agency (e.g., Regional Administrators of EPA). 
(26) 
“Limited local graywater control program” is a local graywater control program limited to existing 
graywater treatment works and which does not accept new graywater treatment works. 
(27) 
“Local agency” means any local city, city or county, county agency including, but not limited to, a 
department, local public health agency, or district which is delegated the authority to administer 
all or a portion of the responsibilities of the local graywater control program. 
(28) 
“Local graywater control program” is a local ordinance or resolution and, if applicable, rule, 
including implementation practices, authorized by a city, city and county or county which is in 
compliance with the minimum requirements of this regulation. 
(29) 
“Local public health agency” means any county, district, or municipal public health agency and 
may include a county, district, or municipal board of health. 
(30) 
“Modification” means the alteration or replacement of any component of a graywater treatment 
works that can affect the quality of the finished water, the rated capacity of a graywater treatment 
works, the graywater use, alters the treatment process of a graywater treatment works, or 
compliance with this regulation and the local graywater control program. This definition does not 
include normal operations and maintenance of a graywater treatment works. 
(31) 
“Mulch” means organic material including but not limited to leaves, prunings, straw, pulled weeds, 
and wood chips. 
(32) 
“Mulch basin” means a type of subsurface irrigation or treatment field filled with mulch or other 
approved permeable material of sufficient depth, length, and width to prevent ponding or runoff. A 
mulch basin may include a basin around a tree, a trough along a row of plants, or other shapes 
necessary for irrigation. 
(33) 
“On-site wastewater treatment system” or "OWTS" means an absorption system of any size or 
flow or a system or facility for treating, neutralizing, stabilizing, or dispersing sewage generated in 
the vicinity, which system is not a part of or connected to a sewage treatment works.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
7 
(34) 
“Percolation test” means a subsurface soil test at the depth of a proposed irrigation area to 
determine the water absorption capability of the soil, the results of which are normally expressed 
as the rate at which one inch of water is absorbed. The rate is expressed in minutes per inch. 
(35) 
“Potable water system” means a system for the provision of water to the public for human 
consumption through pipes or other constructed conveyances, where such system has less than 
fifteen service connections or regularly serves less than an average of at least 25 individuals daily 
at least 60 days per year. 
(36) 
“Professional engineer” means an engineer licensed in accordance with section 12-25-1, C.R.S. 
(37) 
“Public nuisance” means the unreasonable, unwarranted and/or unlawful use of property, which 
causes inconvenience or damage to others, including to an individual or to the general public. 
(38) 
“Public water system” means a system for the provision of water to the public for human 
consumption through pipes or other constructed conveyances, if such system has at least fifteen 
service connections or regularly serves an average of at least 25 individuals daily at least 60 days 
per year. A public water system is either a community water system or a non-community water 
system. Such term does not include any special irrigation district. Such term includes: 
(a) 
Any collection, treatment, storage, and distribution facilities under control of the supplier 
of such system and used primarily in connection with such system. 
(b) 
Any collection or pretreatment storage facilities not under such control, which are used 
primarily in connection with such system. 
(39) 
“Single family” means a detached or attached structure, arranged and designed as a single family 
residential unit intended to be occupied by not more than one family and that has separate water 
and sewer service connections from other dwelling units. 
(40) 
“Site evaluation” means an analysis of soil and site conditions for a graywater subsurface 
irrigation or mulch basin area to achieve requirements in Section 86.12(B) – Design criteria for 
subsurface irrigation systems, including mulch basins. 
(41) 
“Soil horizon” means layers in the soil column differentiated by changes in texture, color, 
redoximorphic features, bedrock, structure, consistence, and any other characteristic that affects 
water movement. 
(42) 
“Soil profile test pit” means a trench or other excavation used for access to evaluate the soil 
horizons for properties influencing effluent movement, bedrock, evidence of seasonal high ground 
water, and other information to be used in locating and designing a graywater subsurface 
irrigation or mulch basin area. 
(43) 
“Soil structure” means the naturally occurring combination or arrangement of primary soil particles 
into secondary units or peds; secondary units are characterized on the basis of shape, size class, 
and grade (degree of distinctness). 
(44) 
“Suitable soil” means unsaturated soil in which the movement of water, air, and growth of roots is 
sustained to support healthy plant life and conserve moisture. Soil criteria for graywater 
subsurface irrigation are further defined in section 86.12. 
(45) 
“Subsurface irrigation” means a discharge of graywater into soil a minimum of two inches (2”) and 
no deeper than twelve inches (12”) below the finished grade.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
8 
(46) 
“State waters” means any and all surface and subsurface waters which are contained in or flow in 
or through this state, but does not include waters in sewage systems, waters in treatment works 
of disposal systems, waters in potable water distribution systems, and all water withdrawn for use 
until use and treatment have been completed. 
(47) 
“WaterSense” means the Environmental Protection Agency’s designation for water efficient 
fixtures or an analogous successor program. 
Table 8-1 Abbreviations and Acronyms 
 
ANSI  
American National Standards Institute  
C.R.S.  
Colorado Revised Statutes  
CDPS 
Colorado Discharge Permit System 
FEMA 
Federal Emergency Management Agency 
gpd  
gallons per day  
IWF 
Integrated Water Factor 
LA 
Landscape Area 
LRG 
Loading Rate for Graywater 
MAC 
Maximum Absorption Capacity 
mg/L  
milligrams per Liter  
MPI  
Minutes Per Inch  
NFIP 
National Flood Insurance Program 
NSF  
NSF International, formally known as National Sanitation Foundation  
O&M 
Operations and Maintenance 
OWTS  
On-site Wastewater Treatment System(s)  
86.9 
Administration 
A. 
Local Coordination 
Nothing in this regulation shall be deemed to limit the authority of local cities, cities and counties, or 
counties, pursuant to section 29-1-203, C.R.S., to enter into intergovernmental agreements with each 
other pertaining to the coordinated adoption and operation of local graywater control program. 
B. 
Minimum Requirements for a Local Graywater Control Program 
1. 
The local city, city and county, or county that chooses to authorize graywater use within 
its jurisdiction must adopt an ordinance or resolution which meets the following minimum 
requirements:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
9 
a. 
Require compliance with the minimum requirements of this regulation. 
b. 
Require compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local requirements. 
c. 
Define the legal boundary of the local city, city and county, or county’s local 
graywater control program. If the area in which graywater treatment works are 
allowed by a local control program is smaller than the maximum legal boundary, 
then the excluded area must be clearly identified. 
d. 
Identify the local agency, or agencies, that is responsible for oversight and 
implementation of all graywater regulatory activities including, but not limited to, 
design review, inspection, enforcement, tracking, and complaints. 
e. 
Identify if a fee(s) will be imposed for graywater activities, and if so, which local 
agency establishes the fee(s) and where fee(s) information is located. 
f. 
Require a searchable tracking mechanism that is indefinitely maintained by the 
local agency that must include, at a minimum, the following information: 
i. 
Legal address of each facility with graywater treatment works, allowed 
graywater uses at each facility, and a graywater treatment works 
description; 
ii. 
The legally responsible party associated with every graywater treatment 
works; 
iii. 
Where required, the certified operator associated with every graywater 
treatment works; and 
iv. 
Any changes to the legally responsible party, certified operator, and 
status of the graywater treatment works must be updated within 60 days. 
g. 
Require the local agency to administer and enforce the provisions of the 
ordinance or resolution, and where applicable for certain program elements, the 
rule. 
2. 
The local city, city and county, or county that chooses to authorize graywater use within 
its jurisdiction must adopt an ordinance, resolution or rule which meets the following 
minimum requirements: 
a. 
Require a local agency to develop a graywater design criteria document, which 
includes the following: 
i. 
Requirements that are at least as stringent as the minimum design 
requirements in this regulation; and 
ii. 
Define a site evaluation protocol for subsurface irrigation systems as 
defined in section 86.12(B)(1)(i)(i). 
b. 
Identify which graywater use categories as defined in section 86.10 are allowed 
within the legal boundary of the local graywater control program.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
10 
c. 
Require a local agency to approve or deny the installation of new graywater 
treatment works or modifications to an existing graywater treatment works, and 
as part of the review process the local agency(ies) must consider the design 
documentation associated with the graywater treatment works, which must 
include the following information: 
i. 
The graywater uses; 
ii. 
Location of the graywater treatment system; 
iii. 
Design flow calculations for the graywater treatment works; 
iv. 
The fixture(s) that are the source(s) of the graywater; 
v. 
The design of the plumbing and irrigation system for non-single family 
uses (Categories B2, C2 and D2 in section 86.10); 
vi. 
A description of the products or components; 
vii. 
If applicable, any supporting soil analysis information for subsurface 
irrigation uses; 
viii. 
Contact information for system designer or professional engineer and 
operator for non-single family graywater treatment works with a design 
capacity greater than 2,000 gallons per day; 
ix. 
Name and address of the legally responsible party; and 
x. 
Must be signed by the legally responsible party. 
d. 
Require that graywater treatment works be inspected or verified and accepted by 
the local agency, in a format or means specified by the local agency. 
e. 
Require an operation and maintenance (O&M) manual (section 86.15), including 
the manufacturer’s manual (if any) for all graywater treatment works, and require 
that the O&M manual meet the following: 
i. 
Remain with the graywater treatment works throughout the life of the 
system; 
ii. 
Be updated at the time the system is modified; and 
iii. 
Upon change of ownership or occupancy of the property where the 
graywater treatment works is located, transfer to the new owner or 
tenant. 
f. 
If reporting to the local city, city and county, county, or local agency is required, 
identify the reporting requirements, including the required parameters and the 
required frequency. 
C. 
Discontinuation of local graywater program 
A local city, city and county, and county that decides to revoke or rescind an adopted local 
graywater control program must require that all previously allowed graywater treatment works 
either:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
11 
1. 
Be physically removed or permanently disconnected; or 
2. 
Be regulated under a limited graywater control program for existing graywater treatment 
works. In this case, the local city, city and county, or county must continue a limited 
graywater control program for the existing graywater treatment works. The limited 
graywater program must include a graywater control program for the existing graywater 
treatment works but no new graywater treatment works. At a minimum, the limited 
graywater control program must include items: 86.9(B)(1)(a), 86.9(B)(1)(b), 86.9(B)(1)(d), 
86.9(B)(1)(f), 86.9(B)(1)(g) and 86.9(B)(2)(e). If the limited graywater control program 
allows modifications to existing treatment works then items 86.9(B)(2)(a), 86.9(B)(2)(b), 
and 86.9(B)(2)(c) must also be included; or 
3. 
Be regulated under another jurisdiction’s local graywater control program which assumes 
authority over the existing graywater treatment works. The existing graywater treatment 
works will need to comply with the new city, city and county, or county’s local graywater 
control program, including any required graywater treatment works modifications. 
86.10 
Graywater Use Categories 
General: The graywater use categories allowed are defined below. A single facility may have multiple 
graywater treatment works and uses as long as all applicable use and design requirements are satisfied.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
12 
Table 10-1: Graywater Use Categories and Corresponding Applications and Requirement 
Locations 
 
 
Graywater 
Use 
Category 
Use 
Graywater 
Source(s) 
End Use 
Flow 
Projections 
Location 
Design 
Criteria 
Location 
(86.12(A) 
applies to 
all 
graywater 
treatment 
works) 
Signage 
Requirements 
for Graywater 
Treatment 
Works 
(86.13(A) 
applies to all 
graywater 
treatment 
works) 
Control 
Measures for 
Graywater Use 
Categories 
(86.14(B) 
applies to all 
Graywater Use 
Categories) 
A1 
Single family 
subsurface 
irrigation of 
landscapes 
and edible 
crops 
Laundry 
Machines 
Outdoor mulch 
basins (single 
family dwelling) 
86.11(A)(1)(a) 86.12(B)(1) 
and (2) 
None required 86.14(C) 
B1 
Single family 
subsurface 
irrigation of 
landscapes 
and edible 
crops 
All allowed 
graywater 
sources 
Outdoor 
subsurface 
irrigation and 
mulch basins 
(single family 
dwelling) 
86.11(A)(1)(a) 86.12(B)(1) 
and (3) 
None required 86.14(C) 
B2 
Non-single 
family 
subsurface 
irrigation of 
landscapes  
All allowed 
graywater 
sources 
Outdoor 
subsurface 
irrigation and 
mulch basins 
(non-single 
family) 
86.11(A)(1)(b) 86.12(B)(1) 
and (3) 
86.13(B)(1) 
86.14(C) 
C1 
Single family 
indoor toilet 
and urinal 
flushing 
All allowed 
graywater 
sources 
Indoor toilet and 
urinal flushing 
(single family 
dwelling) 
86.11(A)(1)(a) 86.12(C)(1) None required 86.14(D) 
C2 
Non-single 
family indoor 
toilet and 
urinal 
flushing 
All allowed 
graywater 
sources 
Indoor toilet and 
urinal flushing 
(non-single 
family) 
86.11(A)(1)(b) 86.12(C)(2) 86.13(B)(2) 
86.14(D) 
D1 
Single family 
rural fire 
protection 
All allowed 
graywater 
sources 
Indoor/outdoor 
firefighting, 
storage tank 
outdoor (single 
family dwelling) 
86.11(A)(1)(a) 86.12(D)(1) 86.13(B)(3) 
86.14(E) 
D2 
Non-single 
family rural 
fire 
protection 
All allowed 
graywater 
sources 
Indoor/outdoor 
firefighting, 
storage tank 
outdoor (non-
single family) 
86.11(A)(1)(b) 86.12(D)(2) 86.13(B)(3) 
86.14(E)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
13 
A. 
Category A1: Laundry to Landscape 
Category A1 graywater use must meet the following: 
1. 
Allowed users: Single family. 
2. 
Allowed graywater sources: Graywater collected from laundry machines. 
3. 
Allowed uses: Outdoor, mulch basin irrigation within the confines of the legal property 
boundary for: 
a. 
Landscapes, and 
b. 
Edible crops. 
4. 
Design flow: The design flow for a single family, Laundry to Landscape for subsurface 
irrigation is limited to 250 gallons per day (gpd) or less. 
B. 
Category B1: Single family, subsurface irrigation 
Category B1 graywater use must meet the following: 
1. 
Allowed users: Single family. 
2. 
Allowed graywater sources: Graywater collected from bathroom and laundry room sinks, 
bathtubs, showers, and laundry machines. 
3. 
Allowed uses: Outdoor, subsurface irrigation within the confines of the legal property 
boundary for: 
a. 
Landscapes, and 
b. 
Edible crops. 
4. 
Design flow: The design flow for a single family graywater treatment works is limited to a 
400 gallons per day (gpd) or less combined flow for all approved uses. 
C. 
Category B2: Non-single family, subsurface irrigation, 2,000 gallons per day (gpd) or less 
Category B2 graywater use must meet the following: 
1. 
Allowed users: Non-single family users. 
2. 
Allowed graywater sources: Graywater collected from bathroom and laundry room sinks, 
bathtubs, showers, and laundry machines. 
3. 
Allowed uses: Outdoor, subsurface irrigation within the confines of the legal property 
boundary for: 
a. 
Landscapes. 
4. 
Design flow: The design flow for a non-single family graywater treatment works is limited 
to 2,000 gallons per day (gpd) or less for outdoor irrigation for the entire facility.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
14 
D. 
Category C1: Single family, indoor toilet and urinal flushing 
Category C1 graywater use must meet the following: 
1. 
Allowed users: Single family. 
2. 
Allowed graywater sources: Graywater collected from bathroom and laundry room sinks, 
bathtubs, showers, and laundry machines. 
3. 
Allowed uses: Indoor toilet and urinal flushing and outdoor, subsurface irrigation within 
the confines of the legal property boundary. Treated graywater shall not be used for 
bidets. 
4. 
Design flow: The design flow for a single family graywater treatment works is limited to 
400 gallons per day (gpd) or less combined flow for all approved uses. 
E. 
Category C2: Non-single family, indoor toilet and urinal flushing 
Category C2 graywater use must meet the following: 
1. 
Allowed users: Non-single family users. 
2. 
Allowed graywater sources: Graywater collected from bathroom and laundry room sinks, 
bathtubs, showers, and laundry machines. 
3. 
Allowed uses: Indoor toilet and urinal flushing and outdoor, subsurface irrigation within 
the confines of the legal property boundary. Treated graywater shall not be used for 
bidets. 
4. 
Design flow: There is no maximum design flow for a non-single family graywater 
treatment works for indoor toilet and urinal flushing. The design flow is limited to 2,000 
gallons per day (gpd) or less for outdoor irrigation for the entire facility. 
F. 
Category D1: Single family rural fire protection 
Category D1 graywater use must meet the following: 
1. 
Allowed users: Single family users in areas that local rules allow homes of certain sizes 
to have a water storage cistern on the property for fire protection if the local fire 
district/authority agrees to graywater use for fire protection prior to its adoption and use in 
a local city, city and county or county. 
2. 
Allowed graywater sources: Graywater collected from bathroom and laundry room sinks, 
bathtubs, showers, and laundry machines. 
3. 
Allowed uses: Outdoor storage in a watertight non-potable cistern and used solely for 
firefighting within the confines of the legal property boundary. 
4. 
Design flow: The design flow for a single family graywater treatment works is limited to 
400 gallons per day (gpd) or less combined flow for all approved uses.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
15 
G. 
Category D2: Non-single family rural fire protection 
Category D2 graywater use must meet the following: 
1. 
Allowed users: Non-single family users in areas that local rules allow homes of certain 
sizes to have a water storage cistern on the properties for fire protection if the local fire 
district/authority agrees to graywater use for fire protection prior to its adoption and use in 
a local city, city and county or county. 
2. 
Allowed graywater sources: Graywater collected from bathroom and laundry room sinks, 
bathtubs, showers, and laundry machines. 
3. 
Allowed uses: Outdoor storage in a watertight non-potable cistern and used solely for fire 
fighting within the confines of the legal property boundary. 
4. 
Design flow: There is no maximum design flow for a non-single family graywater 
treatment works for storing graywater in an onsite cistern for rural fire protection. 
86.11 
Graywater Treatment Works – Flow Projections 
A. 
Flow projections for all graywater treatment works 
1. 
Graywater treatment works must be sized appropriately using the following flow 
projection methods: 
a. 
Single family users: Flow to graywater treatment works must be calculated on the 
occupancy and the fixtures connected to the graywater treatment works. The 
calculated graywater flow is the number of occupants multiplied by the estimated 
graywater flow in terms of gpd/occupant from the fixtures connected to the 
graywater treatment works. For Laundry to Landscape, flow is calculated based 
on the number and type of laundry machines connected to the system. 
i. 
The occupancy must be calculated based on a minimum of two (2) 
occupants for the first bedroom and one (1) occupant for each additional 
bedroom. In all cases, the maximum occupancy must be based on the 
maximum potential use of the property and not the current population or 
use. 
ii. 
The estimated graywater flow from each fixture is based on the design 
flow of the fixture, or if the fixture’s design flow is unknown then the 
estimated graywater flow per occupant is based on the following gallons 
per day per occupant (gpd/occupant). 
(a) 
Non-WaterSense fixtures: 25 gpd/occupant for each bathroom 
and laundry room sink, bathtub and shower. 
(b) 
WaterSense fixtures: 20 gpd/occupant for each bathroom and 
laundry room sink, bathtub and shower. 
(c) 
Laundry machines: 
1. 
For ENERGY STAR rated laundry machines with a 
provided Integrated Water Factor, use the following flow 
projection estimate:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
16 
Gpd/occupant = IWF x volume (cu. ft.) x average loads 
per week / maximum number of days occupied per week 
Where: 
IWF = Integrated Water Factor (Note: Determination of 
whether the appliance is designated, has an IWF and to 
determine the IWF, visit the Department of Energy’s 
ENERGY STAR Certified Residential Clothes Washers 
website: 
https://www.energystar.gov/productfinder/product/certifie
d-clothes-washers/) 
Volume = Capacity of laundry machine 
Maximum number of days occupied per week = seven 
(7) 
2. 
For ENERGY STAR rated laundry machines without a 
provided Integrated Water Factor use 8 gpd/occupant for 
each laundry machine. 
3. 
For laundry machines that are not ENERGY STAR rated 
use 10 gpd/occupant for each laundry machine. 
b. 
Non-single family users: Graywater treatment works must be sized in accordance 
with the maximum occupancy and use of the facility. The occupancy must be 
calculated based on the total, maximum daily population served by the graywater 
treatment works including but not limited to employees, visitors, and customers. 
In all cases, the maximum daily population must be based on the maximum 
potential use of the property and not the current population or use. 
i. 
The estimated graywater flow from each fixture is based on the design 
flow of the fixture or, if the fixture’s design flow is unknown, then the 
estimated graywater flow per occupant is based on the gallons per day 
per occupant provided under 86.11(A)(1)(a)(ii) of this regulation. 
86.12 
Graywater Treatment Works - Design Criteria 
A. 
Design criteria for all graywater treatment works 
The following minimum design criteria are required for all graywater treatment works. All 
graywater treatment works must meet and/or comply with the following requirements: 
1. 
Meet all design requirements of this regulation and meet any additional design 
requirements of the Colorado Plumbing Code. 
2. 
Each treatment component or combination of multiple components must have a design 
flow greater than the calculated peak graywater production, if upstream of the storage 
tank or if no tank is present. 
3. 
Include a diversion valve that directs graywater to either the graywater treatment works or 
a closed sewerage system. The diversion valve must be:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
17 
a. 
Easily operable; 
b. 
Clearly labeled; 
c. 
Constructed of material that is durable, corrosion resistant, watertight; 
d. 
Designed to accommodate the inlet and outlet pipes in a secure and watertight 
manner; and 
e. 
Indirectly connect the bypass line to the closed sewerage system. 
4. 
Not have any piping that allows the treatment process(es) or storage tank to be bypassed 
prior to graywater use. 
5. 
Include a tank to collect and store graywater, except for a subsurface irrigation system 
that discharges to a mulch basin. The storage tank must: 
a. 
Be constructed of durable, non-absorbent, water-tight, and corrosion resistant 
materials; 
b. 
Be closed and have access openings for inspection and cleaning; 
c. 
Be vented: 
i. 
for indoor tanks: the tanks must be vented to the atmosphere outside of 
the house; 
ii. 
for outdoor tanks: the storage tank must have a downturned and 
screened vent; 
d. 
Have an overflow line: 
i. 
with the same or larger diameter line as the influent line; 
ii. 
without a shut off valve; 
iii. 
that is trapped to prevent the escape of gas vapors from the tank; and 
iv. 
that is indirectly connected to the closed sewerage system; 
e. 
Have a valved drain line with the same or larger diameter line as the influent line 
that is indirectly connected to the closed sewerage system; 
f. 
Be a minimum of 50 gallons; 
g. 
Be placed on a stable foundation; 
h. 
If located outdoors, not be exposed to direct sunlight; and 
i. 
Have a permanent label that states “CAUTION! NON-POTABLE WATER. DO 
NOT DRINK.”

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
18 
6. 
For indoor toilet or urinal flushing systems (Categories C1 and C2) graywater treatment 
works must have a backup potable water system connection. For subsurface irrigation 
systems (Categories B1 and B2) graywater treatment works may, but are not required to, 
have a backup potable water system that provides potable irrigation water when 
graywater is not being produced or is produced in insufficient quantities. All backup 
potable water system connections must meet the following requirements: 
a. 
For non-public water systems, potable water system connections: uncontrolled 
cross connections between a potable water system and a graywater treatment 
works are prohibited. All cross connections must be protected by a reduced 
pressure principle backflow prevention zone assembly or an approved air gap. 
b. 
For public water systems, potable water system connections: uncontrolled cross 
connections between a public water system and a graywater treatment works are 
prohibited. The graywater treatment works design must protect the public water 
system from cross connections by meeting the requirements of Regulation No. 
11: Colorado Primary Drinking Water Regulations. 
7. 
Not be used as a factor to reduce the design, capacity or soil treatment area 
requirements for OWTS designs per Regulation No. 43 On-site Wastewater Treatment 
System Regulation or domestic wastewater treatment works designs per Regulation No. 
22 Site Location and Design Regulations for Domestic Wastewater Treatment Works. 
8. 
Have any wastewater from graywater treatment works (e.g., filter backwash water) be 
properly contained and disposed into a closed sewerage system or an approved 
Underground Injection Control (UIC) well. 
9. 
Have all graywater piping clearly distinguished and clearly labeled, including pipe 
identification and flow arrows. 
10. 
If located in a 100-year floodplain area, meet or exceed the requirements of FEMA and 
the local emergency agency. The graywater treatment works must be designed to 
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and prevent discharge 
from the system into the floodwaters. 
11. 
Not be located in floodways. 
12. 
Be located within the confines of the legal property boundary and not within an easement. 
B. 
Design criteria for subsurface irrigation systems, including mulch basins (Applicable to Graywater 
Use Categories: A1, B1 and B2) 
1. 
All subsurface irrigation systems (Applicable to Graywater Use Categories: A1, B1 and 
B2): 
The following minimum design criteria are required for all graywater treatment works 
being used for subsurface irrigation. All subsurface graywater irrigation systems must 
comply with the following requirements: 
a. 
Have the subsurface irrigation components of the graywater irrigation system 
installed a minimum of two inches (2”) and a maximum of twelve inches (12”) 
below the finished grade. 
b. 
Have the subsurface irrigation components of the graywater irrigation system 
installed in suitable soil, as defined in section 86.8(44).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
19 
c. 
Have a minimum of twenty-four inches (24”) of suitable soil between the 
subsurface irrigation components of the graywater irrigation system and any 
restrictive soil layer, bedrock, concrete, or the highest water table. Restrictive soil 
layers are soil types 4, 4A, and 5 in Table 12-2. 
d. 
Include controls, such as valves, switches, timers, and other controllers, as 
appropriate, to ensure the distribution of graywater throughout the entire irrigation 
zone. 
e. 
If utilizing emitters, the emitters must be designed to resist root intrusion and be 
of a design recommended by the manufacturer for the intended graywater flow 
and use. Minimum spacing between emitters shall be sufficient to deliver 
graywater at an agronomic rate and to prevent surfacing or runoff. 
f. 
Have all irrigation supply lines be polyethylene tubing or PVC Class 200 pipe or 
better and Schedule 40 fittings. All joints shall be pressure tested at 40 psi (276 
kPa), and shown to be drip tight for five minutes before burial. Drip feeder lines 
can be poly or flexible PVC tubing. 
g. 
Meet the following setback distances in Table 12-1. 
Table 12-1: Graywater Treatment Works Setback Requirements 
 
Minimum Horizontal Distance 
Required from: 
Graywater 
Storage Tank 
Irrigation Field 
Buildings 
5 feet 
2 feet 
Property line adjoining private property 
10 feet 
10 feet 
Property line adjoining private property 
with supporting property line survey 
1.5 feet 
1.5 feet 
Water supply wells 
50 feet 
100 feet 
Streams and lakes 
50 feet 
50 feet 
Seepage pits or cesspools 
5 feet 
5 feet 
OWTS disposal field 
5 feet 
25 feet 
OWTS tank 
5 feet 
10 feet 
Domestic potable water service line 
10 feet 
10 feet 
Public water main 
10 feet 
10 feet 
h. 
The irrigation field must be located on slopes of less than thirty percent (30%) 
from horizontal. 
i. 
Protocols for determining the size of the subsurface irrigation area: 
The irrigation area must be determined using one of the following protocols.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
20 
i) 
Site evaluation protocol: The following site evaluation must be conducted 
to determine the appropriate size of the irrigation area for all subsurface 
irrigation systems. 
The site evaluation must include: 
(a) 
Site information, including: 
(1) 
a site map; and 
(2) 
location of proposed graywater irrigation area in relation 
to physical features requiring setbacks in Table 12-1. 
(b) 
Soil investigation to determine long-term acceptance rate of a 
graywater irrigation area as a design basis. Soil investigation 
must be completed by either: 
(1) 
a visual and tactile evaluation of soil profile test pit, or 
(2) 
a percolation test. 
(c) 
Irrigation rates must not exceed maximum allowable soil loading 
rates in Table 12-2 for Laundry to Landscape systems 
(Graywater Use Category A1), and Table 12-3 for dispersed 
subsurface irrigation systems (Graywater Use Categories B1 and 
B2), based on the finest textured soil in the twenty-four inches 
(24”) of suitable soil beneath the subsurface irrigation 
components. 
(d) 
Suitable soil may consist of original, undisturbed soil or original 
soil that is augmented. Not suitable soil may be augmented as 
needed to ensure suitable soil is used. 
(e) 
If the original soil is augmented, the mixture used for 
augmentation must meet the following criteria to ensure that 
suitable soil is achieved: 
(1) 
The mixture must have an organic content that is at least 
five percent (5%) and no greater than ten percent (10%); 
(2) 
The mixture must be a well blended mix of mineral 
aggregate (soil) and compost where the soil ratio 
depends on the requirements for the plant species; and 
(3) 
The mineral aggregate must have the following 
gradation:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
21 
 
Sieve Size 
Percent Passing 
3/8 
100 
No. 4 
95 - 100 
No. 10 
75 - 90 
No. 40 
25 - 40 
No. 100 
4 - 10 
No. 200 
2 - 5 
(f) 
If the original soil is augmented, the additional soil must be tilled 
into the native soil a minimum of six inches (6”) below irrigation 
application zone. 
2. 
Mulch basin irrigation system requirements (Applicable to Graywater Use Category: A1) 
The following minimum design criteria are required for graywater treatment works using 
mulch basin systems for subsurface irrigation (Applicable to Graywater Use Category: 
A1): 
a. 
Design Specifications: System includes only laundry machine discharge water to 
a mulch basin that is pressurized solely through the laundry machine discharge 
hose and is not treated, filtered, or stored. 
b. 
Mulch shall be permeable enough to allow infiltration of graywater. 
c. 
Piping to mulch basins must discharge a minimum of two inches (2”) below grade 
into a container for dispersal of graywater into the mulch basin. The container 
must be designed to have two inches (2”) of freefall between the invert of the 
discharge pipe and the maximum depth of water in the mulch basin. The 
container must have an access lid for observation of flow and to check mulch 
levels. 
d. 
The mulch basin must have a minimum depth of twelve inches (12”) below grade 
and not more than twenty-four (24”) below grade. 
e. 
A filter is not required for installation. 
f. 
The following irrigation area equation protocols must be used to determine the 
appropriate size of the mulch basin in square feet for single family, Laundry to 
Landscape systems. Use equation (i) if actual graywater flow is unknown, and 
equation (ii) if known. Refer to Table 12-2: Soil Type Description and Maximum 
Hydraulic Loading Rate for LRG.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
22 
Table 12-2: Soil Type Description and Maximum Hydraulic Loading Rate 
 
Soil 
Type 
USDA Soil Texture 
USDA 
Structure – 
Shape 
USDA Soil 
Structure-
Grade 
Percolation 
Rate (MPI) 
Loading Rate for 
Graywater (LRG) 
(gal./sq. ft./day) 
0 
Soil Type 1 with 
more than 35% 
Rock (>2mm); 
Soil Types 2-5 with 
more than 50% 
Rock (>2mm) 
-- 
0 (Single 
Grain) 
Less than 5 
Not suitable without 
augmentation 
 
1.0 with augmentation 
1 
Sand, Loamy Sand 
-- 
0 
5-15 
Not suitable without 
augmentation 
 
1.0 with augmentation 
2 
Sandy Loam, Loam, 
Silt Loam 
PR  BK GR 
2 
(Moderate) 
3 (Strong) 
16-25 
0.8 
2A 
Sandy Loam, Loam, 
Silt Loam 
PR, BK, GR 
0 (none) 
1 (Weak) 
Massive 
26-40 
0.6 
3 
Sandy Clay Loam, 
Clay Loam, Silty 
Clay Loam 
PR, BK, GR 
2, 3 
41-60 
0.4 
3A 
Sandy Clay Loam, 
Clay Loam, Silty 
Clay Loam 
PR, BK, GR 
0 
1 Massive 
61-75 
0.2 
4 
Sandy Clay, Clay, 
Silty Clay 
PR, BK, 
GR 
2, 3 
76-90 
Not suitable 
4A 
Sandy Clay, Clay, 
Silty Clay 
PR, BK, 
GR 0 
1 Massive 
91-120 
Not suitable 
5 
Soil Types 2-4A 
Platy 
1, 2, 3 
121+ 
Not suitable

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
23 
i. 
LA = maximum gallons per day allowed/LRG 
Where: 
The maximum gallons per day allowed is 250 gallons; and 
LRG is the loading rate for graywater from Table 12-2; or 
ii. 
LA = estimated actual graywater flow per day/LRG 
Where: 
The estimated actual graywater flow is derived in 86.11(A)(1)(a)(ii) and; 
LRG is the loading rate for graywater from Table 12-2. 
g. 
Soil types 0 and 1 in Table 12-2 must be augmented before use. Soil type 4, 4A, 
and 5 in Table 12-2 are not suitable for subsurface irrigation. 
3. 
Dispersed subsurface irrigation system requirements (Applicable to Graywater Use 
Categories: B1 and B2): 
The following minimum design criteria are required for graywater treatment works using 
dispersed irrigation systems for subsurface irrigation: 
a. 
Include a cartridge filter, which must meet the following requirements: 
i. 
A minimum of 60 mesh; 
ii. 
Located between the storage tank and the irrigation system; 
iii. 
If a pump is being used to pressurize the graywater distribution system, 
the filter must be located after the pump. 
b. 
The following irrigation area equation protocols must be used to determine the 
appropriate size of the irrigation area for single family and non-single family, 
dispersed subsurface irrigation systems (Applicable to Graywater Use Categories 
B1 and B2). Refer to Table 12-3: Soil Type and Maximum Absorption Capacity in 
gallons per square foot of irrigation area per day.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
24 
Table 12-3: Soil Type and Maximum Absorption Capacity 
 
2024 Uniform Plumbing Code 
Soil Type 
2024 Uniform Plumbing Code Maximum 
absorption capacity in gallons per 
square foot of irrigation area per day 
Course sand or gravel 
5.0 
Fine Sand 
4.0 
Sandy loam 
2.5 
Sandy clay 
1.7 
Clay with considerable sand or 
gravel 
1.1 
Clay with small amounts of 
sand or gravel 
0.8 
i. 
LA = gpd/MAC in gal/ft2 
Where: 
Gpd =  gallons per day per household or non-single family combined 
(actual graywater flow is derived in 86.11(A)(1)(a) for single family, 
86.11(A)(1)(b) for non-single family) 
MAC = maximum absorption capacity in gallons per square foot 
C. 
Design criteria for indoor toilet and urinal flushing graywater treatment works (Graywater Use 
Categories C1 and C2) 
1. 
Category C1: single family, indoor toilet and urinal flushing graywater treatment works 
The following minimum design criteria are required for graywater treatment works for 
Category C1: single family, indoor toilet and urinal flushing: 
a. 
The graywater treatment works must be certified under “Class R” of NSF/ANSI 
350 Onsite Residential and Commercial Water Reuse Treatment Systems. 
b. 
If a disinfection process is not part of NSF/ANSI 350-2011 equipment, separate 
disinfection system equipment is required. For graywater treatment works that 
use sodium hypochlorite (bleach), the graywater treatment works must be 
capable of providing a free chlorine residual of 0.2 to 4.0 mg/L in the graywater 
throughout the indoor graywater plumbing system. 
c. 
The graywater treatment works must include a dye injection system that is 
capable of providing a dye concentration that is visibly distinct from potable 
water.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
25 
d. 
For Category C1 indoor toilet and urinal flushing graywater treatment works that 
are also capable of using graywater for subsurface irrigation, the system may be 
designed to allow graywater to be diverted to the subsurface irrigation graywater 
treatment works prior to the disinfection and dye process, however after the point 
of diversion the subsurface irrigation portion of the system must meet the 
requirements in section 86.12(B). 
2. 
Category C2: non-single family, indoor toilet and urinal flushing graywater treatment 
works 
The following minimum design criteria are required for Category C2: non-single family, 
indoor toilet and urinal flushing: 
a. 
The graywater treatment works must be certified under “Class R” or “Class C” of 
NSF/ANSI 350 Onsite Residential and Commercial Water Reuse Treatment 
Systems. Required classification shall be dictated by the size of the graywater 
treatment works and if the graywater sources are residential or commercial as 
defined by NSF/ANSI 350. 
b. 
Separate disinfection system equipment is required if a disinfection process is 
not part of NSF/ANSI 350-2011 equipment. A graywater treatment works must be 
capable of providing a free chlorine residual of 0.2 to 4.0 mg/L in the graywater 
throughout the indoor graywater plumbing system. 
c. 
The graywater treatment works must include a dye injection system that is 
capable of providing a dye concentration that is visibly distinct from potable 
water. 
d. 
For Category C2 indoor toilet and urinal flushing graywater treatment works that 
are also capable of using graywater for subsurface irrigation, the system may be 
designed to allow graywater to be diverted to the subsurface irrigation graywater 
treatment works prior to the disinfection and dye process, however after the point 
of diversion the subsurface irrigation portion of the system must meet the 
requirements in section 86.12(B). 
e. 
For graywater treatment works that have a capacity to receive greater than 2,000 
gallons per day, the design must be prepared under the supervision of and 
submitted with the seal and signature of a professional engineer licensed to 
practice engineering in the State of Colorado in accordance with the 
requirements of the Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies (DORA) – 
Division of Professions and Occupations. 
D. 
Design criteria for rural fire protection graywater treatment works (Graywater Use Categories D1 
and D2) 
1. 
Category D1: single family, rural fire protection graywater treatment works 
The following minimum design criteria are required for graywater treatment works for 
Categories D1: single family, rural fire protection: 
a. 
The graywater treatment works must be authorized by the local fire protection 
district and meet minimum treatment requirements of the local fire protection 
district in addition to the design criteria included herein.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
26 
b. 
The graywater treatment works must be certified under “Class R” NSF/ANSI 350 
Onsite Residential and Commercial Water Reuse Treatment Systems. 
c. 
If a disinfection process is not part of NSF/ANSI 350-2011 equipment, separate 
disinfection system equipment is required. For graywater treatment works that 
use sodium hypochlorite (bleach), the graywater treatment works must be 
capable of providing a free chlorine residual of 0.2 to 4.0 mg/L prior to graywater 
entering the storage cistern. 
d. 
For Category D1 graywater treatment works that are also capable of using 
graywater for subsurface irrigation or indoor fixture flushing, the system may be 
designed to allow graywater to be diverted to the subsurface irrigation graywater 
treatment works prior to the dye process, however after the point of diversion the 
subsurface irrigation portion of the system must meet the requirements in section 
86.12(B). 
2. 
Category D2: non-single family, rural fire protection graywater treatment works 
The following minimum design criteria are required for graywater treatment works for 
Categories D2: non-single family, rural fire protection: 
a. 
The graywater treatment works must be authorized by the local fire 
district/authority and meet minimum treatment requirements of the local fire 
district/authority in addition to the design criteria included herein. 
b. 
The graywater treatment works must be certified under “Class R” or “Class C” of 
NSF/ANSI 350 Onsite Residential and Commercial Water Reuse Treatment 
Systems. Required classification shall be dictated by the size of the graywater 
treatment works and if the graywater sources are residential or commercial as 
defined by NSF/ANSI 350. 
c. 
If a disinfection process is not part of NSF/ANSI 350-2011 equipment, separate 
disinfection system equipment is required. For graywater treatment works that 
use sodium hypochlorite (bleach), the graywater treatment works must be 
capable of providing a free chlorine residual of 0.2 to 4.0 mg/L prior to graywater 
entering the storage cistern. 
d. 
For Category D2, rural fire protection graywater treatment works that are also 
capable of using graywater for subsurface irrigation or indoor fixture flushing, the 
system may be designed to allow graywater to be diverted to the subsurface 
irrigation graywater treatment works prior to the dye process, however after the 
point of diversion the subsurface irrigation portion of the system must meet the 
requirements in section 86.12(B). 
e. 
For graywater treatment works that have a capacity to receive greater than 2,000 
gallons per day, the design must be prepared under the supervision of and 
submitted with the seal and signature of a professional engineer licensed to 
practice engineering in the State of Colorado in accordance with the 
requirements of the Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies (DORA) – 
Division of Professions and Occupations.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
27 
86.13 
Signage Requirements for Graywater Treatment Works 
A. 
Signage requirements for non-single family graywater treatment works (Applicable to Graywater 
Use Categories B2, C2, and D2) 
1. 
All required notifications shall include posting of signs of sufficient size to be clearly read 
with the language below in the dominant language(s) expected to be spoken at the site. 
B. 
All non-single family graywater treatment works (Graywater Use Categories: B2, C2, and D2 
All non-single family graywater treatment works must comply with the following signage 
requirements. 
1. 
A permanent warning sign must be visible at all fixtures from which graywater is 
collected. The signs must state that, “WATER FROM THIS FIXTURE IS REUSED. 
CHEMICALS, EXCRETA, PETROLEUM OILS AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS MUST 
NOT BE DISPOSED DOWN THE DRAIN”; 
2. 
Each room that contains graywater treatment works components must have a sign that 
says “CAUTION GRAYWATER TREATMENT WORKS, DO NOT DRINK, DO NOT 
CONNECT TO THE POTABLE DRINKING WATER SYSTEM. NOTICE: CONTACT 
BUILDING MANAGEMENT BEFORE PERFORMING ANY WORK ON THIS WATER 
SYSTEM.” 
C. 
Non-single family, subsurface irrigation graywater treatment works (Graywater Use Category B2) 
1. 
Non-single family, subsurface irrigation graywater treatment works (Category B2, if 
applicable) must comply with the following signage requirement: 
a. 
Each irrigation area must have a sign that says “CAUTION GRAYWATER 
BEING USED FOR IRRIGATION. DO NOT DRINK, DO NOT CONNECT TO 
THE POTABLE DRINKING WATER SYSTEM.” 
D. 
Non-single family, indoor toilet or urinal flushing, non-single family graywater treatment  
works 
(Graywater Use Category C2) 
1. 
Non-single family, indoor toilet and urinal flushing graywater treatment works (Category 
C2) must comply with the following signage requirement: 
a. 
Each toilet and urinal must have a sign that says: “TO CONSERVE WATER, 
THIS BUILDING USES TREATED NON-POTABLE GRAYWATER TO FLUSH 
TOILETS AND URINALS.” 
E. 
Single family and non-single family, rural fire protection graywater treatment works (Graywater 
Use Categories: D1 and D2) 
1. 
Single family and non-single family, rural fire protection graywater treatment works 
(Category D1 and D2, if applicable) must comply with the following signage requirement: 
a. 
Each storage cistern must have a sign that says “CAUTION GRAYWATER 
BEING USED FOR RURAL FIRE PROTECTION SUPPLY ONLY. DO NOT 
DRINK, DO NOT CONNECT TO THE POTABLE DRINKING WATER SYSTEM.”

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
28 
86.14 
Graywater Use Requirements - Control Measures 
A. 
Control measures are operational requirements representing best management practices that 
graywater treatment works must follow when operating a graywater treatment works. 
B. 
Control measures that apply to all graywater uses 
All graywater treatment works must be operated in accordance with the following control 
measures: 
1. 
Graywater must be collected in a manner that minimizes the presence or introduction of: 
a. 
hazardous or toxic chemicals in the graywater to the greatest extent possible; 
b. 
human excreta in the graywater to the greatest extent possible; 
c.  
household wastes; 
d. 
animal or vegetable matter, and 
e. 
for Laundry to Landscape systems (Graywater Use Category A1), this includes 
control over the type of clothing in the washing machine (e.g. no reusable 
diapers; not using graywater when someone in the household is sick). 
2. 
Use of graywater is limited to the confines of the facility that generates the graywater. 
3. 
The graywater treatment works must be operated and maintained in accordance with the 
O&M manual, including all manufacturer recommended maintenance activities. The O&M 
manual must remain with the graywater treatment works throughout the system’s life and 
be updated based on each modification and approval made to the system. The O&M 
manual must be transferred, upon change of ownership or occupancy, to the new owner 
or tenant. 
a. 
For Category C2 graywater treatment works that have a capacity to receive 
greater than 2,000 gallons per day (gpd), operational and maintenance records 
must be maintained for a minimum of the past five (5) years. 
4. 
The owner or operator of a graywater treatment works must minimize exposure of 
graywater to humans, domestic pets, and other animals. 
5. 
Graywater use and graywater treatment works must not create a public nuisance. 
6. 
Graywater must not be stored for more than 24 hours unless the graywater has been 
treated by a graywater treatment works that meets the design requirements of section 
86.12. All graywater must be stored inside a tank(s) that meets the design requirements 
of section 86.12(A)(5). 
7. 
Temporary or semi-temporary connections from the potable water system or public water 
system to the graywater treatment works are prohibited. Permanent connections from the 
potable water system or public water system to the graywater treatment works must meet 
the design requirements of 86.12(A)(6).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
29 
C. 
Control measures that apply to subsurface irrigation graywater use, including mulch basins 
(Graywater Use Categories: A1, B1, and B2) 
Subsurface irrigation graywater treatment works must be operated in accordance with the 
following additional control measures: 
1. 
Edible crop irrigation is prohibited for non-single family subsurface irrigation (Graywater 
Use Category: B2). 
2. 
Edible crops irrigated with graywater treatment works must be washed with potable water 
prior to consumption. 
3. 
Edible crops irrigated with graywater treatment works must be for personal consumption 
only and not for sale. 
4. 
Single family units that allow for short term rentals (e.g. Airbnb, VRBO, etc.) are 
prohibited from using graywater for edible crop irrigation and Laundry to Landscape 
graywater treatment works. 
5. 
Irrigation of sprouts, leafy greens and root crops is prohibited. 
6. 
Irrigation is prohibited when the ground is frozen, plants are dormant, during rainfall 
events, or the ground is saturated. 
7. 
Irrigation scheduling must be adjusted so that application rates are closely matched with 
soil and weather conditions. 
8. 
Graywater must be applied in a manner that does not result in ponding, runoff, or 
unauthorized discharge to state waters. For dispersed subsurface irrigation systems, the 
graywater must be applied at an agronomic rate. For mulch basins systems, the 
graywater must not be applied in excess of the soil adsorption rate. 
9. 
For mulch basin systems, mulch must be replenished and undergo periodic maintenance 
as needed to reshape or remove material to maintain surge capacity and to prevent 
ponding and runoff. 
D. 
Control measures that apply to indoor toilet and urinal flushing graywater use (Graywater Use 
Categories: C1 and C2) 
Indoor toilet and urinal flushing graywater treatment works (Categories C1 and C2) must be 
operated in accordance with the following additional control measures. 
1. 
Graywater for toilet and urinal flushing use must be disinfected. 
a. 
Graywater treatment works that utilize chlorine for disinfection must have a 
minimum of 0.2 mg/L and a maximum of 4.0 mg/L of free chlorine residual 
throughout the indoor graywater plumbing system, including fixtures. 
b. 
Single family graywater treatment works that utilize non-chemical methods, such 
as UV, for disinfection must have a chlorine puck present in each toilet or urinal 
tank. 
2. 
Graywater for toilet and urinal flushing must be dyed with either blue or green food grade 
vegetable dye and be visibly distinct from potable water.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
30 
E. 
Control measures that apply to rural fire protection graywater use (Graywater Use Categories: D1 
and D2) 
Rural fire protection graywater treatment works (Categories D1 and D2) must be operated in 
accordance with the following additional control measures. 
1. 
Graywater for rural fire protection use must be stored in a watertight storage cistern 
consistent with 86.10(F)(3) for single family graywater treatment works and 86.10(G)(3) 
for non-single family graywater treatment works. 
2. 
Graywater for rural fire protection use must be disinfected prior to graywater entering the 
storage cistern. 
a. 
Graywater treatment works that utilize chlorine for disinfection must have a 
minimum of 0.2 mg/L and a maximum of 4.0 mg/L of free chlorine residual 
throughout the indoor graywater plumbing system, prior to being pumped to the 
storage cistern; or 
b. 
UV disinfection prior to being pumped to the storage cistern. 
3. 
The local fire district/authority must be notified and agree to graywater use for fire 
protection prior to its adoption and use in a local city, city and county or county. 
86.15 
Operation and Maintenance Manual 
All graywater treatment works must have an O&M manual. The O&M manual must include the following 
items: 
A. 
A graywater treatment works description including: equipment list, design basis data including but 
not limited to, design volumes, design flow rates of each component and service area, system 
process description, system schematic drawing for single family Graywater Use Categories (A1, 
B1, C1 and D1), and system as-built drawing for non-single family Graywater Use Categories 
(B2, C2 and D2). 
B. 
Maintenance information for the graywater treatment works, including but not limited to: 
component maintenance schedule, instructions for component repair, replacement, or cleaning, 
replacement component source list, testing and frequency for potable containment device, and 
instructions for periodic removal of residuals. 
C. 
Operational ranges for parameters (except for Category A1: Laundry to Landscape systems), 
including but not limited to: disinfectant concentration levels, filter replacement parameters, 
pressure ranges, tank level, and valve status under normal operation. 
D. 
Step-by-step instructions for starting and shutting down the graywater treatment works, including 
but not limited to: valve operation, any electrical connections, cleaning procedures, visual 
inspection, and filter installation. 
E. 
A guide for visually evaluating the graywater treatment works and narrowing any problem scope 
based on alarm activations, effluent characteristics, system operation, and history. 
F. 
A list of graywater control measures in which the graywater treatment works must be operated 
(except for Category A1: Laundry to Landscape systems).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
31 
86.16 
Operation by Designated Responsible Person and Certified Operator 
A. 
Graywater treatment works for non-single family Graywater Use Categories require a designated 
responsible person who is knowledgeable with the duties including, as appropriate, specific 
measures used to operate treatment, monitoring, inspection, planning, reporting and 
documentation requirements. The designated responsible person must: 
1. 
Be designated by the legally responsible party, 
2. 
Conduct operations and maintenance in accordance with the graywater treatment works 
manufacturer’s recommendations and the professional engineer’s recommendations, 
3. 
Ensure compliance with the Operation and Maintenance Manual in this regulation, and 
4. 
Ensure compliance with the local agency’s ordinance or resolution, including monitoring 
and reporting requirements. 
B. 
A graywater treatment works with a design capacity greater than 2,000 gpd must be operated by 
qualified personnel who meet any applicable requirements of Regulation No. 100, the Water and 
Wastewater Facility Operators Certification Requirements. 
86.17 - 86.20 
Reserved 
86.21 
STATEMENT OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY, AND PURPOSE; APRIL 13, 
2015 RULEMAKING, FINAL ACTION MAY 11, 2015, EFFECTIVE JUNE 30, 2015 
The provisions of sections 25-8-202(1)(c) and 25-8-205(1)(g), C.R.S., provide the specific statutory 
authority for the Graywater Control Regulation adopted by the Water Quality Control Commission 
(commission). The commission has also adopted, in compliance with section 24-4-203(4), C.R.S., the 
following statement of basis, specific statutory authority, and purpose. 
BASIS AND PURPOSE 
I. 
Purpose 
The commission has determined that the adoption of the requirements set forth in Regulation #86 are 
necessary to protect public health and the environment in the state. The commission believes that the 
implementation of graywater use in Colorado will proceed more expeditiously by limiting the initial 
regulatory scope. This approach promotes development of local graywater programs through two initial 
graywater uses with specific treatment and control measure requirements. The commission expects the 
adoption of modifications to Regulation #86 over time to allow for additional graywater uses, graywater 
users, and expanded treatment options. The commission anticipates future reviews of this regulation to 
include a review for improved organization and readability, and also anticipates that the next review will 
consider whether to allow agricultural irrigation as a use, and whether to adopt variance provisions. 
It is the intent of the commission that this regulation promote the use of graywater by providing a 
comprehensive framework which, when followed, will assure responsible use of graywater compatible 
with the state's public policy to foster the health, welfare and safety of the inhabitants of the state of 
Colorado and to protect, maintain, and improve, where necessary and reasonable, the water quality in 
Colorado.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
32 
II. 
House Bill 13-1044 Background 
House Bill 13-1044 was signed into law on May 15, 2013, and authorizes the use of graywater in 
Colorado. The legislation defined “graywater” and “graywater treatment works” and established a basic 
implementation framework for graywater use within Colorado. 
Under the statute, each local city, city and county, or county are able to decide whether to allow 
graywater use within its jurisdiction via the adoption of a resolution or ordinance that meets minimum 
local, state and federal requirements, including but not limited to the Colorado Plumbing Board 
regulations, local graywater control programs, water rights requirements, and operator certification 
requirements. All graywater users must wait until all relevant regulations are effective before 
implementing graywater treatment works. 
III. 
Regulatory Goals 
Through adoption of this regulation, the commission is encouraging the use of graywater. Because 
graywater has the potential to be a human pathogen pathway, the commission is adopting measures to 
adequately protect public health. The graywater regulation is structured so that local governments will 
have flexibility to adopt ordinances, resolutions, and rules that are appropriate in each individual 
circumstance. Local graywater control programs are voluntary, and may allow one or both of the 
authorized graywater uses. The local graywater control program may be more stringent but must meet the 
minimum requirements of Regulation #86. Since neither the local implementing agencies nor the state 
agencies were allocated funds for graywater regulation, ordinance, code, resolution, and other supporting 
graywater control legal framework, the regulation aims to be cognizant of resource limitations linked to 
local implementation. At this time, the commission is authorizing two graywater uses – indoor toilet 
flushing and outdoor subsurface irrigation. The commission anticipates that the allowed graywater uses 
may be expanded in the future after Colorado gains some experience and further scientifically based 
research can define the risks and benefits. 
IV. 
Applicability 
The statute states that, “graywater may only be used in areas where the local city, city and county, or 
county has adopted an ordinance or resolution approving the use of graywater”, and ordinances and 
resolutions must be “in compliance” with the commission’s regulation and other federal, state, and local. 
§§ 25-8-205(1)(g)(II), 31-11-107(1) and 31-15-601(1)(m), C.R.S. 
The Commission declined to grandfather preexisting graywater systems. All graywater systems in 
Colorado must meet the requirements of this regulation. 
There are some on-site waste water treatment systems (“OWTS”) that, in addition to disposal, use some 
of the water generated from these systems for subsurface irrigation. The purpose of these systems is 
sewage disposal. These systems were approved prior to May 15, 2013, pursuant to Regulation #43: On-
Site Wastewater Treatment System Regulation (“OWTS”) (5 CCR 1002-43.4(J) or Individual Sewage 
Disposal System Guidelines (“ISDS”) (5 CCR 1003-6.IV.J) which allows a local public health agency to 
approve “experimental” OWTS or ISDS systems. The record indicated there are a small number of these 
systems, less than 10. The Commission adopted section 86.6(A)(2) to address these systems. These 
systems will continue to operate under Regulation No. 43 and will be deemed in compliance with this 
regulation unless and until modifications are made, at which time the system will need to evaluate its 
system and to the extent applicable must come into compliance with requirements of this regulation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
33 
A local city, city and county or county that adopts a graywater ordinance or resolution must include the 
ability to compel graywater users to discontinue the practice in the event the program is discontinued. 
Where a local jurisdiction adopts a local graywater program, and later decides to discontinue the local 
graywater control program, the local government may either fully discontinue the program or adopt a 
limited graywater control program to allow existing graywater systems to continue. The “limited graywater 
control program” option means that the previously adopted local control program (including all Regulation 
#86 requirements) can be limited to the existing graywater treatment works and that no additional 
applications for graywater systems will be accepted. 
V. 
Enforcement and Division Oversight 
The statute conveys exclusive enforcement authority regarding compliance with the local ordinance or 
resolution to the local jurisdiction. The commission does not intend to directly enforce on individual users 
or graywater treatment works that are located within a local graywater control program. In cases where 
there is no local graywater control program in place, graywater use within the local jurisdiction will not be 
authorized and the user (not the local agency) may face enforcement action from the Water Quality 
Control Division (division). 
A local city, city and county, or county that chooses to adopt a local graywater control program must notify 
the Division within 60 days of adoption and provide a copy of the ordinance, or resolution and, if 
applicable, rule. The division may review the ordinance or resolution to ensure that the ordinance or 
resolution meets the minimum intent of Regulation #86, and may take action to compel any local 
graywater program to conform to the minimum requirements of the regulation. 
VI. 
Definitions 
The commission relied upon existing regulatory definitions where possible and adopted definitions for 
several terms not already defined in statute. The definitions of the terms “cross-connection” and “public 
water system” were taken from Regulation #11: Colorado Primary Drinking Water Regulations. The 
definitions of the terms “component”, “design”, “design flow”, “floodplain”, “floodway”, “local public health 
agency”, “on-site wastewater treatment system”, “percolation test”, “site evaluation”, “soil horizon”, “soil 
profile test pit”, and “soil structure” were taken or modified from Regulation #43: On-site Wastewater 
Treatment System Regulation. The definitions of the terms “agronomic rate”, “agricultural irrigation”, and 
“Division” were taken or modified from Regulation #84: Reclaimed Water Control Regulation. The 
definition for “indirect connection” was modified from the International Plumbing Code 2012 edition 
definition of an “indirect waste pipe”. The definitions of the terms “suitable soil” and “subsurface irrigation” 
were modified from Washington Administrative Code Chapter 246-274. 
The commission created definitions for “closed sewerage system”, “facility”, “legally responsible party”, 
“local agency”, “local graywater control program”, “modification”, “public nuisance”, and “single family”. 
VII. 
Administration 
In section 86.9 of the regulation, the commission set mandatory minimum requirements for a resolution or 
ordinance and, if applicable, rule as adopted by a local agency. The minimum requirements are intended 
to ensure that the local graywater control program meets the statutory requirements and to ensure a 
comprehensive graywater program. Based on stakeholder feedback, the regulation allows some 
administration elements to be authorized in rule, rather than in ordinance or resolution. The minimum 
requirements are meant to be flexible recognizing that many local agencies will incorporate graywater into 
existing business processes. A local agency may adopt more stringent standards in its ordinance, 
resolution, or rule.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
34 
A local government may only authorize graywater use in accordance with federal, state, and local 
requirements. The city, city and county, or county is ultimately responsible for legal compliance with its 
own ordinance or resolution. Before a local city, city and county, or county adopts an ordinance or 
resolution to authorize the use of graywater, a board of county commissioners or a municipal governing 
body is encouraged to coordinate with other local agencies, including but not limited to, the local board of 
health, local public health agencies, any water and wastewater service providers, and basin water quality 
authorities. Coordination with other local agencies may be accomplished through memorandums of 
agreement, memorandums of understanding, agency referral mechanism, or agency agreements. The 
commission anticipates there may be circumstances where one regulatory entity’s rules and regulations 
could impact the legality of graywater use in a portion of an overall jurisdiction. For example, if a county 
allows graywater use but a portion of the county is served by a public water system that does not have 
appropriate water rights to allow graywater uses, this portion of the county must be excluded from the 
local graywater control program. 
The ordinance, resolution, or rule must clearly state the requirements for graywater use within the 
jurisdiction. The local graywater control program must outline: the allowed graywater category(ies), the 
graywater treatment design criteria, site and soil evaluation methodology (if applicable), any regulatory 
fees, any testing requirements, or specific local requirements. The regulation does not require that an 
ordinance impose fees or water quality reporting. 
A local agency’s graywater program must include a tracking mechanism for all graywater treatment 
works, a regulatory approval process, and mechanisms to ensure that on-going graywater use is done in 
compliance with the requirements of the resolution, ordinance, or rule (e.g., control measures are being 
met). The commission concludes that a local graywater program must address all graywater treatment 
works within a jurisdiction, including single family users. Current information on the installed graywater 
treatment works will be useful in the event of an outbreak investigation and during property transfers. 
Information regarding the legally responsible party associated with every graywater treatment works will 
also allow the local jurisdiction to have a contact for the decision maker of each graywater treatment 
works. 
The commission determined that the ordinance or resolution must define the local regulatory structure to 
implement the program to ensure compliance with the resolution or ordinance. The ordinance or 
resolution must clearly state which agency(ies) are involved in a local graywater control program and 
each agency’s roles and responsibilities. These requirements are meant to encourage coordination within 
and between agencies. 
Since the local jurisdiction will have enforcement authority, the local graywater control program must 
include violation notification mechanisms and escalation or enforcement actions. Possible violations of 
the ordinance or resolution that cause enforcement actions include, but are not limited to: not testing 
backflow prevention devices as required, not complying with control measures, and installation of a new 
or modification of an existing system without going through an approval process. 
The local jurisdiction will be responsible for coordinating with the Water and Wastewater Facility Operator 
Board to ensure that any Regulation #100: Water and Wastewater Facility Operator Certification 
Requirements are being satisfied. The commission encourages local jurisdictions to incorporate a 
mechanism for operator compliance assurance and a referral mechanism to the Water and Wastewater 
Facility Operator Board.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
35 
VIII. 
Graywater Categories 
The commission is authorizing two uses for graywater - subsurface irrigation and indoor toilet /urinal 
flushing. There were several factors that guided the commission in determining the graywater categories 
within the two allowed graywater uses, including the population exposed, potential health exposure, 
potential cross-connection control risk, and environmental risk. The commission established a major 
category distinction between a single family residential user and all other users (referred to in the 
regulation as non-single family). The commission anticipates that a single family user will be financially 
and personally vested in keeping the household graywater treatment works operating properly. Single 
family residents will likely be aware of the health status of the other residents in their immediate 
household. In contrast, non-single family users may not be as diligent in following graywater control 
measures, may not understand the implications to other graywater users, or may not be responsible for 
maintaining a graywater treatment works. Accordingly, four graywater use categories were created to 
address single family and non-single family graywater use for subsurface irrigation (Categories A and B) 
and indoor toilet and urinal flushing (Categories C and D). 
Within the four graywater categories, the commission is adopting daily graywater flow restrictions to 
ensure that graywater treatment works are consistent with other commission regulations. The commission 
decided to define a daily graywater flow rate rather than use the building occupancy for a variety of 
reasons. A daily flow rate is more consistent with the plumbing code, and is more consistent with other 
commission regulations. Based on a joint American Water Works Association Research Foundation 
(AwwaRF) and American Water Works Association (AWWA) study titled the Residential End Uses of 
Water, approximately 30 to 35 gallons per day (gpd) of graywater is produced per person and 
approximately 18.5 gpd/person is used for toilet flushing. The commission decided on a flow limit of 400 
gpd for single family users which is roughly the amount of graywater produced by 10 people and the 
amount that 22 people could use for indoor toilet flushing. The non-single family limit of 2,000 gpd is 
roughly the amount of graywater produced by 50 people and the amount that 108 people could use for 
indoor toilet flushing. 
Graywater is expected to contain nitrogen, phosphorus, and total dissolved solids which are regulated 
pollutants for groundwater discharges under Regulation #41 (5 CCR 1002-41). The commission 
determined that the potential risks to groundwater from graywater systems are similar to the risk posed by 
decentralized onsite wastewater treatment systems. Therefore, at the same time as adopting this control 
regulation, the commission revised Regulation #61 (section 61.14(1)(b)) to exempt graywater treatment 
works from the requirement to obtain a discharge permit. 
IX. 
Control Measures 
In addition to design requirements, the commission is adopting control measures, which are the required 
routine actions for graywater treatment works. The control measures compliment the design criteria. The 
control measures attempt to control potential graywater exposure though: limitation of graywater 
contamination at the point of production (e.g., sink), proper operation of the treatment process, and 
limitation of graywater exposure (e.g., toilet or irrigation system). For example, the design criteria for 
indoor toilet flushing use requires the installation of a dye injection system and the associated control 
measure is the daily operation of the dye injection system. The control measures are the critical barrier to 
protect public health and environment after installation of the graywater treatment works. The adopted 
control measures were developed after reviewing other states’ graywater programs and the International 
Plumbing Code requirements. Some control measures are required for all graywater uses, while other 
control measures are only required for subsurface irrigation or indoor toilet flushing.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
36 
A. 
Control measures required for all graywater uses 
• 
Graywater must be collected in a manner that minimizes the presence or introduction of 
hazardous or toxic chemicals to the greatest extent possible. Residual hazardous or toxic 
chemicals may result from activities including, but not limited to: the use of cleaning 
chemicals; the use of hazardous household products; waste from a water softener; 
cleaning car parts; washing greasy or oily rags or clothing; rinsing paint brushes; disposal 
of pesticides, herbicides, or other chemicals; disposing of waste solutions from home 
photo labs or similar hobbyist or home occupation activities; or from other home 
maintenance activities. 
• 
Graywater must be collected in a manner that minimizes the presence or introduction of 
human excreta to the greatest extent possible. Human excreta may result from activities 
such as, but not limited to: washing diapers, washing soiled garments, and washing 
infectious garments. 
• 
Graywater must be collected in a manner that minimizes the presence or introduction of 
household wastes. Residual household wastes may result from activities including, but 
not limited to: the use of cleaning chemicals; pharmaceuticals, or from home 
maintenance activities. 
• 
Graywater must be collected in a manner that minimizes the presence or introduction of 
animal or vegetable matter. Animal or vegetable matter may result from activities such as 
but not limited to: cooking, cleaning, and washing pets 
• 
Use of graywater is limited to the confines of the facility that generates the graywater. 
This control measure is a statutory requirement. 
• 
The graywater treatment works must be operated and maintained in accordance with the 
O&M manual, including all manufacturer recommended maintenance activities. On the 
surface this control measure is similar to the administration section which requires each 
graywater treatment works to have an O&M manual. However, this control measure 
requires that the O&M manual be actively followed and be used to guide proper operation 
and maintenance of a graywater treatment works. The commission included a five (5) 
year minimum O&M recordkeeping requirement for Category D graywater treatment 
works that have a capacity to receive equal to or greater than 2,000 gallons per day since 
maintenance of these systems will be essential to protect public health. In the event of an 
outbreak, having records will allow public health officials to have a baseline of operational 
information to ensure that the graywater treatment works was properly operated. 
• 
The owner or operator of a graywater treatment works must minimize exposure of 
graywater to humans and domestic pets. Research indicates that graywater is to be 
expected to contain human pathogens. Therefore, the commission considers 
minimization of exposure to humans and pets as a common sense measure to limit 
possible pathogen pathways. The commission understands that some exposures will be 
necessary for graywater treatment works maintenance, cleaning, aerosolization when 
flushing of urinals and toilets, and irrigation system maintence. Users should be aware 
that human pathogens are likely present, and should therefore limit their exposure as 
much as possible and take protective measures. 
• 
Graywater use and graywater treatment works must not create a public nuisance. 
Graywater use and graywater treatment works must not create public nuisances such as 
odors and disease vectors (e.g., mosquitoes) habitat.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
37 
• 
Graywater must not be stored for more than 24 hours unless the graywater has been 
treated by a graywater treatment works that meets the design requirements of section 
86.12. All graywater must be stored inside a tank(s) that meets the design requirements 
of section 86.12. Graywater stored for an extended time period will create an 
environment that encourages microorganism growth. Extended storage of untreated 
graywater will result in anaerobic (a.k.a. no oxygen) conditions and unpleasant odors. 
Colorado water rights laws will likely impact storage of treated graywater for an extended 
time period. In addition, this requirement is in conformance with the 2015 International 
Plumbing Code. 
• 
Temporary or semi-temporary connections from the potable water system or public water 
system to the graywater treatment works are prohibited. Permanent connections from the 
potable water system or public water system must be controlled with an appropriate 
backflow prevention assembly or backflow prevention method. Temporary potable water 
connections to graywater treatment works are not allowed. An example of a temporary 
connection is a hose submerged in a graywater storage tank to provide irrigation water 
during vacation. The prohibition was put in place since temporary connections will not 
undergo design approval or have an appropriate backflow prevention assembly or 
backflow prevention method. While temporary connections are prohibited, graywater 
treatment works may have a permanent connection from a potable water system or 
public water system. Permanent connections from the potable water system or public 
water system must be controlled with an appropriate backflow prevention assembly or 
backflow prevention method as required in section 86.12. 
B. 
Additional control measures required for subsurface irrigation use 
• 
Agricultural irrigation with graywater is prohibited. In order to be protective of public 
health, and because insufficient information was presented at this hearing to fully 
evaluate the risk to public health, graywater may not be used for agricultural irrigation. 
The definition of agricultural irrigation includes household gardens, fruit trees, and other 
flora intended for human consumption. This is especially critical for local jurisdictions that 
allow household produced food products to be sold at farmers markets. The commission 
considers “human consumption” to mean any food or beverage consumed by humans, 
regardless of the processing method (e.g., raw, fermented, baked, canned). 
• 
Irrigation is prohibited when the ground is frozen, plants are dormant, during rainfall 
events, or the ground is saturated. The commission intends to ensure that graywater use 
does not result in ponding, runoff, or unauthorized discharge to state waters. Therefore, 
graywater irrigation under these conditions is not allowed. 
• 
Irrigation scheduling must be adjusted so that application rates are closely matched with 
soil and weather conditions. The amount of water needed for irrigation is dependent on a 
variety of local conditions such as the flora being irrigated, weather condition, and local 
soils. The user needs to be mindful that the required amount of graywater and nutrients 
will change over time and therefore the graywater application rate must also be adjusted. 
• 
Graywater must be applied at an agronomic rate which does not result in ponding, runoff, 
or unauthorized discharge to state waters. The definition of agronomic rate is generally 
consistent with the definition from Regulation #84 (which addresses centralized reclaimed 
water operations). While this regulation does not require a water quality test, such testing 
is encouraged. Graywater use must not result in ponding, runoff, or unauthorized 
discharge to state waters.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
38 
• 
For mulch basin systems, mulch must be replenished as required due to decomposition 
of organic manner. Mulch basins must undergo periodic maintenance, reshaping or 
removal of material to maintain surge capacity and to prevent ponding and runoff. 
Microbial activity within the mulch basins will result in decomposition of organic material. 
To maintain the required storage volume and soil permeability, the mulch beds must 
undergo routine maintenance. This requirement was based on the 2013 California 
Plumbing Code. 
C. 
Additional control measures required for indoor toilet flushing use 
• 
Graywater for toilet and urinal flushing use must be disinfected. Graywater research 
indicates that graywater is to be expected to contain human pathogens. Therefore, the 
commission is using a multi-barrier approach, including the addition of a potent 
disinfectant to inhibit the presence of organisms, pathogens and viruses in the graywater 
distribution system. 
• 
Graywater treatment works that utilize chlorine for disinfection must have a minimum of 
0.2 mg/L and a maximum of 4.0 mg/L of free chlorine residual throughout the indoor 
plumbing system, including fixtures. The free chlorine residual requirement is generally 
consistent with Regulation #11. The commission is not implying that graywater for indoor 
toilet and urinal flushing must be treated to potable water standards, as defined by 
Regulation #11, but that a free chlorine residual range of 0.2 to 4.0 mg/L is reliably 
detectable and not high enough to adversely impact plumbing fixtures. 
• 
Single family graywater treatment works that utilize non-chemical methods, such as UV, 
for disinfection must have a chlorine puck present in each toilet tank. The commission 
wants to give some flexibility to Category C systems and not require chlorine injection for 
all systems. Since some disinfectants, such as UV, do not have a residual present in the 
distribution system, a chlorine puck will inhibit the presence of organisms, pathogens, 
and viruses within the toilet tank and bowl. 
• 
Graywater for toilet and urinal flushing must be dyed with either blue or green food grade 
vegetable dye and be visibly distinct from potable water. The commission adopted this 
requirement from the 2012 International Plumbing Code. Dye is a visual indicator that the 
water within the building is non-potable. Because single family households are not 
required to have signage for indoor toilet flushing, the dye serves as the notification 
method that a cross connection has occurred and graywater is entering the potable water 
lines of the operation. 
X. 
Treatment Works Design Criteria 
A. 
Design criteria treatment basis 
For dispersed subsurface irrigation, the commission’s intention with the design criteria is to 
protect the subsurface irrigation system from failure. The commission anticipates that without 
filtration, graywater irrigation systems would fail in a similar manner to an OWTS soil treatment 
area. Therefore, the commission is requiring filtration prior to the irrigation distribution system to 
inhibit failure of the emitter systems by particulate or bio-growth clogging. Irrigation system failure 
will result in surfacing graywater, unequal distribution, and discharge to groundwater. 
For subsurface irrigation mulch basin systems, the commission’s intention is to ensure that the 
mulch basin has an adequate volume for surge events and that the soil is capable of adsorption 
of any excess graywater that is not utilized by the flora. Mulch basin system failure will result in 
clogged mulch basins, surfacing graywater, and excessive discharge to groundwater.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
39 
For indoor toilet and urinal flushing, the commission is requiring a treatment technology that will 
be protective of public health and will consistently treat graywater without on-going water quality 
testing. Graywater research indicates that graywater is to be expected to contain human 
pathogens. Graywater is an emerging research area and peer reviewed research regarding 
graywater as a potential disease vector and treatment technology impacts on human pathogens 
are limited. Until additional graywater research studies indicate a definite public health safety 
threshold, the commission selected the ANSI/NSF 350-2011 standard for indoor toilet and urinal 
flushing. ANSI/NSF 350 is a performance based treatment testing protocol which requires a third 
party review of water quality data. The ANSI/NSF 350 standard is required in the 2015 
International Plumbing Code and is required by other western states that allow indoor toilet 
flushing with graywater. The 2013 California Plumbing Code sets ANSI/NSF 350 as the minimum 
water quality standards (unless the authority having jurisdiction has other water quality 
requirements). Oregon allows indoor use with an ANSI certified graywater standard. In addition to 
ANSI/NSF 350 treatment, the commission is requiring dye to visually differentiate graywater from 
potable water, as well as requiring a disinfectant to prevent biological growth in the graywater 
distribution system. 
B. 
Flow projections 
The commission is adopting graywater flow rates based on the 2012 Uniform Plumbing Code. 
The 2012 Uniform Plumbing Code includes daily flow estimates for water saving fixtures while the 
2015 International Plumbing Code only has traditional fixture daily flow estimates. The 
commission received comments from local agencies indicating that the allowed occupancy rates 
and therefore overall flow rate projections are not very conservative. The commission determined 
that if graywater is produced at graywater treatment works designed with a storage tank at a rate 
higher than the estimates, that any excess graywater will overflow to a combined sewer system. 
Excess graywater production will not impact the graywater treatment works flow (after the storage 
tank) for graywater use and the overall flow to the closed sewerage system from the facility will 
not be impacted. 
For mulch basin systems without a storage tank, excess graywater production may have a more 
direct impact. A mulch basin without a storage tank, which is sized for surge events at three times 
the daily production volume, provides some safety factor for additional daily flow. The local 
implementing agencies will have the flexibility to adopt more conservative flow rates. For multi-
family residential systems, this flow projection design criteria allows flexibility if site specific flow 
information is available. The residential flow values are intended for circumstances where site 
specific fixture information is unknown. 
C. 
General graywater treatment works design criteria 
The commission is adopting general design criteria for all graywater treatment works including: 
component sizing requirements, a graywater diversion valve, no bypass lines around the 
treatment works, and labeling. Treatment works components must be sized to treat the 
anticipated peak flow rate. For example: an improperly sized filter upstream of a storage tank may 
result in graywater backing up into the building’s plumbing system. The diversion valve is a critical 
component for the graywater user to allow graywater to be sent to the closed sewerage system 
during non-irrigation periods, divert graywater when cleaning the tank, divert graywater when 
hazardous chemical are being used in the building, etc. The diversion valve is intended to direct 
graywater prior to the graywater treatment works to a closed sewerage system. No bypass lines 
around the graywater treatment works prior to use is allowed. The graywater lines must also be 
clearly distinguished to guarantee that the graywater piping is not mistaken for potable water 
piping. This requirement is intended to be consistent with the anticipated Colorado Plumbing 
Code requirements but will apply to all graywater piping, including piping outside the structure.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
40 
This regulation is consistent with the requirements for onsite wastewater treatment facilities with 
respect to: the impact of a graywater system on the onsite wastewater treatment facility sizing, 
floodplain, and floodway requirements. The onsite wastewater treatment system must be sized 
for the potentially full wastewater treatment flow from the facility in the event that future property 
owners elect to discontinue use of the graywater treatment works. 
The commission determined that a storage tank is required for all graywater treatment works, 
except for properly sized mulch basin systems. Tanks equalize flow surges and minimize water 
quality variations through the day. Tanks also allow graywater application to be controlled to 
ensure agronomic rate control. If excess graywater is produced (over the agronomic rate), the 
excess graywater will be sent to the closed sewerage system via the overflow line rather than 
being disposed of in the subsurface irrigation system. Tanks can be used as a collection reservoir 
for a pressurized graywater distribution system which will allow for equal distribution of graywater 
throughout graywater piping. For indoor tanks, the Colorado Plumbing code may be more 
restrictive than the requirements in this regulation, but the design criteria adopted here set 
minimum standards for water quality needs. The required tank appurtenances are important 
design features necessary for maintaining the required control measures. Design criteria were 
included for tank materials, access openings, vents, overflow lines, drains, tank foundation, and 
signage. A minimum tank volume of 50 gallons was adopted based on the 2012 Uniform 
Plumbing Code. Outdoor tanks must be protected from direct sunlight to limit biological growth 
prior to use of stored water. 
Some graywater treatment works will produce backwash waste streams. The backwash waste 
stream must be properly contained or disposed. An example of a graywater treatment works with 
a produced wastewater stream would be a filter with a backwash process. Any wastewater from 
the treatment process must be sent to an appropriate disposal location such as a closed 
sewerage system or an approved Underground Injection Control well. 
Graywater treatment works must be located within the confines of the legal property boundary 
and not within an easement. 
D. 
Additional design criteria for Categories A and B 
In order to ensure the integrity of the irrigation system, the commission is requiring a filter. The 
filter must be located between the treatment system and the irrigation distribution system to inhibit 
failure of the soil or emitter systems by particulate clogging. A 60 mesh filter was determined to 
be the appropriate minimum size for protection of the irrigation system. However, the irrigation 
system manufacturer may recommend smaller filter sizes based on the selected graywater 
irrigation system components. Local governments can be more stringent and require designers to 
follow the manufacturer’s recommendations. Prefiltration is not required but is recommended to 
reduce maintenance on the 60 mesh filter. The filter must be located between the tank and the 
irrigation area. To prevent pump failure, the filter must be located after the pump and not on the 
suction side of the pump. 
For mulch basin systems, the commission’s aim was to not require a filter and to allow for simple 
graywater systems. It is anticipated that the mulch and underlying soil will act similar to a trickling 
filter and will provide some treatment of graywater that is not used by the flora.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
41 
E. 
Back up potable water system requirements for Categories A, B, C, and D 
The commission is adopting different cross-connection control requirements for a graywater 
system served by a public water system (as defined in Regulation #11) than for graywater 
systems served by a non-public water system. The commission believes that installation of 
control devices is critical at all graywater treatment works with potable water connections. 
However, the commission does not want to require annual device testing for non-public water 
system users and customers (e.g., a single family house on an individual private well) that would 
not be required under the commission’s existing regulations. The cross connection control 
requirements for public water systems are well defined in Regulation #11 and therefore this 
regulation does not repeat the associated requirements. For urinal and toilet flushing users, 
potable water supply is required for sanitary purposes since toilets and urinals must have a water 
supply at all times. For subsurface irrigation users, a potable water supply is optional. 
F. 
Signage requirements for non-single family users 
The regulation requires signage for public notification. The signage requirement is for non-single 
family users since the building occupants and visitors are less likely to be aware that a graywater 
treatment works is in use than at a single family residence. The required signage is for general 
notification and is a component of the required control measures. For non-single family users, 
signs are required at three locations: 1) point of graywater production (e.g., sink), 2) location of 
the graywater treatment works, and 3) point of graywater use (e.g., irrigation area, toilet). At the 
point of production, the purpose of the sign is to notify building occupants or visitors that the water 
is being reused and to ensure that the graywater is not being inadvertently contaminated. At the 
location of the graywater treatment works, the purpose of the sign is to notify occupants and 
building maintenance personnel in order to prevent accidental exposure to graywater. At the point 
of use, the purpose of the sign is to notify the persons using the irrigation area, toilet, or urinal. 
G. 
ANSI/NSF 350 standard certified treatment for Category C and D systems 
NSF/ANSI 350-2011 is a performance based water quality standard developed by the NSF Joint 
Committee on Wastewater Technology in 2011 for residential and commercial graywater 
treatment for indoor toilet and urinal flushing. The standard sets the minimum design, material, 
design and construction, and performance requirements for on-site residential and commercial 
graywater treatment systems. Technologies are tested under normal operating conditions and 
stress conditions and water quality results are verified by a third party certification agency. The 
standard does not specify the treatment technologies used to meet the water quality standard 
which gives flexibility of various treatment technologies to get certified. The commission finds that 
the ANSI/NSF standard meets an acceptable technology review protocol that would be certified 
by a third party agency to simplify the technology review process for the local jurisdictions. In 
addition, ANSI/NSF is a nationally recognized standard that is intended to be protective of public 
health and would consistently treat graywater without the need for on-going water quality testing. 
As the ANSI/NSF certification standard is relatively recent only a few manufacturers have gone 
through the certification process. The commission anticipates that as indoor graywater use 
becomes more accepted, more manufacturers will certify their products. Additionally, the 
ANSI/NSF 350 standard has on-site performance testing and evaluation protocol for commercial 
systems over 1,500 gallons per day. The commission anticipates some graywater users will use a 
third party testing agency to certify their graywater treatment works to the NSF/ANSI 350 
standard.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
42 
H. 
Disinfection requirements for Category C and D systems 
Graywater research indicates that graywater is to be expected to contain human pathogens; 
therefore, the commission considers the use of a potent disinfectant an essential part of a multi-
barrier approach to protect public health. The use of a disinfectant is required if disinfection is not 
already part of the ANSI/NSF equipment. The disinfectant is to inhibit the growth of 
microorganisms, pathogens and viruses in the indoor graywater plumbing system. For non-single 
family systems, the commission is requiring a free chlorine residual of 0.2 mg/L to 4 mg/L to 
prevent regrowth of microorganism in the graywater distribution system. Non-single family users 
are expected to have a large potentially impacted population and a more complicated distribution 
system design than single family systems. To reduce the burden on single family users, systems 
that use non-chemical methods for disinfection are required to use a chlorine puck in the toilet or 
urinal. 
To maintain a multi-barrier approach, the commission is requiring that the disinfection process be 
capable of producing free chlorine rather than total chlorine. The disinfection process for non-
single family users must be capable of injecting enough chlorine to react with all reducing agents, 
ammonium, organics, etc present in the graywater (aka past the breakpoint chlorination point) 
and that free chlorine must be present. EPA documents indicate that chloramines (which are 
formed prior to breakpoint chlorination) are approximately 100 times less effective than free 
chlorine at inactivating pathogens such as Giardia lamblia or viruses. Therefore, the commission 
believes that free chlorine is a readily available and safe, potent disinfectant. 
I. 
Professional Engineers for Category D systems 
The professional engineer requirement for graywater treatment works with a design capacity 
greater than 2,000 gallons per day was determined to be necessary to ensure the protection of 
public health and the environment. The local jurisdiction may elect to make designer 
requirements more stringent in their graywater control program. 
XI. 
Irrigation System Design Criteria 
A. 
General design criteria basis 
The irrigation design requirements in this regulation are modeled after the State of Washington’s 
graywater regulation (Chapter 246-274 WAC). Washington requires that graywater be applied 
directly to the plant root zone. The requirement that irrigation systems be located four (4) inches 
below ground rather than two (2) inches results in less potential graywater surfacing or accidental 
breakage incidents. The commission wants to be in general conformance with the required set 
back distance requirements. 
The requirements adopted for single family dispersed subsurface irrigation systems are intended 
to prevent undersizing of the subsurface irrigation area while making the application process 
straightforward. For non-single family dispersed subsurface irrigation systems and mulch basin 
systems, the commission’s intent was to adequately size the irrigation system using the best 
information available including site specific soil testing.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
43 
B. 
Irrigation system requirements for Single Family irrigation system 
The intention with the dispersed subsurface irrigation systems area sizing was to have a 
reasonable and simple calculation for single family systems. The commission believes this 
equation is the simplest and most economical method to estimate the landscape area for small 
graywater systems. The equation is used by other state agencies (e.g., Idaho, Washington) and 
designers (e.g., Oasis Design). Furthermore, this method does not require soils testing at each 
single family residential site. Local jurisdictions that are not comfortable without soils testing 
results may elect to require the mulch bed or Category B requirements for the single family 
dispersed subsurface irrigation systems. 
C. 
Irrigation system requirements for Mulch Basin and Non-Single Family dispersed subsurface 
irrigation systems 
The commission modeled the Category B and mulch basin irrigation design requirements on the 
State of Washington’s graywater regulation (Chapter 246-274 WAC). The Washington soil type 
table was merged with the soil type descriptions in Regulation #43 for ease of local 
implementation and for consistency between commission regulations. The soil depths are not the 
same as the Regulation #43 requirements since Regulation #43 is intended for onsite wastewater 
treatment while this regulation is intended for graywater use by flora. Although intended for use 
by flora, the mulch basin system design criteria recognize that disposal to groundwater may 
result. This recognition is the basis for requiring a site and soil evaluation for all mulch basin 
systems, even single family systems. The site and soil evaluation requirement aims to provide 
site specific conditions design parameters to allow proper design for category B and mulch basin 
systems. 
Mulch basin design requirements in other western states were researched, and detailed mulch 
basin design parameters were not found. Therefore the commission’s goal for the mulch basin 
design criteria was to have sufficient volume to adsorb graywater volume surges for graywater 
treatment works. For graywater treatment works that do not have a storage tank the volume 
requirements are to capture a surge volume three (3) times the daily flow. For graywater 
treatment works with a storage tank the volume requirement has a safety factor of 1.5 times the 
daily flow. The purposes of the other mulch basin design criteria are for proper operation and to 
minimize potential human exposure. 
86.22 
STATEMENT OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY, AND PURPOSE; NOVEMBER 
9, 2015 RULEMAKING, EFFECTIVE DECEMBER 30, 2015 
The provisions of sections 25-8-202(1)(c) and 25-8-205(1)(g), C.R.S., provide the specific statutory 
authority for the Graywater Control Regulation adopted by the Water Quality Control Commission 
(commission). The commission has also adopted, in compliance with section 24-4-203(4), C.R.S., the 
following statement of basis, specific statutory authority, and purpose. 
BASIS AND PURPOSE 
The commission stated in the statement of basis and purpose language in section 86.21 that, “[t]he 
commission anticipates future reviews of this regulation to include a review for improved organization and 
readability.” In the November 9, 2015 rulemaking the Commission reorganized Regulation #86 and, in 
some cases, clarified the language. These changes to Regulation #86 are not substantive and are not 
intended to create any new or different requirements for graywater systems. The revisions are intended to 
make Regulation #86 easier to understand, comply with, and implement. 
In an effort to provide clarity the following revisions were made:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
44 
• 
Section 86.9 - clarified which of the local graywater program requirements must be adopted under 
an ordinance or resolution and which requirements may be adopted under rule, 
• 
Section 86.11 - created a new independent section for graywater treatment works – flow 
projections in section 
• 
Section 86.12 - reorganized the graywater treatment works design criteria in section into: 
subsurface irrigation graywater treatment works design criteria and indoor and urinal flushing 
graywater treatment works design criteria, rather than design criteria for each use category, 
• 
Section 86.13 - moved the operation and maintenance manual requirements to section 86.13, 
• 
Section 86.14 - moved the control measure requirements to section 86.14, and 
• 
Minor editorial changes for clarity throughout. 
86.23 
STATEMENT OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY, AND PURPOSE; NOVEMBER 
13, 2023 RULEMAKING, EFFECTIVE JANUARY 14, 2024 
The provisions of sections 25-8-202(1)(c) and 25-8-205(1)(g), C.R.S., provide the specific statutory 
authority for the Graywater Control Regulation adopted by the Water Quality Control Commission 
(commission). The commission has also adopted, in compliance with section 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the 
following statement of basis, specific statutory authority, and purpose. 
BASIS AND PURPOSE 
Upon adoption of Regulation No. 86 in 2015, the commission anticipated future reviews to consider 
improved organization and readability, whether to allow additional uses and treatment works of graywater 
and whether to adopt a variance process. During the triennial review hearing in 2021, the commission 
directed the division to conduct a stakeholder process to discuss these topics in addition to other 
proposed items from the division. As a result, the commission adopted several changes to this regulation 
during the rulemaking on November 13, 2023. 
I. 
Improved Clarification and Organization 
A. 
Applicability for Existing Graywater Treatment Works and Regulatory Revisions 
The commission added language in the Applicability section to clarify circumstances for 
graywater treatment works that have been approved prior to this regulatory revision ((86.6(A)(3)). 
The language states that if graywater treatment works were approved prior to revisions to 
Regulation No. 86, the treatment works remain in compliance until modifications are made, or a 
public or environmental health risk is identified. The commission deemed this a safe and 
appropriate means to avoid abrupt, burdensome costs associated with continuous upgrades or 
alterations as this regulation is updated. The commission’s intent was to allow existing systems to 
persist as long as they are safe for public health and the environment. 
B. 
Water Quality Control Commission’s Control Regulations – 86.6(A)(6) 
The commission deemed it necessary to include a requirement for local graywater control 
programs to require compliance with nutrient control regulations (5 CCR 1002-71 through 1002-
75), and for notification to be provided to the basin control authorities. Regulation No. 86 does not 
contain phosphorus treatment techniques or standards.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
45 
C. 
Local Graywater Ordinances and Resolutions 
The commission clarified the timeline for local agencies to update and ensure compliance of their 
local ordinance or resolution within 365 days from the effective date of the most recent regulation 
adopted by the commission. If the division determines that a local ordinance or resolution is out of 
compliance with Regulation No. 86, the ordinance or resolution must be revised within 180 days 
of written notice by the division to the local authority. 
D. 
New Definitions 
The definition of “Backflow Device” was deleted, and definitions for “Backflow Contamination 
Event,” “Backflow Prevention Assembly” and “Backflow Prevention Method” were added to be 
consistent with terminology used in Colorado’s Primary Drinking Water Regulation No. 11. 
Definitions of “ENERGY STAR” and “Integrated Water Factor” were added because these terms 
and data are used to calculate flow projections for laundry machines in section 86.11. A definition 
of “Laundry to Landscape” was added because the commission adopted this type of graywater 
treatment works in this regulation. In sections 86.11(A)(1)(ii)(a) and (b), the commission decided 
to switch the terminology from “traditional fixtures” and “water saving fixtures” to “Non-
WaterSense fixtures” and “WaterSense fixtures,” respectively, because the former terms do not 
have definitions in the 2012 Uniform Plumbing Code. Therefore, a definition of “WaterSense” was 
added. WaterSense is the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA’s) program for testing and 
labeling water efficient fixtures. It is also the intent that if the WaterSense program was replaced 
with another water efficiency program, the definition would still apply. 
II. 
New Graywater Treatment Works and Use Categories 
A. 
Laundry to Landscape Graywater Treatment Works 
The commission added category A1: Laundry to Landscape graywater treatment works for single 
family users to employ subsurface irrigation, including mulch basins. A definition, design criteria 
and control measures were added. The commission found that single family units that allow for 
short term rental agreements (e.g. Airbnb, VRBO, etc.) should be prohibited from using Laundry 
to Landscape systems. The graywater effluent should be consistently produced from a permanent 
source to prevent the risk of potential outbreaks. Short term renters may not be aware of the 
control measures and other requirements in place to maintain safe Laundry to Landscape 
systems, and graywater effluent from multiple persons from various regions would resemble 
multifamily effluent that poses a greater public health risk. 
B. 
Edible Crops 
The commission added an allowance of edible crop irrigation for subsurface irrigation for single 
family users (includes irrigation from Laundry to Landscape systems). Irrigation of sprouts, leafy 
greens and root crops is prohibited. The commission’s main concern was ingestion of pathogens, 
and research has shown that non-spray irrigation methods on crops that grow above ground is a 
low risk and efficient use of graywater. Additionally, a control measure was added that edible 
crops irrigated with graywater treatment works must be washed with potable water prior to 
consumption. The commission determined that edible crop irrigation should be prohibited for non-
single family users and single family units that allow for short term rentals (e.g. Airbnb, VRBO, 
etc.) because of the higher risk associated with pathogens in non-single family graywater effluent. 
As with Laundry to Landscape systems, the commission believed graywater effluent should be 
consistently produced from a permanent source to prevent the risk of potential outbreaks.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
46 
C. 
Rural Fire Protection 
The commission added rural fire protection as graywater use categories D1 and D2 to provide 
options for jurisdictions that allow fire sprinkler systems in homes of specific sizes located in 
remote areas that do not have readily available storage tanks, fire hydrants or other water 
supplies for firefighting. While there are risks associated with using graywater for firefighting, the 
commission determined that protection of life from fire is a greater priority at the time of an 
emergency. The commission required the local city, city and county, or county to obtain 
agreement from the local fire district/authority prior to adopting this use in their local ordinance or 
resolution. It was determined that the design criteria and modified control measures for toilet and 
urinal flushing be used for rural fire protection to be protective of human health. Graywater must 
be stored in an outdoor, watertight cistern with signage to notify firefighters that graywater is 
contained in the cistern. 
III. 
Adjustment to Labeling of Graywater Use Categories 
The commission adopted a new labeling series for the graywater use categories shown in the table 
below. 
 
Category 
Use 
Graywater Source(s) 
End Use 
A1 
Laundry to Landscape 
Laundry Machines 
Outdoor mulch basins (single family 
dwelling) 
B1 
Single family subsurface 
irrigation (landscapes) 
All allowed graywater sources 
Outdoor subsurface irrigation and 
mulch basins (single family dwelling) 
B2 
Non-single family 
subsurface irrigation 
(landscapes) 
All allowed graywater sources 
Outdoor subsurface irrigation and 
mulch basins (non-single family) 
C1 
Single family indoor toilet 
and urinal flushing 
All allowed graywater sources 
Indoor toilet and urinal flushing 
(single family dwelling) 
C2 
Non-single family indoor 
toilet and urinal flushing 
All allowed graywater sources 
Indoor toilet and urinal flushing ( non-
single family) 
D1 
Single family rural fire 
protection 
All allowed graywater sources 
Indoor/outdoor firefighting, storage 
tank outdoor (single family dwelling) 
D2 
Non-single family rural 
fire protection 
All allowed graywater sources 
Indoor/outdoor firefighting, storage 
tank outdoor (non-single family) 
IV. 
Updates to Flow Projections and Design Criteria 
A. 
Laundry Machine Flow Projections 
The commission decided to use the EPA’s ENERGY STAR, Integrated Water Factor (IWF) for 
ENERGY STAR rated laundry machines. ENERGY STAR is an EPA label that is certified to meet 
strict standards for energy efficiency and incorporates water savings calculations into their 
product certifications. The IWF is a measure of water efficiency that considers gallons of water 
consumed per cubic foot of capacity. The IWF’s can be found on EPA’s website, and with the 
product information for ENERGY STAR laundry machines. For laundry machines that do not have 
an ENERGY STAR label, the flow projections previously used in Regulation No. 86 will apply. 
The flow rate for traditional fixtures (laundry machines that are not ENERGY STAR rated) was 
reduced from 15 gallons per day per occupant (gpd/occupant) to 10 gpd/occupant based on more 
recent and reliable laundry machine water usage data.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-86 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
47 
B. 
New Equation for Mulch Basin Design Criteria 
The commission developed a new equation to be used to calculate landscaped area for Laundry 
to Landscape systems and mulch basins. The commission deleted the previous equation from 
Regulation No. 86 because the new equation is a simplified version that reaches the same end 
goal. Soil type and loading rate are uniform and reliable factors to consider whether there is 
sufficient graywater volume absorption for graywater subsurface irrigation. 
C. 
New Equation for Single and Non-Single Family Dispersed Subsurface Irrigation 
The commission developed a new and separate equation for sizing landscaped areas for single 
and non-single family dispersed subsurface irrigation systems (Graywater Use Categories: B1 
and B2). Table 12-2 used for Laundry to Landscape systems is appropriate for non-pressurized 
irrigation systems. Dispersed subsurface irrigation systems that are not installed in mulch basins 
are pressurized. Table 12-3 in section 86.12(B)(3)(b)(i) is specific for pressurized irrigation 
systems and will result in more accurate landscaped area calculations for these types of systems. 
Additionally, the commission changed the minimum depth of subsurface irrigation components 
from four inches to two inches (sections 86.8(45) and 86.12(B)(1)(a)). Two inches is in line with 
the recommendation in the 2024 Uniform Plumbing Code. 
V. 
Certified Operator Responsibilities 
The commission removed the requirement that a certified operator under the Water and Wastewater 
Facility Operators Certification Board be required for non-single family Graywater Treatment Works with a 
design capacity of 2,000 gpd or less. Most NSF 350 treatment works are relatively simple, and a 
designated responsible person who can operate and maintain the treatment works according to the 
conditions in 86.16(A) will be protective of public health. Non-single family graywater treatment works with 
a design capacity of greater than 2,000 gpd will continue to be required to be operated by a certified 
operator per Regulation No. 100. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 06/30/2015. 
Rules 86.7.B, 86.9.B, 86.9.C.2, 86.11-86.15, 86.22 eff. 12/30/2015. 
Entire rule eff. 01/14/2024.
