---
id: "5_CCR_1002-82"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "5 CCR 1002-82"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=11828&fileName=5%20CCR%201002-82&type=pdf"
---

#### 5_CCR_1002-82. 5 CCR 1002-82

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
Water Quality Control Commission 
REGULATION NO. 82 - 401 CERTIFICATION REGULATION 
5 CCR 1002-82 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_____________________________________________________________________ 
This regulation is promulgated pursuant to sections 25-8-202 and 25-8-205, C.R.S. 
82.1 
PURPOSE 
The purpose of this regulation is to implement section 25-8-302(1)(f), C.R.S. which became law on June 
4, 1985. The Water Quality Control Commission (Commission) construes this section as a direction by the 
Colorado Legislature to define what conditions and requirements can be required by the Water Quality 
Control Division (Division) in connection with certification of federal licenses and permits under Section 
401 of the Federal Clean Water Act, consistent with the Colorado Water Quality Control Act. This 
regulation authorizes the Division to grant certification, grant certification with conditions, deny 
certification, or expressly waive a certification of federal licenses and permits. In accordance with Section 
401 of the Federal Clean Water Act, this regulation sets forth certification conditions and requirements 
applicable to all certifications issued by the Division. The Division maintains Clean Water Policy 12, which 
is a policy document with Best Management Practices (BMPs), also referred to as Control Measures that 
will assist in the selection, installation, and maintenance of BMPs. 
By this regulation and pursuant to section 25-8-302(1)(f), C.R.S., the Division grants certification for 
regional general and nationwide permits under Section 404 of the Federal Act without additional 
conditions, and further action by the Division. 
This regulation applies to Division certification of permits issued by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 
pursuant to Section 404 of the federal Clean Water Act, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) 
licenses for hydropower projects, and other federal permits which involve a discharge into waters of the 
state, including permits issued by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) pursuant to section 402 of 
the federal Clean Water Act. 
82.2 
DEFINITIONS 
(1) 
401 Certification means the certification required by Section 401 of the federal Clean Water Act, 
33 U.S.C. Section 1341. 
(2) 
402 Permit means the permit issued by the EPA for the discharge from federal facilities as 
described in Section 402 of the federal Clean Water Act. 
(3) 
404 Permit refers to individual permits issued by the USACE for the discharge of dredged and fill 
material as described in Section 404 of the federal Clean Water Act. 
(4) 
Best Management Practices (BMPs) or Control Measures mean those structural and non-
structural methods, measures or practices implemented to prevent, reduce, or mitigate adverse 
water quality impacts resulting from construction and operation of a Project. 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
2 
(5) 
Granted Certification means a determination by the Division that the Project will comply with the 
Basic Standards and Methodologies for Surface Water, Regulation No. 31 (5 CCR 1002-31), the 
Basic Standards for Ground Water, Regulation No. 41 (5 CCR 1002-41), surface and ground 
water classifications and water quality standards, and all other applicable water quality 
requirements for the affected waters. Such certification is subject to section 25-8-104, C.R.S. 
(6) 
USACE means U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. 
(7) 
EPA means U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 
(8) 
Division means the Water Quality Control Division of the Colorado Department of Public Health 
and Environment. 
(9) 
Federal Act means the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. Sections 1251 et seq., as amended. 
(10) 
FERC means the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. 
(11) 
Project means an activity which may result in a discharge into state waters and for which a 
federal license or permit is required. 
82.3 
APPLICABILITY, SCOPE, INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE 
(A) 
No federal license or permit for which water quality certification is required under Section 401 of 
the Federal Act may be issued without the certification provided pursuant to these regulations, 
except as provided in subsection 82.3(B). 
(B) 
Regional general or nationwide permits to discharge dredged or fill material issued under section 
404 of the Federal Clean Water Act are authorized for use without additional action by the 
Division. However, applicants must adhere to the requirements in 82.6(A) as applicable. 
(C) 
Any 401 certification issued by the Division pursuant to these regulations shall apply to both the 
construction and operation of the Project for which a federal license or permit is required, and 
shall apply to the water quality impacts associated with the Project. 
(D) 
Any Tier 1 or Tier 2 certification, as described in 82.4(A)(6), issued by the Division will expire five 
(5) years after the certification is issued if construction on the project has not started. Applicants 
may submit to the Division, in writing, an extension request for a certification before the five (5) 
year expiration date, and any extensions will be granted on a case-by-case basis for good cause. 
No Tier 1 or Tier 2 certification shall expire if the project is being challenged in an active 
administrative or judicial case. Although the certification will not expire when the project is 
administratively or judicially challenged, applicants will notify the division of the challenge and 
inform the division of the appropriate project timeline once the challenge has been fully resolved 
and the applicable time period during which the administrative or judicial decision may be 
appealed has expired. Tier 3 and Tier 4 projects and FERC licensed projects are exempt from 
this section 82.3(D). 
(E) 
Throughout these regulations, requirements promulgated by agencies of the U.S., this state, or 
other states have been adopted and incorporated by reference. The references cited herein 
include only those versions that were in effect as of October 15, 2024, and not later amendments 
or editions to the incorporated material. The requirements incorporated by reference and 
promulgated by federal agencies are available at no cost in the online edition of the Code of 
Federal Regulations (CFR) hosted by the United States Government Printing Office at 
www.govinfo.gov. All other materials incorporated by reference may be examined at any state 
publications depository library, the Laboratory Services Division of the Department, or the 
Department at:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
3 
Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment 
Water Quality Control Division 
4300 Cherry Creek Drive South 
Denver, Colorado 80246-1530 
(303) 692-3500 
82.4 
APPLICATION FOR WATER QUALITY CERTIFICATION 
(A) 
USACE SECTION 404 Individual Permits. A complete application for a state water quality 
certification, as determined by the Division shall include: 
(1) 
Documentation of a written thirty (30) day pre-filing meeting request that included a 
project description, location, and the Division’s response prior to submitting a request for 
certification application, unless the meeting is waived by the Division. 
(2) 
A completed copy of the Division’s Clean Water Act (CWA) Section 401 Water Quality 
Certification Request form; 
(3) 
A signed copy, by the applicant, of the federal application for a USACE Section 404 
permit to discharge dredged or fill material; 
(4) 
Any readily available water quality-related materials that informed the development of the 
404 permit application or draft permit; 
(5) 
A map of Project location, a site plan, and a listing of the selected Control Measures 
chosen for the Project, in accordance with Clean Water Policy 12; and 
(6) 
Appropriate fees for processing the 401 certification. Tiers are determined by the Division 
at the time of pre-filing meeting request. For Tier 1 and 2 Projects, application fees are 
due at the time of the certification request to the Division. For Tier 3 and 4 Projects, the 
Division will meet with the applicants before certifications are submitted to develop a draft 
billing agreement. These fees are as follows: 
 
Tier 
Description 
Cost 
1 
Projects that incur minimal costs and 
water quality impacts 
$1,122 
2 
Projects that incur moderate costs and 
potential water quality impacts 
$3,876 
3 
Projects that involve large watershed 
area, a high degree of complexity, or a 
high potential for water quality impacts 
Calculated on an hourly rate based on 
the actual costs of Division staff and 
contractor time. 
4 
Projects that involve multiple or large 
watershed areas, a very high degree of 
complexity, very high potential for water 
quality impacts, or a high level of public 
involvement 
Calculated on an hourly rate based on 
the actual costs of Division staff and 
contractor time.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
4 
(B) 
402 PERMITS ISSUED BY EPA. For 402 permits issued by EPA, application for certification shall 
be made in a manner determined by the Division, but at a minimum, shall include a copy of the 
application for the 402 permit submitted to EPA. Applications for certifications also must include 
documentation of a written thirty (30) day pre-filing meeting request that included a project 
description, location, and the Division’s response unless the meeting is waived by the Division. 
(C)  
FERC AND ALL OTHER FEDERAL LICENSES OR PERMITS. For FERC and all other federal 
licenses or permits for which water quality certifications are required, other than Section 404 
permits as referenced in subsection 82.4(A), and Section 402 permits referenced in subsection 
82.4(B), application for 401 certifications shall be made via letter to the Division. Fees will be 
determined consistent with Section 82.4(A)(6) above. The letter of application shall contain the 
following information: 
(1) 
Documentation of a written thirty (30) day pre-filing meeting request that included a 
project description, location, and the Division’s response prior to submitting a request for 
certification application, unless the meeting is waived by the Division. 
(2) 
A completed copy of the Division Certification Request form; 
(3) 
A copy of the federal license or permit for which certification is requested; 
(4) 
A description of the Project which is expected to result in a discharge into waters of the 
state; 
(5) 
Any readily available water quality related materials that informed the development of the 
404 permit application or draft permit; and 
(6) 
A map of Project location, a site plan, and a listing of the selected Control Measures 
chosen for the Project, in accordance with Clean Water Policy 12. 
(D) 
The “reasonable period of time” establishes, in coordination with the federal permitting agency, 
the amount of time the Division requires to review the certification request and issue the 
certification. The reasonable period of time cannot exceed one (1) year after the Division receives 
a complete application for certification in accordance with the Federal Clean Water Act. The 
Division and the federal agency may agree on what constitutes a reasonable period of time. If the 
Division and federal agency do not reach an agreement on what constitutes a reasonable period 
of time, the length of the reasonable period of time will default to six (6) months after the Division 
receives a completed application for certification. 
The Division can extend the reasonable period of time, upon written notice to the federal 
permitting agency and applicant, if more time is required to comply with its public notice 
procedures or if there is a force majeure event (i.e., a natural disaster). This is provided when the 
extension in either case does not cause the reasonable period of time to exceed the statutory 
maximum of one (1) year. 
(1) 
The “reasonable period of time” does not begin until a complete 401-certification request 
application is submitted to the Division. If the Division determines that the 401-
certification request application does not include all of the information identified in 
subsections (A) through (C) above, the Division may request additional water quality 
related information from the applicant.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
5 
(2) 
The Division can extend the reasonable period of time, upon written notice to the federal 
permitting agency and applicant, if more time is required to comply with its public notice 
procedures or if there is a force majeure event (i.e., a natural disaster). No extension 
shall cause the reasonable period of time to exceed the statutory maximum of one (1) 
year. 
(E) 
The Division shall send written confirmation to the project applicant and Federal agency of the 
date that the request for certification was received and the date the application was deemed 
complete. 
82.5 
DIVISION PROCEDURES AND DETERMINATIONS 
(A) 
Division Certification Determination: 
(1) 
In determining whether to issue a 401 certification, the Division shall consider and review 
the certification application submitted, the water quality impacts of the construction and 
operation of the Project, associated National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) 
documents and the following, as appropriate: 
(a) 
Antidegradation review pursuant to the procedures in the Procedural Rules, 
Regulation No. 21. (5 CCR 1002-21), section 21.16, and the Basic Standards 
and Methodologies for Surface Water, Regulation No. 31 (5 CCR 1002-31), 
section 31.8, except that: 
For USACE Section 404 permits and FERC licenses, “significance 
determinations” for reviewable waters under section 31.8(3)(c) shall be made 
with respect to the net effect of the new or increased water quality impacts of the 
proposed Project, taking into account any environmental benefits within the 
Project area, including any water quality improvements, or mitigation measures 
proposed to be implemented within the Project area. Where possible, water 
quality improvements, or mitigation measures shall be located in the same 
watershed where the reviewable segment(s) are located; 
(b) 
The Basic Standards and Methodologies for Surface Water Regulation No. 31 (5 
CCR 1002-31), and the Basic Standards for Ground Water, Regulation No. 41 (5 
CCR 1002-41); 
(c) 
Classifications and water quality standards assigned to the waters affected by 
the Project at the date of certification for which a federal license or permit is 
required; 
(d) 
Any applicable effluent limitations or control regulations; 
(e) 
Control Measures required by this regulation and located in Clean Water Policy 
12. ; 
(f) 
The discharge provisions of the Colorado Discharge Permit System, Regulation 
No. 61 (5 CCR 1002-61); 
(g) 
Water quality-related conditions in any applicable local, state, and federal 
permits, licenses or agreements; 
(h) 
Comments and other information raised during the public comment period 
outlined in subsection 82.5(B);

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
6 
(i) 
Any Project-specific conditions proposed by the applicant and agreed to by the 
Division, including any condition beyond the authority of the Division to require. 
(2) 
Regular Certification. If, after consideration of the elements in subsection 82.5(A)(1), 
the Division concludes that the Project for which a federal license or permit is required 
will comply with all applicable requirements if constructed, operated, and maintained as 
designed, the Division shall grant certification without additional conditions for the license 
or permit. 
(3) 
Conditional Certification. If, after consideration of the elements in subsection 
82.5(A)(1), the Division concludes that the Project for which certification is required will 
comply with all applicable requirements only if one or more conditions are placed on the 
license or permit to mitigate the water quality impacts of the construction and operation of 
the Project, the Division shall grant certification with conditions . Any water quality 
improvement, or mitigation measures taken into account in making the significance 
determination referenced in section 82.5(A)(1)(a) shall be incorporated as conditions of 
the 401 certification. The Division may condition water quality certifications on adaptive 
management to address changes in the Project’s predicted impacts and/or future 
changes in applicable water quality classifications and standards. The Division, as a part 
of the conditional certification, may require water quality monitoring, based on site-
specific circumstances, to ensure that Control Measures are performing as designed and 
that the Project complies with all applicable conditions. Any conditions imposed by the 
Division shall be consistent with subsection 25-8-104, C.R.S. Any condition acceptable to 
the applicant and the Division that is beyond the authority of the Division to impose may 
also be included as a condition to the certification. Prior to issuance of such conditional 
certification, the Division may hold one or more meetings or conferences to inform the 
applicant of the need for such conditions and to discuss options for the Project including 
redesign or modification. 
(4) 
Emergency Certification of Section 404 Permits. Whenever the USACE makes a 
determination that it will process an application for a section 404 permit pursuant to its 
Procedures for Emergency Authorizations, 33 CFR 325.2(e)(4), the Division may issue a 
section 401 certification pursuant to subsections 82.5(A)(2) or 82.5(A)(3) on an 
emergency basis under subsection 82.5(B)(3), if it determines that such certification is 
necessary to preserve public health or welfare. In issuing such certification, the Division 
shall take into consideration the factors listed in section 82.5(A)(1) to the extent 
practicable, and may modify or waive, to the extent necessary, the certification 
requirements of section 82.6. 
(5) 
Denial of Certification. If, after consideration of the elements in subsection 82.5(A)(1), 
the Division concludes that the Project for which a federal license or permit is required 
will not comply with all applicable requirements even with the addition of conditions, the 
Division shall deny certification of the license or permit. Prior to denial of certification, the 
Division may hold one or more meetings or conferences to inform the applicant of the 
preliminary decision to deny certification and to allow the applicant to make necessary 
modifications to the Project leading toward certification, if possible.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
7 
(6) 
The Division shall not deny certification where the imposition of conditions or denial 
would result in material injury to water rights as prohibited under section 25-8-104, C.R.S. 
In such case, the Division shall identify in the certification and in the Water Quality 
Information Bulletin that section 25-8-104, C.R.S. has been applied. However, the 
Division and the Project proponents shall, in concert with commenters to the certification 
proceeding, including the involved federal agencies, examine and implement, where 
appropriate, means to prevent, reduce or mitigate water quality impacts identified during 
the permitting process and associated with the exercise of water rights. In such case, 
agreed upon conditions to ensure that the federally -permitted activity will comply with 
effluent limitations, water quality classifications and standards, and other applicable water 
quality control requirements that may be imposed under state law shall be included in the 
Division’s certification determination.\ 
(7) 
Expressly Waive Certification. The Division will waive its right to grant a certification if 
the Division does not act within a reasonable period of time, which will be established at 
time of certification request. 
(B) 
Public Notice 
In preparing a certification determination the Division shall prepare both a draft and final 
certification. 
(1) 
The draft certification shall be noticed in the Water Quality Information Bulletin, and shall 
include a request for comments to be submitted to the Division within thirty (30) days of 
publication in the bulletin, except when the draft certification is for a 402 permit. For a 402 
permit, the Division shall give notice of the draft certification pursuant to the procedures in 
Regulation 61.5(2)(e) (5 CCR 1002-61).The draft certification shall contain: 
(a) 
If applicable, a preliminary antidegradation determination in accordance with the 
Basic Standards and Methodologies for Surface Water, (5 CCR 1002-31), 
Regulation 31.8; and 
(b) 
A draft certification determination. 
(2) 
The final determination shall be prepared following the thirty day (30) public comment 
period on the draft certification. The final certification shall include any changes 
determined appropriate by the Division based upon public comments and information 
raised during the public comment period for the draft certification. Notice of a final 
antidegradation determination and final certification determination will be published in the 
Water Quality information Bulletin. 
(3) 
Emergency Certification of Section 404 Permits. Subsections 82.5(B)(1) and (B)(2) 
notwithstanding, whenever the USACE makes a determination that it will process an 
application for a section 404 permit pursuant to its Procedures for Emergency 
Authorizations, 33 CFR 325.2(e)(4), the Division may issue an emergency section 401 
certification pursuant to subsection 82.5(A)(4). Reasonable efforts will be made to receive 
comments from interested federal, state and local agencies and the affected public. 
(C) 
Other Division Procedures:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
8 
(1) 
The Division shall, where appropriate, or where requested, provide to commenters to the 
certification proceeding and to others upon request, its written analysis of its basis for 
certification, including identification of the stream segments affected, the potential water 
quality impacts identified as a result of the Project, and the results of any actions under 
subsection 82.5(A)(6) to prevent, reduce or mitigate water quality impacts associated with 
the exercise of water rights. A copy of any such analysis shall be provided to the federal 
permitting or licensing agency at the time of certification. 
(2) 
Where possible, the 401 certification process should be coordinated or consolidated with 
the scoping and review processes of other agencies, which have a role in a proposed 
Project in an effort to minimize costs and delays for such Projects. 
(3) 
When an issue involving section 25-8-104, C.R.S. is raised, the Division shall consult with 
the State Engineer and the Water Conservation Board in determining whether a 
contemplated 401 condition or denial may be inconsistent with section 25-8-104 of the 
Water Quality Control Act. 
(4) 
The Division shall complete the certification decision within a reasonable period of time 
as established at the time of the certification request. If the federal agency to whom 
license or permit application has been made has determined that an environmental 
impact statement, public hearing, or other action to supplement the body of information 
for the application is necessary, the Division may delay the issuance of a certification 
decision until a time not later than sixty (60) days, following the close of the administrative 
record, if it finds that such process may produce information relevant to the certification 
decision. If the Division finds that a delay is unavoidable, the Division shall provide the 
applicant notice of the delay, including an explanation of the reason for the delay. Any 
failure of the Division to issue a certification decision within the reasonable period of time 
shall be deemed as the Division expressly waiving the certification. The applicant for 
certification in coordination with the federal permitting agency, may waive the decision 
time frames above upon request by the Division. 
(D) 
Except for data determined to be confidential under section 25-8-405(2), C.R.S., or other 
applicable law, all reports and information prepared and submitted in accordance with the 
requirements herein shall be available for public inspection at the offices of the Division. 
(E) 
A 401 certification does not convey any property rights in either real or personal property, or any 
exclusive privileges, nor does it authorize any injury to private property or any invasion of 
personal rights, nor any infringement of federal, state, or local laws or regulations. 
(F) 
Nothing herein shall preclude the Division from initiating action for enforcement as may be 
provided by law. 
82.6 
CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS: 
(A) 
The following requirements shall apply to all certifications unless noted: 
(1) 
Authorized representatives from the Division shall be permitted to enter upon the site 
where the construction activity or operation of the Project is taking place to inspect for 
compliance with Control Measures, certification conditions, and any of the below 
requirements.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
9 
(2) 
In the event of any changes in control or ownership of facilities where the construction 
activity or operation of the Project is taking place, the successor shall be notified in 
writing by their predecessor of the existence of any Control Measures and certification 
conditions, if applicable. A copy of such notification shall be provided to the Division 
within sixty (60) days after the change in control or ownership. 
 
(3) 
Any diversion from or bypass of facilities necessary to maintain compliance with the 
requirements and/or conditions herein is prohibited, except (i) where unavoidable to 
prevent loss of life or severe property damage, or (ii) where excessive storm drainage or 
runoff would damage any facilities necessary for compliance with limitations and 
prohibitions herein. The Division shall be notified immediately in writing of each such 
diversion or bypass. 
(4) 
Immediately upon discovery of any spill or other discharge to waters of the state not 
authorized by the applicable license or permit, the permittee shall notify the following; 
(a) 
The Division; 
(b) 
Applicable local health departments; 
(c) 
Owners or operators of municipal and domestic water treatment intakes which 
are located within twenty miles downstream from the site of the Project; and 
(d) 
Owners or operators of other intakes or diversions which are located within five 
miles downstream from the site of the Project. 
The permittee shall maintain a list of the persons and entities notified, including the date 
and form of notification. 
(5) 
Construction operations within watercourses and water bodies shall be restricted to only 
those Project areas specified in the federal license or permit. 
(6) 
Work should be carried out diligently and completed as soon as practicable. To the 
maximum extent practicable, discharges of dredged or fill material shall be restricted to 
those periods when impacts to designated uses are minimal. 
(7) 
If applicable, the Project shall incorporate provisions for operation, maintenance, and 
replacement of Control Measures to assure compliance with the requirements identified 
in this section, and any other conditions placed in the permit or certification. All such 
provisions shall be identified and compiled in an operation and maintenance plan which 
will be retained by the Project owner and available for inspection within a reasonable 
timeframe upon request by any authorized representative of the Division. 
(8) 
The use of chemicals during construction and operation shall be in accordance with the 
manufacturer’ specifications. There shall be no excess application and introduction of 
chemicals into state waters. 
(9) 
All solids, sludges, dredged or stockpiled materials and all fuels, lubricants, other toxic 
materials shall be controlled in a manner so as to prevent such materials from entering 
state waters. 
(10) 
Discharges of dredged or fill material to state waters in excess of that necessary to 
complete the Project are not allowed.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
10 
(11) 
Discharges to state waters not identified in the license or permit and not certified in 
accordance therewith are not allowed, subject to the terms of any 401 certification. 
(12) 
Except as otherwise provided pursuant to subsection 82.7(D), no discharge shall be 
allowed which causes non-attainment of a narrative water quality standard identified in 
the Basic Standards and Methodologies for Surface Waters, Regulation No. 31 (5 CCR 
1002-31), including, but not limited to discharges of substances in amounts, 
concentrations or combinations which: 
(a) 
Can settle to form bottom deposits detrimental to beneficial uses; or 
(b) 
Form floating debris, scum, or other surface materials sufficient to harm existing 
beneficial uses; or 
(c) 
Produce color, odor, or other conditions in such a degree as to create a nuisance 
or harm existing beneficial uses or impart any undesirable taste to significant 
edible aquatic species, or to the water; or 
(d) 
Are harmful to the beneficial uses or toxic to humans, animals, plants, or aquatic 
life; or 
(e) 
Produce a predominance of undesirable aquatic life; or 
(f) 
Cause a film on the surface or produce a deposit on shorelines. 
(B) 
For granted certifications with conditions (82.5(A)(3)), if the permittee discovers that it is not in 
compliance with certification conditions, or if there is an exceedance of water quality standards 
despite compliance with the certification conditions and there is reason to believe that the 
exceedance is caused, in whole or in part, by the Project, the permittee shall verbally notify the 
Division of such failure or exceedance within two (2) working days of becoming aware of the 
same. Within ten (10) working days of such notification, the permittee shall provide to the 
Division, in writing, the following: 
(1) 
In the case of the failure to comply with the certification conditions, a description of (i) the 
nature of such failure, (ii) any reasons for such failure, (iii) the period of non-compliance, 
and (iv) the measures to be taken to correct such failure to comply; and 
(2) 
In the case of the exceedance of a water quality standard, (i) an explanation, to the 
extent known after reasonable investigation, of the relationship between the Project and 
the exceedance, (ii) the identity of any other known contributions to the exceedance, and 
(iii) a proposal to modify the certification conditions so as to remedy the contribution of 
the Project to the exceedance. 
(3) 
Any anticipated change in discharge location and/or quantities associated with the 
Project which may result in water quality impacts not considered in the original 
certification must be reported to the Division by submission of a written notice by the 
permittee prior to the change. If the change is determined to be significant, the permittee 
will be notified within ten (10) days, and the Division will acknowledge and approve or 
disapprove the change. 
(4) 
At least fifteen days prior to commencement of a Project in a watercourse, which the 
Division has certified, or conditionally certified, the permittee shall notify the following: 
(a) 
Applicable local health departments;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
11 
(b) 
Owners or operators of municipal and domestic water treatment intakes which 
are located within twenty miles downstream from the site of the Project; and 
(c) 
Owners or operators of other intakes or diversions which are located within five 
miles downstream from the site of the Project. 
(d) 
The permittee shall maintain a list of the persons and entities notified, including 
the date and form of notification. 
(B) 
Best Management Practices: 
(1) 
Best management practices are required for all Projects for which Division certification is 
issued except for section 402 permits. Project applicants must select BMPs to be 
employed in their Project. The Division maintains a policy document with best 
management practices. 
(2) 
All requests for 401 certifications shall include a map of the Project location, a site plan, 
and a listing of the selected BMPs chosen for the Project. At a minimum, each Project 
must provide for the following: 
(a) 
Permanent erosion and sediment control measures that shall be installed at the 
earliest practicable time consistent with good construction practices and that 
shall be maintained and replaced as necessary throughout the life of the Project 
(b) 
Temporary erosion and sediment control measures that shall be coordinated with 
permanent measures to assure economical, effective, and continuous control 
throughout the construction phase and during the operation of the Project. 
82.7 
IMPLEMENTATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF CERTIFICATIONS 
The Division is authorized to utilize the following approaches to ensure that the certification is 
implemented and maintained: 
(A) 
Upon receipt of information that water quality standards are being exceeded as a consequence of 
the Project's construction or operation, the Division, after consultation with the permittee and the 
appropriate federal permitting agency, may modify the certification and provide a copy of such 
modification to the federal permitting agency and applicant. 
(B) 
Upon receipt of information indicating that one or more certification conditions have not been 
complied with during the construction or operation of a Project, the Division shall notify the 
appropriate federal permitting agency in writing and request that necessary action be taken to 
implement such conditions as contemplated in Section 401(D) of the Federal Act. A copy of any 
such notification and request shall be sent to the permittee. The Division shall remain in 
communication with the federal permitting agency and the permittee regarding the progress 
towards implementation of the conditions until satisfactory compliance has been obtained, or until 
the federal agency has completed enforcement action. 
(C) 
If the procedures in subsection 82.7(A) and (B) above are unsuccessful at implementing the 
certification, in addition to enforcement authorities provided under the Water Quality Control Act, 
the Division may initiate procedures pursuant to section 24-4-104, C.R.S., to suspend certification 
for a defined period of time to enable the applicant to comply with the certification conditions or 
submit a new certification application, or to revoke the water quality certification. 
(D) 
Temporary exceedances of water quality standards shall be deemed in compliance with 
applicable provisions so long as such exceedance will not be of a degree to cause conditions

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
12 
acutely toxic to aquatic life or to exceed standards assigned to protect a domestic drinking water 
supply where that is a classified use. 
82.8 
REVIEW OF DIVISION 401 CERTIFICATIONS 
401 certification decisions of the Division shall be reviewable pursuant to section 25-8-302(1)(f), C.R.S., 
and the applicable provisions of the State Administrative Procedure Act. 
82.9 
SEVERABILITY 
The provisions of this regulation are severable, and if any provisions or the application of the provisions to 
any circumstances is held invalid, the application of such provision to other circumstances, and the 
remainder of this regulation, shall not be affected thereby. 
82.10 
Reserved 
82.11 
Reserved. 
82.12 
STATEMENT OF BASIS AND PURPOSE 
Certification by the State of Colorado under Section 401 of the Clean Water Act is required for issuance 
of Federal licenses and permits which may result in a discharge to waters of the United States in 
Colorado. At this time this requirement applies to Corps of Engineers individual 404 permits, and Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission licenses and permits, although these regulations do not restrict 
certification to those permits only. The Water Quality Control Division is given the certification 
responsibility under Section 25-8-302 of the State Act. These regulations satisfy the requirements of 
Section 25-8-101 et seq and 25-8-302 of the State Act. 
In adopting these regulations, the Water Quality Control Commission has determined that it is necessary 
for the State, acting through the Division, to determine whether the adopted stream classifications and 
water quality standards will be complied with rather than leaving this determination to the Corps of 
Engineers or other federal agency charged with issuing permits affecting state waters. Further, the 
Commission concluded that the basic stream standards included in Section 3.1.11 of the Basic Standards 
and Methodologies together with the numeric standards assigned to protect the classified uses of any 
segment or segments are to be considered by the Division when deciding whether to unconditionally 
certify, conditionally certify, or deny certification of federal licenses or permits. 
Any discharge into state waters, even an insignificant one, is recognized by the Commission as having 
the likelihood to cause noncompliance with stream standards for a short distance below the discharge 
point for a short duration. These regulations incorporate this concept by requiring the Division to consider 
effects on significant portions of stream segments for extended periods of time. 
It is recognized that the construction and operation of water diversion, conveyance, and storage facilities 
may result in unavoidable and permanent changes in the water quality characteristics of any segment of a 
stream which is inundated by the facility. These regulations are not intended to apply to or regulate such 
impacts. Furthermore, water quality changes which occur within diversion, conveyance and storage 
facilities, including daily or seasonal changes such as temperature stratification, turnover, changes in the 
level of dissolved oxygen, or other conditions associated with the capture, impoundment, diversion, 
conveyance, or release of water, are not considered to be noncompliance for the purposes of these 
regulations.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
13 
The Commission concluded that enforcement authority of the conditions of certification rests with the 
federal licensing agency. However, the Division is not prevented from notifying the federal agency 
pursuant to section 401(a)(5) of the federal act that a permitted activity is in violation of the certification or 
from initiating action against the federal agency in mandamus or as otherwise permitted by law to prevent 
the continuation of an activity in violation of a certification, particularly if attempts to resolve the matter 
through the federal licensing agency have been unsuccessful. 
The Commission considered the economic ramifications of these regulations and concluded that they 
were economically reasonable. The benefits which accrue to all as a result of maintaining the classified 
uses of the states waters and the water quality standards outweigh the minor costs associated with the 
imposition of the management requirements and additional requirements listed in 2.4.5. 
82.13 
Statement of Fiscal Impact 
The costs of complying with these regulations falls to those persons who are required to obtain federal 
licenses or permits for the discharge of certain materials into state waters. Since most federal licenses or 
permits will likely be certified with conditions, the costs will be associated with complying with the 
conditions (“MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS” and “ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS” in 2.4.5). These 
conditions are not extraordinary requirements not normally followed in construction, but rather are good 
construction and maintenance techniques which will not add appreciably to the costs of projects requiring 
federal permits or licenses. 
The benefits of these regulations fall to all persons who rely upon the classified beneficial uses of the 
state’s waters and the maintenance of the stream standards adopted to protect those uses. These 
benefits are considerable and far outweigh the costs of complying with these regulations, even if denial of 
certification in certain specific instances is necessary to protect the state’s waters. 
Since these regulations essentially codify procedures which have been followed for some time, except 
that even fewer and less restrictive conditions are available for application to specific permits, there is 
reason to believe that the costs of utilizing federal permits in Colorado will remain at or below historic 
levels. 
82.14 
FINDINGS REGARDING BASIS FOR EMERGENCY RULE, AND FISCAL IMPACT 
STATEMENT, FOR AMENDMENTS ADOPTED ON FEBRUARY 2, 1988. 
Background 
These changes have been adopted by the Commission to resolve a dispute as to whether the State 
currently has adequate authority to conduct the full certification required by section 401 of the federal 
Clean Water Act in connection with federal authorization of any activity that may result in any discharge 
into state surface waters. The revised language is intended to assure that the State has full authority to 
conduct the section 401 certifications required by the Federal Act. Language in the previous Statement of 
Basis and Purpose (2.4.11) that may have indicated more limited authority is hereby overridden. 
This dispute arose due to a controversy regarding section 401 certification in connection with issuance of 
a section 404 permit for a proposed new reservoir project. Along with clarifying the State’s intent to 
conduct the full section 401 certification, these amendments resolve the issue of how water quality 
standards and conditions are to be applied to the operation phase of water supply projects when 
conducting such reviews. The purpose of the new and amended provisions in section 2.4.5 is to establish 
broad authority to address water quality impacts, with a proviso intended to assure consistency with 
C.R.S. 25-8-104.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
14 
The Commission expressly recognizes that the character of a body of water changes from that of a 
flowing stream to that of a reservoir as the result of an impoundment. It is the intent of the Commission to 
integrate new state waters which result from impoundments into the existing classification and standards 
system, as appropriate. Whenever a reservoir is constructed, the Division shall evaluate factors such as 
the proposed uses and public access to such reservoir, and request that the Commission adopt 
classifications and standards to protect the uses of the new water body where appropriate. 
Control Regulations 
At the hearing there was considerable debate whether the Commission should adopt some portion or all 
of these amendments solely pursuant to the authority in C.R.S. 25-8-202(1)(i.5) (relating to regulations 
governing 401 certification activities), or rather pursuant to the authority in C.R.S. 25-8-205 (relating to 
control regulations). In order to help minimize the risk of any legal challenge to these amendments, the 
Commission has decided to adopt these changes pursuant to the provisions of both sections. 
In adopting these amendments, the Commission has considered the factors listed in C.R.S. 25-8-205(2). 
The amendments and the regulation as a whole are necessary to assure that applicable federally-
permitted activities will be in compliance with State water quality classifications and standards, and other 
water quality control requirements. The regulation does not specify treatment requirements that are 
automatically applicable to any particular types of discharges. Rather, the regulation relies principally on a 
list of management practices, monitoring requirements and mitigation requirements (in section 2.4.5) that 
may be applied in a particular case as necessary to assure compliance with applicable requirements. The 
inclusion of a wide variety of potential conditions is intended to assure that project-specific conditions can 
be formulated that will assure compliance with water quality standards and any other applicable 
requirements (e.g. other control regulations) in the most practical, economically and technically feasible 
manner available. The Commission believes that the amended regulation is consistent with existing 
federal water quality control requirements. 
The regulation as amended, through the list of potential conditions, provides flexibility to take into account 
the continuous, intermittent, or seasonal nature of a discharge to be controlled in developing conditions 
for individual projects. It is the intention of the Commission that these differences be taken into account by 
the Division in developing such project-specific conditions. Similarly, under the regulation as amended the 
Division will have flexibility to take into account the presence or absence of dilution flows, and the 
capacity of the receiving water to assimilate the discharge, in fashioning conditions for a project. 
Essentially all of the potential conditions in section 2.4.5 are safety precautions that may need to be taken 
in specific situations to protect water quality. The need to apply any specific conditions to an individual 
project to assure compliance with applicable water quality requirements should be assessed by the 
Division when acting on 401 certification requests. 
Emergency Adoption 
The Commission finds that the adoption of the amended regulation on an emergency basis is imperatively 
necessary for the preservation of the public welfare and that compliance with normal notice requirements 
would be contrary to the public interest. The State has a substantial interest in maintaining its autonomy 
in establishing and implementing an appropriate water quality control program for Colorado, including the 
application of water quality standards and other water quality control requirements, especially in view of 
Colorado’s complex, interrelated water quality and water quantity management systems. Expeditious 
approval of environmentally sound water development projects is an important state interest that should 
not be left to EPA control.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
15 
The public interest in State-rather than federal-water quality control decision-making is evidenced by the 
legislature’s adoption of the Water Quality Control Act, including a specific direction that the Commission 
adopt regulations to provide for State 401 certification determinations. Because there is not time to 
comply with the normal 60-day notice requirement for control regulations, this emergency action has 
become necessary to assure full and appropriate State decision-making with respect to two or three 
major water supply projects currently in the permitting process. There is a substantial public welfare 
interest in avoiding the uncertainty and duplication of review that is likely to occur without this emergency 
action. Substantial time and costs are likely to be associated with dual review procedures and delays in 
project authorization and construction. 
Moreover, it has been argued by some, including EPA, that if control regulations are not adopted on an 
emergency basis by the Commission, the 401 certification review for these projects will be conducted by 
EPA and that EPA will have no authority to apply water quality standards to the operational aspects of the 
projects. Therefore, in view of this legal uncertainty the emergency adoption is necessary to assure that 
there will be a meaningful and substantive 401 certification review for all aspects of these water supply 
projects. This requires not only amending the definition of “401 certification”, but also adopting 
appropriate revised and additional provisions to assure an adequate State review. 
Specific Amendments 
Several non-substantive, editorial changes have been made to make the regulation clearer and more 
understandable. Among the substantive changes, the definition of “401 certification” has been revised to 
assure that the State has authority to conduct the full 401 certification required for projects, including 
addressing the operational phase of projects. The definition of “compliance or comply” has been revised 
to clarify that while certain temporary exceedances of standards is allowed, there should be certain limits 
on the extent of such temporary impacts. This is necessary in order for water quality requirements to be 
applied meaningfully to the long-term operations of projects, as well as to the short-term construction 
phase to which the regulation originally applied. 
The definition of compliance, Section 2.4.4, and the introductory language of section 2.4.5 have been 
revised to clarify the Commission’s intention that water quality classifications and any other applicable 
water quality control requirements be complied with (along with effluent limitations and water quality 
standards) in issuing 401 certifications. The phrase “other water quality control requirements” refers to 
control regulations or other duly adopted and enforceable regulations. Certain other introductory language 
in section 2.4.5 also has been revised since the list of potential conditions in that section no longer is 
limited solely to “management practices.” 
Language has been added to conditions 3 and 4 in section 2.4.5 to allow these conditions to be applied to 
the operation phase of projects, as well as the construction phase. New condition 18 provides more 
general authority for the Division to impose requirements to assure compliance with applicable water 
quality requirements. The provision provides that the impacts of both the discharge of pollutants and 
hydrologic modifications may be addressed. There was considerable controversy over the inclusion of 
“hydrologic modifications,” due to the potential impact on water rights. The Commission has addressed 
this concern by the inclusion of the proviso that any conditions imposed must be consistent with section 
25-8-104 of the Water Quality Control Act. There may be hydrologic modification impacts that can be 
mitigated without materially injuring water rights. The Commission believes that it has a responsibility to 
assure the maximum practical water quality protection that does not conflict with the provisions of section 
25-8-104. Moreover, because of the wide variety of factual circumstances that may exist, the Commission 
has decided it is preferable at this time to leave the formulation of specific conditions in a manner that is 
consistent with section 25-8-104 to case-by-case determinations, rather than attempting to address all 
potential circumstances in this regulation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
16 
New condition 19 also provides important additional flexibility in the section 401 certification process. 
There may be situations where there would be a lack of compliance with applicable effluent limitations, 
water quality classifications and standards, or other water quality control requirements, which can not be 
avoided by imposition of conditions 1 through 18. In these circumstances, without condition 19 the 
Division would have no alternative but to deny certification, except where denial would be in conflict with 
Section 25-8-104 of the Water Quality Control Act. 
The intent of the language added to the end of section 2.4.7 is to assure that potential certification denials 
are handled in a manner consistent with section 25-8-104 of the State Act. This recognizes that in some 
circumstances a project may have water quality impacts that could be mitigated only by being 
inconsistent with section 25-8-104, and provides that due to section 25-8-104 the 401 certification will not 
be denied in such circumstances. In such cases, the Division shall identify any such water quality impacts 
for which mitigation is not being required by the State, due to the State policy established in section 25-8-
104, and recognize that this result is in conformance with State policy. 
Fiscal Impact 
Because a section 401 certification requirement has already been in place under the federal Clean Water 
Act and because the certification reviews have already been conducted by the Division pursuant to this 
regulation, no substantial fiscal impact is anticipated from this amendment for most projects. To the extent 
that the new and revised requirements in section 2.4.5 require monitoring and mitigation of water quality 
impacts that was not required previously for some projects, these changes could increase project costs 
for some applicants. However, the Commission finds that such conditions would result in corresponding 
environmental benefits by assuring compliance with water quality standards. Because of the wide variety 
of factual circumstances that may occur, it is not possible to quantify either the costs or the benefits at this 
time. Moreover, since without these conditions in some instances the Division’s only alternative would be 
to deny certification, these new provisions will in such circumstances have a positive economic impact in 
allowing projects to proceed. To the extent that some aspects of section 401 certification might otherwise 
have been performed by the Environmental Protection Agency instead of the State, this amendment 
should reduce the costs of the regulatory process to applicants who would otherwise have to deal with 
both agencies to obtain 401 certification. 
82.15 
FINDINGS REGARDING BASIS FOR EMERGENCY RULE AND STATEMENT OF BASIS, 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY, AND PURPOSE FOR ADOPTION OF PERMANENT RULE (January, 1989 
Amendments) 
EMERGENCY ADOPTION 
The Commission finds that the adoption of the amended regulation on an emergency basis is imperatively 
necessary for the preservation of the public welfare. Moreover, the Commission finds that for this rule not 
to be adopted with an immediate effective date would be contrary to the public interest. 
The State has a substantial interest in maintaining its autonomy in establishing and implementing an 
appropriate water quality control program for Colorado, including the application of water quality 
standards and other water quality control requirements, especially in view of Colorado’s complex, 
interrelated water quality and water quantity management systems. Expeditious approval of 
environmentally sound water development projects is an important state interest that should not be left to 
EPA control.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
17 
In order to assure adequate state 401 certification authority, on February 2, 1988, the Commission 
adopted certain emergency amendments to this rule. See Finding Regarding Basis for Emergency Rule, 
and Fiscal Impact Statement, for Amendments Adopted on February 2, 1988. By law, that emergency rule 
would expire on February 2, 1989. An emergency effective date for these new amendments is necessary 
to avoid any substantial gap in the effectiveness of fully adequate state 401 certification regulations. Such 
a gap could result in unnecessary confusion and substantial expense for project proponents seeking 401 
certifications during that period. Therefore, this amended regulation shall be effective immediately and 
shall remain effective on an emergency basis until March 2, 1989, at which time the amended regulation 
becomes permanently effective. 
BACKGROUND 
These changes have been adopted by the Commission to ensure that the State has adequate authority to 
conduct the full certification required by section 401 of the federal Clean Water Act in connection with 
federal authorization of any activity that may result in any discharge into state surface waters. The revised 
language is intended to assure that the State has full authority to conduct the section 401 certifications 
required by the Federal Act. Language in the previous Statement of Basis and Purpose (2.4.11) that may 
have indicated more limited authority is hereby overridden. 
Along with the clarifying the State’s intent to conduct the full section 401 certification, these amendments 
resolve the issue of how State use classifications and water quality standards and conditions are to be 
applied to all activities requiring a section 404 permit, including reservoir and water diversion projects. 
The purpose of the new and amended provisions is to establish broad authority to address all pertinent 
water quality impacts of 404 permitted activities during both the construction and operational phases of 
such projects. The regulation reflects the Commission’s twin responsibilities of preserving the water 
quality of the State by conducting full federal section 401 certification, while protecting the exercise of 
water rights by assuring consistency with C.R.S. 25-8-104. 
SOURCE OF AUTHORITY TO ADOPT REGULATION 
One threshold issue for the Commission is whether it should adopt some portion or all of these 
amendments solely pursuant to the authority in C.R.S. 25-8-202(1)(i.5) (relating to regulations governing 
401 certification activities), or rather pursuant to the authority in C.R.S. 25-8-205 (relating to control 
regulation). In order to help minimize the risk of any legal challenge to these amendments, the 
Commission has decided to adopt these changes pursuant to the provisions of both sections. 
In adopting these amendments, the Commission has considered all the factors listed in C.R.S. 25-5-
205(2). The amendments and the regulation as a whole are necessary to assure that applicable federally-
permitted activities will be in compliance with State water quality classifications and standards, and other 
water quality control requirements. (205(2)(a)). The regulation does not specify treatment requirements 
that are automatically applicable to any particular types of discharges. (205(2)(b)). Rather, the regulation 
relies principally on a list of management practices, monitoring requirements and mitigation requirements 
(in section 2.4.5) that may be applied in a particular case as necessary to assure compliance with 
applicable requirements. The inclusion of a wide variety of potential conditions is intended to assure that 
project-specific conditions can be formulated that will assure compliance with water quality standards and 
any other applicable requirements (e.g., other control regulations) in the most practical, economically and 
technically feasible manner available. (205(2)(c)). The Commission believes that the amended regulation 
is consistent with existing federal water quality control requirements. (205(2)(d)). 
The regulation as amended, through the list of potential conditions, provides flexibility to take into account 
the continuous, intermittent, or seasonal nature of a discharge to be controlled in developing conditions 
for individual projects. (205(2)(e)). It is the intention of the Commission that these differences be taken 
into account by the Division in developing such project-specific conditions. Similarly, under the regulation 
as amended, the Division will have flexibility to take into account the presence or absence of dilution 
flows, and the capacity of the receiving water to assimilate the discharge, in fashioning conditions for a 
project. (205(2)(f)).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
18 
Essentially all of the potential conditions in section 2.4.5 are safety precautions that may need to be taken 
in specific situations to protect water quality. The need to apply any specific conditions to an individual 
project to assure compliance with the applicable water quality requirements should be assessed by the 
Division when acting on 401 certification requests. (205(2)(g)). 
SUBSTANTIVE AMENDMENTS 
In adopting this regulation, the Commission has had to interpret and resolve several important issues 
flowing from the language of section 401 of the federal act, and from the interplay of this language with 
section 104 of the State Water Quality Control Act. The operative federal section 401 language requires 
that any “activity” which results in “any discharge” [a section 401 activity] must receive a State certification 
that the discharge will comply with applicable provisions of the federal act. These “applicable provisions” 
include the federal requirement that states establish water quality classifications, standards, effluent 
limits, and control regulations to protect water quality. Section 104 of the State Act forbids such water 
quality rules when they (1) “impair rights to divert... and apply water to beneficial uses,” (2) “result in 
material injury to water rights,” or (3) “require minimum stream flows.” 
The first major issue resolved by the amended regulation is that a Colorado 401 certification may address 
the water quality effects of a section 401 activity during both the construction and operational phases of 
the activity. Both such aspects of a section 401 activity affect water quality. The definition of “401 
certification” has been revised to assure that the State has authority to conduct the full 401 certification 
(2.4.3.1). Language has also been added to conditions 3 and 4 in section 2.4.5, and to requirements 1 
and 2 in section 2.4.6, to allow these conditions and requirements to be applied to the operation and 
construction phase of section 401 projects. 
The second important issue resolved by this regulation is the Commission’s determination that section 
401 of the federal act authorizes states to certify (1) that the “discharge” from the section 401 activity will 
comply with water quality requirements that may be imposed under state law, and (2) that changes in 
water quality caused by the activity producing the discharge will also so comply. Consistent with this 
interpretation of federal law, new condition 21 (of section 2.4.5) permits the Division to impose 
requirements on section 401 activities (1) to address “direct” water quality impacts resulting from the 
discharge, and (2) to address “indirect” water quality impacts resulting from the activity itself. Examples of 
the latter might include: changes in the character of a body of water caused by an impoundment, 
reservoir, or water diversion structure requiring a section 404 permit (and consequent state 401 
certification). The Commission believes that section 401 of the federal act and sections 25-8-202 and 25-
8-205 of the Colorado Water Quality Control Act authorize the impacts of these activities to be addressed 
to the extent they alter the biological, chemical, or physical integrity of the waters of the State. These 
impacts are indirectly caused by the discharge, in that they would not occur unless the discharge is 
authorized. 
The third significant issue resolved by this regulation involves the relationship between the Colorado 401 
certification process and section 25-8-104 of the State Act. The Commission interprets section 401 to 
require states to certify compliance only with those water quality rules that legally may be imposed under 
State law. Because section 104 helps define the range of permissible water quality rules under state law, 
the regulation provides that the Division may neither impose certification conditions inconsistent with 
section 104 (section 2.4.5.21), nor deny a certification where water quality impacts may be avoided only 
by imposing conditions inconsistent with section 104 (section 2.4.7).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
19 
The fourth key issue involves the Commission’s interpretation of Section 104 in the context of State 401 
certifications. Although the Commission recognizes that it is not the final judge of the precise meaning of 
the prohibitions found in section 104 (that being the responsibility of the legislature and the judiciary), it 
nevertheless believes it appropriate to provide guidance to the Division in ascertaining certification 
conditions and mitigation measures consistent with section 104. Therefore, while new condition 21 of 
section 2.4.5 permits the Division to require mitigation prior to certifying certain dams and diversions 
impacting water quality, condition 21 deems inconsistent with section 104 (and the lawful exercise of 
water rights) mitigation “requiring water to be released from impoundments or restricting the quantity of 
water withdrawn from the state water bodies...” Such conditions were thought either to require “minimum 
stream flows” or to “impair rights to divert water,” both of which are prohibited by section 104. 
To further assist the Division in interpreting section 104, and to ensure that the Division’s judgment about 
the scope of section 104 is not entirely dependent on an interpretation provided by parties seeking 401 
certification, the Division is required by section 2.4.8.6 to “consult with the State engineer and the 
Attorney General in determining whether a contemplated 401 condition or denial may be inconsistent with 
section 104...” 
SPECIFIC AMENDMENTS 
The definition of “401 certification” has been revised to assure that the State has authority to conduct the 
full 401 certification required for projects, including addressing the operational phase of projects. 
The definition of compliance, section 2.4.3.4, and the introductory language of section 2.4.5, have been 
revised to clarify the Commission’s intention that the Commission’s Basic Standards, including water 
quality classifications and any applicable water quality control requirements (along with effluent limitations 
and water quality standards) be complied with in issuing 401 certifications. The phrase “other water 
quality control requirements” refers to control regulations or other duly adopted and enforceable 
regulations. The definition of “compliance or comply” has also been revised to clarify that while certain 
temporary exceedances of standards are allowed, there should be certain limits on the extent of such 
temporary impacts. This is necessary in order for water quality requirements to be applied meaningfully to 
the long-term operations of projects, as well as to the short-term construction phase to which the 
regulation originally applied. 
Certain introductory language in section 2.4.5 has been revised since the list of potential conditions in that 
section no longer is limited solely to “management practices.” The introduction to section 2.4.5 has also 
been amended to reflect the Commission’s decision that certification conditions may be both technology-
based, and output-based (i.e., based on a achieving a specified level of ambient water quality). 
In order to provide reasonable assurance that water quality will be protected during the construction and 
operation of large, long-term, complex projects, the introduction of section 2.4.5 has been amended to 
permit the Division to add site-specific details to a condition impose under 2.4.5. New condition 22 also 
provides important additional flexibility in the section 401 certification process. There may be situations 
where there would be a lack of compliance with applicable effluent limitations, water quality classifications 
and standards, or other water quality control requirements, which cannot be avoided by imposition of 
conditions 1 through 21. In these circumstances, without condition 22 the Division would have no 
alternative but to deny certification, except where denial would be in conflict with section 25-8-104 of the 
Water Quality Control Act. 
Several sections have been amended or added to ensure that the public, appropriate health departments, 
and affected water users are notified of the effects of the section 401 activity. Section 2.4.5.1 and 2.4.5.10 
require the federal licensee or permittee needing certification to notify the above entities or (1) the project 
affecting water quality, and (2) the presence of any pollutants that may enter the watercourse as a result 
of the project. New section 2.4.6.7 permits the Division to provide a separate written analysis of its basis 
for certification when there is a high public interest in the project or where the Division in its discretion 
deems the separate analysis to be appropriate.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
20 
As a result of a stipulation agreed to by several parties to the hearing, several changes have been made 
to further the goal of coordination. Section 2.4.5.8 requires the permittee needing 401 certification to 
coordinate with downstream water purveyors to minimize impacts; on drinking water quality. New section 
2.4.8.5 urges that the 401 certification process be coordinated with parallel review processes of other 
government agencies (e.g., a federal NEPA review), in order to minimize duplication of effort and delays 
in project approval. 
Because of this same stipulation, section 2.4.5.9 has been amended so that the Division may impose 
conditions to prevent toxic pollutants from entering water courses. 
The Commission’s antidegradation rule is reflected in several amendments to the Commission’s 401 
certification regulation. The definition of “compliance or comply” in section 2.4.3.4 has been amended to 
reflect the limiting role played by the antidegradation rule when a section 401 activity threatens to 
degrade high quality waters. Amended section 2.4.8.2 extends the time for the Division to act on 401 
certification requests if an antidegradation review is required, in order to provide adequate time for public 
participation in such a review. 
The intent of the language added to the end of section 2.4.7 is to assure that potential certification denials 
are handled in a manner consistent with section 25-8-104 of the State Act. This recognizes that in some 
circumstances a project may have water quality impacts that could be mitigated only be being 
inconsistent with section 25-8-104, and provides that due to section 25-8-104, the 401 certification will not 
be denied in such circumstances. This result is acceptable according to the language and intent of 
section 401 of the federal act, which requires section 401 activities to comply only with State water quality 
laws that may be imposed under State law, not those forbidden under state law (i.e., by section 104 of the 
State Act). The Division shall identify water quality impacts for which mitigation is not being required by 
the State, due to the State policy established in section 25-8-104, and recognize that this result conforms 
to State policy. 
LIST OF PARTY PARTICIPANTS TO THE 401 CERTIFICATION PUBLIC RULEMAKING HEARING 
1. 
Metropolitan Water Providers Metro Water Participants (Providers) 
2. 
City of Fort Collins 
3. 
City of Colorado Springs 
4. 
Environmental Defense Fund 
5. 
Colorado River Water Conservation District 
6. 
Northern Colorado Water Conservancy District &Municipal Subdistrict 
7. 
City & County of Denver 
82.16 
STATEMENT OF BASIS SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY, AND PURPOSE: AUGUST, 
1994, RULEMAKING HEARING RESULTING FROM TRIENNIAL REVIEW 
The provisions of 25-8-202(1)(i.5) C.R.S. provides for specific statutory authority for these regulatory 
amendments. The Commission also adopted, in compliance with 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the following 
statement of basis and purpose. 
Basis and Purpose 
A. 
DEFINITIONS AND ORGANIZATION: 
In the purpose section, the Commission eliminated the possible confusion regarding the types of federal 
permits that the regulation applied to.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
21 
The Commission particularly noted that federal permits issued under Section 402 of the Federal Act are 
covered by the regulation. The current 401 regulation was designed primarily to consider the construction 
and operation aspects of 404 permits or FERC licenses. Because permits issued under section 402 do 
not involve the same type of certification analysis that 404 permits or FERC licenses do, the Commission 
anticipates that the requirements for certification of federal 402 permits will need to be revisited at a future 
rulemaking hearing to determine whether modifications to the regulation need to be made to address the 
402 permit certification issues that may arise as this regulation is implemented. It is also conceivable that 
the State will seek delegation of the federal facilities 402 permit program from the EPA which will render 
the certification of federal 402 permits moot. 
The Commission also decided to add several definitions and modify others to better clarify the 
terminology used in the regulation. 
The Commission determined that the previous organization of the regulation was awkward and 
redundant, particularly in Sections 2.4.4, 2.4.5 and 2.4.7 where much of the language covering division 
actions is repeated. Also, the Commission felt it was important to move the portion of the regulation on 
procedures near the beginning, and include sections on Applicability and Application Procedures to make 
the regulation more useable. The previous regulation contained a section (2.4.6) on certification 
requirements that included requirements for both the applicant and the division. The Commission 
determined that these two matters should be separated for improved organization of the regulation. 
Instructions for the division are included in 2.4.6(C), and the requirements for the applicant are in 
2.4.6(D). 
The thirty day time frame in which the division was to normally have reached a certification decision was 
eliminated from the final rule since it could prove unnecessarily constricting in circumstances where a 
complex situation presented itself requiring more than the usual scrutiny. The phrase “as soon as 
practicable” replaces the thirty-day timeframe, but the Commission continues to expect that in normal 
circumstances, the 401 decision will be rendered within thirty days. The sixty-day decision time frame in 
circumstances where a special information supplementing process is called for was retained as a means 
to assure that the decision process is not unreasonably delayed. 
The requirements contained in the application section are modest and are not considered to be a burden 
on the applicant. In the applicability section, the acknowledgment that Corps of Engineers nationwide or 
general permits can be used without further action by the division tracks precisely with the statutory 
requirement in 25-8-302(f). Also, in 2.4.4(C) the provisions that certification is to apply to both the 
construction and operation aspects of a project, and extend to the water quality impacts of a project are 
consistent with division policy throughout the history of 401 certification, and are properly codified in this 
regulation. To limit the division’s certification in either time or scope would invite federal intervention as 
contemplated in the Clean Water Act. By including this language in the regulation, the Commission 
understands that insignificant and transitory water quality impacts are not matters of concern in the 
division’s certification process, and that the division should focus on those impacts that have the potential 
to cause exceedances which could impair state classifications and standards. 
B. 
CHANGES TO DIVISION PROCEDURES AND DETERMINATIONS: 
The Commission determined that it was important to include the public notice procedures the division is to 
follow for both COE and other federal permits. The public notice provisions essentially are a reflection of 
the policies developed overtime by the division, and seemed to have served both the public and the 
applicant for certification well.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
22 
The heart of the regulation is found in 2.4.6(B) where the major elements comprising the division’s 
decision are set forth. In the former regulation, some of this guidance was missing and other portions 
were scattered throughout the regulation. These modifications bring the decision components together in 
one place, and clarify how the division is to arrive at a certification decision. One noteworthy change from 
the previous regulation is that Best Management Practices (BMPs), known previously as “management 
practices”, are now required for every certification, except for certification of federal 402 permits. The 
BMPs are nothing more than sound construction techniques which any responsible contractor would 
employ to protect the environment and public health. Except for federal 402 permits that do not involve 
construction, it is reasonable to require these practices for each certification, and not issue an 
unconditional certification without BMPs as was allowable in the former version of the regulation. The 
BMPs were left largely unchanged except for practice number 21 which allowed special conditions to be 
drawn up and included with the list of standard conditions. That practice was eliminated and instead was 
folded into 2.4.6(B)(4), Conditional Certification. Under these revisions, the division can clearly separate 
the need for special water quality protective conditions from the list of standard BMPs by performing its 
certification under the provisions of 2.4.6(B)(4) rather than (B)(3), Unconditional Certification. It was also 
determined that conditional certification may also contain mitigation measures acceptable to the applicant 
and the division, even those that may be beyond the authority of the division to impose. In the past, 
almost no certifications were issued without the list of “management practices” attached, so this 
clarification merely confirms division policy. The provisions for denial of certification were modified to 
recognize that the division should confer with the applicant for certification prior to denial to explore 
possible modifications to the project so that certification could be issued. Otherwise, the provisions for 
certification in those cases where denial would materially injure water rights has been retained. 
The Commission modified language in §2.4.6(B)(5) to now provide that the division shall deny certification 
if it concludes that there is not a “reasonable assurance” that the subject project will comply with listed 
state requirements. This language is consistent with language found in 401 certifications issued by the 
division, and with language found in section 401 of the Federal Clean Water Act and the EPA 401 
regulations. The Commission does not intend by this language to create any presumption that the project 
for which a 401 certification is sought will comply with state water quality requirements. Instead, the 
Commission intends this language to require the applicant for a 401 certification to come forward with 
sufficient information to enable the division to determine whether the project will comply with such 
requirements. Denial of a 401 certification is appropriate in the absence of such sufficient information. 
The Commission also modified language in §2.4.6(B)(5) that previously required the division to identify 
water quality impacts for which mitigation is not being required due to the state policy established in §25-
8-104, C.R.S. A number of parties pointed out that this language implied that the state policy established 
in §25-8-104, C.R.S. was undermining the division’s ability to address water quality issues in the context 
of 401 certification reviews. The Commission has therefore, changed this language to indicate that 
whenever material injury to water rights is an issue, the division, the applicant and other interested 
persons, will work together to examine and implement, where appropriate, means to avoid or mitigate 
water quality impacts consistent with the prohibition against material injury found in §25-8-104, C.R.S. 
Related language was added in §2.4.6(C)(1) whereby the division may prepare a written analysis of the 
basis for certification if appropriate or requested. The Commission anticipates that the division will 
prepare such an analysis for all significant 401 certifications and for those where the statutory prohibition 
against material injury to water rights is of particular concern. The Commission intends that this analysis 
will identify the water quality impacts associated with the project, and that it will discuss whether and to 
what extent mitigation was required or not required, particularly if water rights are involved. This analysis 
is to be provided to all commenters to the 401 certification process, and to all others who request it, and is 
to be submitted along with the 401 certification to the permitting or licensing federal agency. 
The Commission considered whether to include a provision allowing the division to waive certification 
where, even after receiving supplemental information, the nature and extent of water quality impacts 
remained uncertain. The notion of waiver provisions was rejected, however, since the Commission felt it 
was better to deny a certification under those circumstances rather than leave the water quality 
determination up to the federal permitting agency.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
23 
C. 
ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS: 
A new section 2.4.7 was included to describe the two options available to the division for insuring that 
certification conditions are implemented. In all cases where it is learned that the permittee has not 
implemented certification conditions, the division is to first notify the federal permitting agency and the 
permittee and request that action be taken to require the implementation of conditions. If such notification 
and follow-up is unsuccessful, the division can then consider initiating procedures available under the 
Administrative Procedure Act to suspend or revoke the certification. The Commission determined that 
such provisions are necessary and appropriate since the federal agency is required under Section 401 (d) 
to include certification conditions as part of the federal permit and require compliance with them as it 
would with any provisions of the permit. The Commission recognizes that if the federal permit or license 
has been granted prior to the revocation or suspension of a 401 certification, that the revocation or 
suspension will likely not have any effect on the validity of the federal license or permit. Nevertheless, the 
Commission believes that the revocation or suspension of a 401 certification would send a strong signal 
to the federal permitting or licensing agency, as well as the permittee or licensee, that compliance with 
the 401 certification conditions is not being met. Suspension or revocation is not expected to be used 
except in extreme circumstances where an impasse has been reached with both the permittee and the 
federal agency. 
PARTIES TO THE RULEMAKING HEARING 
1. 
Metropolitan Water Providers, Metropolitan Water Participants and the Metropolitan Water 
Authority 
2. 
City of Colorado Springs 
3. 
David R. Sturges, P.C. 
4. 
Colorado River Water Conservation District 
5. 
Environmental Defense Fund 
6. 
The Northwest Colorado Council of Governments 
7. 
High Country Citizens' Alliance 
8. 
Coors Brewing Company 
9. 
Metro Wastewater Reclamation District 
82.17 
STATEMENT OF BASIS SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY, AND PURPOSE: JULY, 1997, 
RULEMAKING 
The provisions of sections 25-8-202 and 25-8-401, C.R.S., provide the specific statutory authority for 
adoption of the attached regulatory amendments. The Commission also adopted, in compliance with 
section 24-4-103(4) C.R.S., the following statement of basis and purpose. 
BASIS AND PURPOSE 
The Commission has adopted a revised numbering system for this regulation, as a part of an overall 
renumbering of all Water Quality Control Commission rules and regulations. The goals of the 
renumbering are: (1) to achieve a more logical organization and numbering of the regulations, with a 
system that provides flexibility for future modifications, and (2) to make the Commission’s internal 
numbering system and that of the Colorado Code of Regulations (CCR) consistent. The CCR references 
for the regulations will also be revised as a result of this hearing.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
24 
82.18 
STATEMENT OF BASIS SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY, AND PURPOSE: MARCH, 
1999, RULEMAKING HEARING RESULTING FROM TRIENNIAL REVIEW 
The provisions of 25-8-202(1 )(i.5) C.R.S. provides for specific statutory authority for these regulatory 
amendments. The Commission also adopted, in compliance with 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the following 
statement of basis and purpose. 
Basis and Purpose 
A. 
Water Quality Control Division Proposals: 
These changes have been adopted by the Commission to correct typographical errors found in the 
regulation, to remove language which inaccurately describes the application process for certifications 
under the regulation, and to clarify the applicability of Best Management Practices to section 402 permits. 
The corrected typographical errors pertain to numbering errors in various portions of the regulation. The 
regulation has been modified to reflect correct section and subsection numbers. 
Section 82.4(B) and (C) were modified to remove the titles of individuals in the Division to whom 
certification applications should be made. The Division’s reorganization of 1997 removed the positions 
and work units referred to in the regulation. The changes clarify that application should simply be made to 
the Water Quality Control Division. 
Section 82.5(B)(2)(f) was added to clarify that information received during the public comment period 
would be considered during the Division’s 401 certification determination. This provision is consistent with 
current Division practices. 
Section 82.5(E) was modified to be consistent with the purpose statement found in section 82.1 of the 
regulation. Section 82.1 is clear in stating that the BMP’s are not applicable to section 402 permits. The 
first statement in section 82.5(E) was modified to include this exception. 
B. 
Trout Unlimited Proposals: 
1. 
Definitions. 
Trout Unlimited proposed revisions to the previous definitions of “certification” and “compliance or comply” 
in section 82.2(6), with a goal of assuring protection of the classified uses of state waters. In this 
rulemaking, the Water Quality Control Division asserted that the authority to protect uses already existed. 
In an effort to clarify the regulation in a manner consistent with federal and state law and existing practice, 
the Commission has made several revisions related to the definitions in section 82.2. 
First, the definition of “certification” has been revised to clarify that the Division must assure compliance 
with all applicable water quality control requirements for the affected waters in issuing a section 401 
certification, rather than solely with the specific requirements previously listed in the definition. The 
revised language also helps assure consistency with section 401 of the federal Clean Water Act by using 
the phrase “will comply”, rather than the previous “not expected to cause a violation of.” Second, the 
definition of “compliance or comply” was deleted from the regulation because it was found to be 
unnecessary. The revised definition of “certification” already encompasses the concept of complying with 
state water quality requirements. In addition, the references in the previous definition to averaging period 
and frequency of exceedance were unnecessary, since those considerations are addressed in the Basic 
Standards and Methodologies for Surface Water, which is explicitly referenced in the definition of 
“certification.” Finally, the language in the previous definition of “compliance or comply” regarding 
temporary exceedances has simply been moved to section 82.6, regarding enforcement of certification 
conditions.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
25 
2. 
Consideration of Section 25-8-104. 
Trout Unlimited proposed revisions to several subsections of section 82.5, proposing that more explicit 
references be added to the regulation regarding the Division’s consideration of section 25-8-104 of the 
Colorado Water Quality Control Act in making a section 401 certification determination. Section 25-8-104 
contains a number of provisions intended to limit the potential impact of water quality regulations on the 
exercise of water rights. 
To address this issue, the Commission adopted alternative language that was agreed to by the Division 
and all parties during the rulemaking hearing. In particular, a new subsection 82.5(B)(6) has been added, 
in place of language that has been stricken from subsection 82.5(B)(5). The primary change from 
previous language is a new provision directing) the Division to identify in the certification and in the notice 
of section 401 certification determinations instances in which section 25-8-104, C.R.S. has been applied. 
The Commission believes that the compromise language provides reasonable and straightforward notice 
of the application of section 25-8-104. 
Consistent with the agreement between the Division and the parties, the Commission also revised the 
language in subsection 82.5(C)(1) to provide that the Division “shall”, where appropriate or where 
requested, provide its written analysis of its basis for certifications, including the results of any actions 
under the new subsection 82.5(B)(6) discussed above. The Commission does not intend for the Division 
to prepare a separate analysis under this subsection regarding the basis for certification from that 
otherwise developed. The Commission believes that this is a reasonable approach that will provide 
necessary information to the public without creating an additional administrative burden for the Division. 
PARTY/MAILING LIST STATUS FOR THE RULEMAKING HEARING 
1. 
Trout Unlimited 
2. 
Coors Brewing Company 
3. 
The Northwest Colorado Council of Governments 
4. 
Colorado River Water Conservation District 
5. 
The City of Colorado Springs 
6. 
Northern Colorado Water Conservancy District and its Municipal Subdistrict 
7. 
The Cache La Poudre Water Users Association and the Thompson Water Users Association 
8. 
The Mineral Policy Center 
9. 
Sierra Club 
10. 
High Country Citizens' Alliance 
11. 
Upper Gunnison River Water Conservancy District 
12. 
The Board of County Commissioners of the County of Gunnison, Colorado 
82.19 
STATEMENT OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY, AND PURPOSE: OCTOBER, 
2000 RULEMAKING 
The provisions of 25-8-202(1 )(i.5) and 25-8-205 C.R.S. provide the specific statutory authority for these 
regulatory amendments. The Commission also adopted, in compliance with 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the 
following statement of basis and purpose. 
Basis and Purpose 
The changes to the regulations are the result of a one-year workgroup effort designed to improve the Best 
Management Practices (BMPs) that are required in 401 certifications by the Division. The changes also 
provide for a more streamlined public notice process, and improved opportunities for public comment on 
Division certification determinations.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
26 
A. 
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES 
The Commission adopted a new approach to the utilization of Best Management Practices (BMPs) in 401 
certifications. The changes provide for a more proactive process in the selection of BMPs. Applicants for 
401 certification, other than Federal Section 402 NPDES permits, are required to select BMPs, and 
commit to the operation, maintenance and replacement of these water quality protective measures. In the 
past BMPs were attached as conditions to 401 certifications. 
The definition of “BMPs” found in section 82.2 was changed to reflect the requirement for long term 
operation of BMPs, and also to reflect that BMPs combine structural and non-structural features. The 
definition of “Project”, found in section 82.2 was changed to make it more consistent with the language 
found in Section 401 of the Federal Act, and to eliminate some confusing language about spatial and 
temporal features of projects. The application process found in subsections 82.4 (A) and (C) was 
expanded to include a requirement for applicants to select BMPs appropriate for their project and to 
provide a site plan, description, and location of those BMPs. Subsection 82.4 (C)(5), which previously 
required information on “mitigation measures”, was deleted from the regulation since it was found to be 
duplicative with other requirements in the regulation. 
Subsection 82.6 (A), Certification Requirements, has been expanded to include a new subsection (11) 
that requires that projects incorporate provisions for the operation, maintenance, and replacement of 
BMPs to ensure compliance with certification. Subsection 82.6 (B) has been added to the regulation, and 
sets forth the requirements for BMPs. New language was added to the regulation in subsection 82.5(A)(3) 
to clarify the authority of the Division to require monitoring in 401 Certifications. 
The Division is required to certify that the construction and operation of the activity under review will 
comply with applicable State water quality requirements. In the case of “conditional certification”, the 
Division has determined that such compliance will be achieved only if one or more conditions are 
imposed. However, in certain situations, the efficacy of the conditions can be determined only after their 
implementation. Hence, during construction and, in what is anticipated to be a small number of situations, 
during operation, instream water quality measurements must be periodically taken in order to ensure that 
water quality standards are being met. Water quality monitoring may include chemical, physical, and 
biological parameters, depending upon the water quality standard(s) of concern. To the extent such a 
monitoring condition is imposed, it is intended to be cost effective, directed towards specific parameters of 
concern, and significantly curtailed or terminated if no persistent problem is found to exist. 
The “applicable requirements” referenced in section 82.5(A)(3) are the same as those identified in section 
82.5(A)(1), each of which relates to the maintenance of water quality standards and/or the protection of 
designated uses. The certification conditions will therefore, of necessity, be directed towards meeting 
these objectives. 
Relative to paragraph 82.6(A)(10), the Commission acknowledges that to complete work diligently and as 
soon as practicable, it may be required that such work be performed during other than periods when 
impacts are minimal. Hence, discretion will have to be exercised in determining what is practicable under 
all of the site-specific factors surrounding the project in question. These factors will include project design, 
economic feasibility, and project scheduling as related to the need for timely project completion. However, 
it is the intention of the Commission that the project proponent, in establishing the design and schedule 
for the project, should undertake advance planning so as to, to the extent feasible, accommodate the 
designated uses and avoid any adverse impacts thereto. 
Subsection 82.6(A)(11) requires the preparation of an operations and maintenance plan. However, the 
permittee shall be accorded flexibility relative to the exact content of such a plan so long as the provisions 
thereof demonstrate compliance with the certification conditions. A certification requirement has been 
added in subsection 82.6(A)(14) specifying that all seed, mulching material and straw used in projects 
shall be state-certified weed-free. This requirement will help minimize invasive species introduction that 
may adversely affect natural hydrologic conditions, e.g. increasing erosion and may help minimize the 
need for use of pesticides.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
27 
Appendix I was added to the regulation by the Commission to provide a basis for the public to understand 
BMPs and their importance in 401 certifications, and protecting water quality. Appendix I provides a listing 
of BMPs applicable to activities which seek 401 certifications in Colorado. The appendix provides a 
description of the types of practices, a matrix of activities and applicable BMPs, and a users guide in 
understanding the selection of appropriate BMPs for given activities. 
B. 
PUBLIC NOTICE 
The “Public Notice” and “Certification Determination” sections of the regulations, found in section 82.5, 
were changed to provide more opportunity for public review of certification determinations, and improved 
timeframes for certification determinations. The public notice requirements were changed to require the 
Division to prepare both a draft and final certification for each 401 certification action. The preliminary 
antidegradation analysis, which was previously a separate step in the process, is now a portion of the 
draft certification, and the final antidegradation determination will be included in the final certification. The 
public notice period for the new draft certification procedure is 30 days. The Division is providing more 
frequent notice of 401 certification decisions, to assure timely certification decisions. 
The language contained in subsections 82.5 (A) (2), (3), and (4), which establish the process for 
decisions on certification requests, was both clarified and simplified. The reference to the requirements of 
section 25-8-104 of the Colorado Water Quality Control Act was retained, and a new subsection 82.5 (A) 
(1) (h) was added to clarify the use of this information in Division determinations. 
C. 
OTHER CHANGES TO THE REGULATION 
Much of the regulation has been reordered and renumbered, and in some cases minor changes in 
wording have been made to either clarify or strengthen certain provisions. Many of the BMPs found in the 
previous regulation have been relocated in section 82.6 “Certification Requirements”. These requirements 
are good housekeeping features that apply to all 401 certification activities. 
PARTIES TO THE RULEMAKING 
1. 
Colorado Ski Country USA 
2. 
Trout Unlimited 
3. 
The City of Colorado Springs, including Colorado Springs Utilities 
4. 
The Northern Colorado Water Conservancy District and its Municipal Subdistrict 
5. 
The Northwest Colorado Council of Governments 
82.20 
STATEMENT OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY, AND PURPOSE, AND 
FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF EMERGENCY ADOPTION OF REVISIONS TO REGULATION NO. 82, 
THE 401 CERTIFICATION REGULATION (5 CCR 1002-82): 
The provisions of 25-8-202(1)(i.5) and 25-8-205 C.R.S. provide the specific statutory authority for these 
regulatory amendments. The Commission also adopted, in compliance with 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the 
following statement of basis and purpose, and, in compliance with section 24-4-103(6), C.R.S., the 
following Findings in Support of Emergency Adoption.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
28 
A. 
OVERVIEW 
The Corps of Engineers is authorized pursuant to section 404 of the federal Clean Water Act to 
implement Procedures for Emergency Authorizations in response to situations which “would result in an 
unacceptable hazard to life, a significant loss of property, or an immediate, unforeseen and significant 
economic hardship”. These procedures, contained in 33 CFR Part 325.2(e)(4) of the Code of Federal 
Regulations, address expedited procedures for review, coordination and decision making with respect to 
permit applications in emergency situations. Prior to this rulemaking the 401 Certification regulation did 
not incorporate provisions which would allow the Division certification process to accommodate an 
expedited federal section 404 permit process. 
The wildfires that have occurred in Colorado during 2002 have resulted in a number of situations where 
the Corps of Engineers anticipates exercise of its Procedures for Emergency Authorizations to consider 
permit applications for activities intended to mitigate fire impacts. These potentially include diversion of 
watercourses around homes, construction of flood control structures and sedimentation ponds, or 
reconstruction of water supply diversion structures. The Corps of Engineers operates under Procedures 
for Emergency Authorizations on an infrequent basis and then only in response to events such as 
flooding or wildfires. The Corps does not expect that a significant number of section 404 permit 
applications will be considered and issued pursuant to the Procedures for Emergency Authorization. 
B. 
EMERGENCY CERTIFICATION 
The Commission has inserted new provisions at sections 82.5(A)(4) and (B)(3) that authorize the Division 
to expedite consideration and issuance of section 401 certifications in response to Corps of Engineers 
use of its Procedures for Emergency Authorizations. 
The Commission added specific public notice procedures to section 82.5(B)(3) that allow the Division to 
issue Emergency Certifications without complying with the public notice requirements of subsections 
82.5(B)(1) and (2) in order to assure prompt resolution of certification requests. The Commission intends 
that, in instances where prompt consideration of a certification request is necessary to preserve public 
health, safety or welfare, the Division should have the flexibility to respond expeditiously. However, the 
Commission has included language to assure that reasonable efforts will be made to receive comments 
from interested federal, state and local agencies and the affected public. 
The addition of section 82.5(A)(4) will allow the Division to review and determine, on a site-specific basis, 
the extent to which application of one or more areas of consideration identified in section 82.5(A)(1) and 
the certification requirements in section 82.6 remain appropriate under emergency situations. The 
Commission intends that the Division will forego consideration of the factors listed in section 82.5(A)(1) 
and application of the certification requirements in section 82.6 only to the extent that certification without 
such consideration or such requirements is necessary to preserve public health, safety or welfare. 
C. 
FINDINGS IN SUPPORT OF EMERGENCY ADOPTION 
The 401 Certification Regulation, Regulation No. 82, previously lacked provisions to allow the Division to 
expedite consideration and issuance of 401 certifications in response to emergency conditions. For this 
purpose, emergency conditions correspond to those situations in which the Corps of Engineers uses the 
Procedures for Emergency Authorizations. Such situations are those which “would result in an 
unacceptable hazard to life, a significant loss of property, or an immediate, unforeseen and significant 
economic hardship”. The Commission has, by this rulemaking, adopted provisions necessary to allow the 
Division to respond to such emergencies expeditiously and with appropriate consideration of factors 
relevant to a certification.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
29 
If the Commission does not adopt revisions to Regulation 82 on an emergency basis, the Division will lack 
the ability to process 401 certifications in an effective and timely manner in response to emergency 
situations which the State now experiences. The Commission finds that immediate adoption of these 
revisions to Regulation 82 is imperatively necessary to preserve public health, safety and welfare and that 
compliance with the requirements of section 24-4-103, C.R.S., would be contrary to the public interest. 
These emergency revisions become effective upon adoption and shall remain in effect until March 31, 
2003. The Commission determined, pursuant to section 25-8-402(5), C.R.S., that this effective period is 
necessary to provide time to reconsider these revisions in a rulemaking hearing held in compliance with 
the requirements of section 24-4-103, C.R.S. 
82.21 
STATEMENT OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY, AND PURPOSE. 
The provisions of 25-8-202(1)(i.5) and 25-8-205 C.R.S. provide the specific statutory authority for these 
regulatory amendments. The Commission also adopted, in compliance with 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the 
following statement of basis and purpose. 
A. 
OVERVIEW 
The Corps of Engineers is authorized pursuant to section 404 of the federal Clean Water Act to 
implement Procedures for Emergency Authorizations in response to situations which “would result in an 
unacceptable hazard to life, a significant loss of property, or an immediate, unforeseen and significant 
economic hardship”. These procedures, contained in 33 CFR Part 325.2(e)(4) of the Code of Federal 
Regulations, address expedited procedures for review, coordination and decision making with respect to 
permit applications in emergency situations. Prior to this rulemaking the 401 Certification regulation did 
not incorporate provisions which would allow the Division certification process to accommodate an 
expedited federal section 404 permit process. 
The wildfires that have occurred in Colorado during 2002 have resulted in a number of situations where 
the Corps of Engineers anticipates exercise of its Procedures for Emergency Authorizations to consider 
permit applications for activities intended to mitigate fire impacts. These potentially include diversion of 
watercourses around homes, construction of flood control structures and sedimentation ponds, or 
reconstruction of water supply diversion structures. The Corps of Engineers operates under Procedures 
for Emergency Authorizations on an infrequent basis and then only in response to events such as 
flooding or wildfires. The Corps does not expect that a significant number of section 404 permit 
applications will be considered and issued pursuant to the Procedures for Emergency Authorization. 
B. 
EMERGENCY CERTIFICATION 
The Commission has inserted new provisions at sections 82.5(A)(4) and (B)(3) that authorize the Division 
to expedite consideration and issuance of section 401 certifications in response to Corps of Engineers 
use of its Procedures for Emergency Authorizations. 
The Commission added specific public notice procedures to section 82.5(B)(3) that allow the Division to 
issue Emergency Certifications without complying with the public notice requirements of subsections 
82.5(B)(1) and (2) in order to assure prompt resolution of certification requests. The Commission intends 
that, in instances where prompt consideration of a certification request is necessary to preserve public 
health, safety or welfare, the Division should have the flexibility to respond expeditiously. However, the 
Commission has included language to assure that reasonable efforts will be made to receive comments 
from interested federal, state and local agencies and the affected public.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
30 
The addition of section 82.5(A)(4) will allow the Division to review and determine, on a site-specific basis, 
the extent to which application of one or more areas of consideration identified in section 82.5(A)(1) and 
the certification requirements in section 82.6 remain appropriate under emergency situations. The 
Commission intends that the Division will forego consideration of the factors listed in section 82.5(A)(1) 
and application of the certification requirements in section 82.6 only to the extent that certification without 
such consideration or such requirements is necessary to preserve public health, safety or welfare. 
C. 
OTHER ISSUES 
In addition to the revisions noted above, in this rulemaking the Commission added Figure 1 back into 
Appendix 1 of the regulation. This is a correction to the published version of Regulation #82 to conform 
the regulation to the Commission’s decision in an October 2000 rulemaking. 
82.22 
STATEMENT OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY, AND PURPOSE: NOVEMBER 
13, 2018 RULEMAKING; EFFECTIVE JANUARY 31, 2019. 
The provisions of 25-8-202(1)(i.5) and 25-8-205 C.R.S. provide the specific statutory authority for these 
regulatory amendments. The Commission also adopted, in compliance with 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the 
following statement of basis and purpose. 
BASIS AND PURPOSE 
The Commission has adopted revisions to this regulation to update procedures, correct typographical 
errors and to include a fee structure that was enacted by House Bill 15-1249. Since the last update to the 
regulation in 2003, the Division has issued 401 certifications for three large water supply Projects. The 
process of issuing these certifications highlighted language in the regulation that was not specific enough 
and allowed for alternative interpretations of the regulation. The regulation was updated to add clarity and 
minimize confusion. 
Section 82.4 – Application for Water Quality Certification 
Section 82.4(A) was modified to add the 401 water quality certification request form and the fee structure 
table explaining the tiers and the fees associated with processing the 401 certification application. 
The summaries of the Project tiers and associated fees that are used in the table in section 82.4(A)(4) 
were derived from section 25-8-502(1.2)(a), C.R.S. 
Section 82.4(A)(4) also clarifies that fees for tiers 1 and 2 Projects are due at the time of application. For 
tier 3 and 4 Projects, a pre-application meeting will be held with the applicant for the development of a 
billing agreement. During the pre-application meeting, the Division and applicant shall negotiate in good 
faith regarding the fees to be billed and will identify a process by which fee disputes will be resolved 
between the parties. The billing agreement will include the Division’s estimated costs within the state 
fiscal year (July 1-June 30), with a new billing agreement to be prepared each year. The Division can only 
charge for costs actually incurred, and the Division may prepare a revised billing agreement if the costs 
are underestimated in the initial agreement. The Commission expects that the Division and the applicant 
will be in close and frequent contact before the Division spends its time and/or resources on any 
evaluation (including participation in any federal processes associated with the Project) to discuss the 
Division’s tier determinations and expectations for any associated fees. 
Language was also added to Section 82.4(C) referencing the fees for all Projects except for USACE 404 
Projects.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
31 
Section 82.5 – Division Procedures and Determinations 
Section 82.5(A) (Division Certification Determination) was modified to include National Environmental 
Policy Act (NEPA) documents that the Division can review for the 401 certification determination. In 
Section 82.5 (A)(1)(a), language was added to reference Regulation 31 in the antidegradation review for 
the 401 certifications. 
Section 82.5(A)(1)(a) was expanded to clarify the applicability of antidegradation “significance 
determinations” conducted under section 31.8(3)(c) in the context of 401 certification review for FERC 
licenses and USACE 404 permits. This new language provides that in making significance determinations 
for any reviewable waters impacted by a proposed Project, the Division may balance the predicted water 
quality impacts of the proposed Project on those reviewable segments against the predicted benefits of 
any proposed water quality improvements or water quality mitigation measures to other segments within 
the Project area (regardless of their designation: use protected or reviewable). Where possible, such 
water quality improvements or mitigation measures shall be located in the same watershed where the 
reviewable segment(s) are located. In some cases direct mitigation on the same segment is not possible. 
There are two objectives that are typically considered in the development of conditions. The first is to 
ensure that significant water quality impacts are mitigated wherever possible. While direct mitigation for 
hydrologic modification Projects may be challenging, it is important to apply these conditions where they 
can be effective and where they are consistent with section 25-8-104 of the Water Quality Control Act. 
The second objective is to provide reasonable assurance that commitments made for mitigation of 
impacts and improvements to water quality provide the expected benefits. Existing mitigation and 
improvement measures from other permits or agreements, if successful, may contribute to “net 
environmental benefit” as it relates to the significance determination in the antidegradation review. 
Section 82.5(A)(1)(g) was added to indicate that the Division may take local, state or federal permits, or 
agreements between the applicant and such agencies into consideration when considering whether to 
issue a 401 certification. The Division will consider the water quality-related implications of such permits 
and agreements in conducting its underlying analysis. The Division will not use this regulatory language 
to adopt conditions outside of its jurisdictional authority. The Division will not incorporate any such 
agreements or permits as conditions in the 401 certification, except the Division may in its discretion 
include Division-issued permits/authorizations or prior agreements entered into between the Division and 
the applicant as conditions. The Division may also establish independent conditions that would account 
for water quality improvements, or mitigation measures contained in any permit or agreement that might 
cease to exist in the future. 
Section 82.5(A)(2) (Regular Certification) was revised to reiterate the federal requirement in 40 CFR 
121.2(a)(3) that the Division must have reasonable assurance the Project will be conducted in a manner 
that will comply with the 401 certification requirements. 
Section 82.5(A)(3) (Conditional Certification) was also modified to add similar language indicating that 
under 40 CFR §121.2(a)(3) the Division must have a reasonable assurance that the Project will comply 
with the 401 certification requirements with additional conditions required by the Division. 
Language was also included in the conditional certification provision to make it clear, for consistency with 
Regulation No. 31, section 31.8(3)(c), that any water quality improvements or mitigation measures relied 
upon in making a “no significant degradation” determination will be incorporated as conditions in the 401 
certification.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
32 
Language was also added to section 82.5(A)(3) to specifically identify the use of adaptive management 
as a condition to certification. Based on the Division’s experience and examples from other states, the 
Commission recognizes the critical importance of incorporating the concept of adaptive management as a 
condition for large, multi-year water Projects in order to satisfy the federal “reasonable assurance” 
requirement. This component was added to allow large water Projects to adjust mitigation based on the 
uncertainty of the water quality impacts that were modeled for the Project. 
The adaptive management condition also allows flexibility due to uncertainty based on the potential for 
water quality standards changes during the life of the certified Project. The Commission believes this 
concept is consistent with the federal requirement that “activities will be conducted in a manner which will 
not violate applicable water quality standards.” 40 CFR 121.2(a)(3). The Commission recognizes that 
“applicable water quality standards” can and do change over time, and adaptive management is intended 
to provide the flexibility for multi-year Projects to account for and comply with such changes. The 
Commission’s legal authority to adopt this provision also stems from the broad authority provided to the 
state in Section 401 of the federal Clean Water Act, as well as sections 25-8-202(1)(i.5) and 25-8-
205(1)(c), C.R.S. of the Water Quality Control Act. The Division’s authority to implement this condition is 
found at section 25-8-302(1)(f), C.R.S. 
In practice, the Division develops conditions based on the available data, the modeled analysis of such 
data, and applicable water quality standards at the time of certification. Parameters are identified that are 
predicted to exceed standards or antidegradation review requirements through the initial impacts 
analysis. Conditions are then developed for each of these parameters to address future impairments from 
the Project. Adaptive management conditions are not written to the specific numeric value (i.e., 4.6 μg/l), 
but instead simply reference the applicable standard. If the standard changes, the numeric value used as 
the basis for the condition will change as well. For example, if after the time of the certification, the 
Commission adopts a site-specific temperature standard that is less stringent than the standard used for 
the initial impacts analysis, the less stringent standard will be used to assess that condition. Alternatively, 
if a more stringent selenium standard were to be adopted by the Commission in the future, this standard 
would be used to assess selenium conditions. 
The Division does not develop conditions for pollutants for which there was not a predicted impact or 
concern at the time of certification. There may be a case, however, where there was a predicted impact 
for one metal and additional metals were added to the adaptive management condition to ensure 
continued attainment of the other metals standards. Similarly, the Division does not develop conditions for 
other pollutants for which no standards exist at the time of certification. The Commission understands that 
the Division does not intend to predict standards for new pollutants that may be adopted by the 
Commission in the future. And along these lines, the Division would not require monitoring for every 
potential emerging contaminant. 
If monitoring in an adaptive management condition indicates an exceedance of water quality standards, 
the Project proponent will be required to conduct an investigation to determine if the Project is 
contributing to the impairment. If the Project is determined to be the cause of the impairment, then the 
Project proponent is required to develop a Category 4b Plan. A Category 4b plan is a regulatory 
alternative to a TMDL that address water quality impairments. The plan identifies mechanisms that are 
expected to result in attainment of water quality standards in a reasonable period of time. 
In implementing adaptive management plans, the Commission encourages Project proponents to 
collaborate with affected local entities and other government agencies. The Commission recognizes that 
local participation in adaptive management is very important. Therefore, adaptive management generally 
should be designed to include the participation of the local government and other stakeholders in the area 
affected by the operation of the Project wherever possible.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
33 
Section 82.6 – Certification Requirements 
Language was added to Section 82.6 (A)(9) that will require the applicant to notify the Division before 
work occurs below the existing water surface. The intent of this addition is to allow the Division to be 
aware of construction activities that occur below the water surface in the event the Division is contacted 
by concerned entities. 
Appendix I 
The information that was contained in Appendix I, regarding Best Management Practices for the Clean 
Water Act Section 401 Certifications, was updated and it was determined that this information should be 
removed from an appendix to the regulation and instead should be contained in a Division policy so that it 
can be updated more frequently. 
82.23 
STATEMENT OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY, AND PURPOSE: OCTOBER 
15, 2024 RULEMAKING, FINAL ACTION NOVEMBER 12, 2024, EFFECTIVE JANUARY 31, 2025. 
The provisions of sections 25-8-202(1)(i.5) and 25-8-205 C.R.S. provide the specific statutory authority for 
these regulatory amendments. The commission also adopted, in compliance with 24-4-103(4), C.R.S., the 
following statement of basis and purpose. 
BASIS AND PURPOSE 
The commission adopted revisions to this regulation to update procedures and requirements established 
by the EPA in the “Clean Water Act Section 401 Water Quality Certification Improvement Rule,” 88 Fed. 
Reg. 66,558 (Sept. 27, 2023), as codified at 40 C.F.R. Part 21 (“2023 Rule”) which went into effect in 
November 2023. The regulation was also updated to correct typographical errors and clarify language 
throughout. The 2023 Rule was promulgated to clarify and provide nationwide consistency for 401 
certification procedures. The rule includes a requirement for pre-filing meetings, requirements for 401 
certification requests, establishing a “reasonable period of time” for states to process certification 
requests in conjunction with the federal permitting agency, and details concerning certification decisions. 
Section 82.1 – Purpose 
Section 82.1 was modified to reflect new vocabulary and certification decisions that are used in the 2023 
Rule, and to add additional language that clarifies the purpose of Regulation 82. Also, the new language 
will direct potential applicants to Clean Water Policy 12 (Selection of Water Quality Best Management 
Practices for Regulation No. 82), where the “control measures” are located. 
Section 82.2 – Definitions 
Section 82.2(2) was modified to ensure “402 Permit” refers to all permit types, both individual and 
general, to be consistent with the existing requirement in Section 82.3(A) that no federal license or permit 
is issued without the water quality certification required under Section 401 of the federal Act. 
Section 82.3 – Applicability, Scope, Incorporation by Reference

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
34 
The commission added “Incorporation by Reference” to the title of this section. The commission also 
added new Subsection (D) to include expiration dates of tier 1 and tier 2 projects five years after the 
certification was granted. Tier 1 and tier 2 projects do not always commence immediately after the 
issuance of an individual 404 permit. The standards and antidegradation designation can change for the 
relevant waterbody before construction begins on a project if there are longer delays. If the waterbody 
standards and/or designations change before construction begins, this can change the water quality 
impact analysis on which the original certification was based. It is unnecessary to apply the five-year 
expiration date to Tier 3 and Tier 4 projects because they are typically large water supply projects where 
the application is submitted after months or even years of coordination with the division. Tier 3 and Tier 4 
projects require additional coordination and permitting steps among multiple regulatory authorities. The 
time required for this process means construction may not start within five (5) years of the date of a 401 
certification, and if subject to an expiration date, the certification could expire before any meaningful data 
can be collected. Additionally, these projects have conditions that typically include reporting requirements 
and adaptive management provisions to continually evaluate potential changes in the impact a project 
might have on water quality, so no expiration date was adopted for Tier 3 and Tier 4 project certifications. 
It is also unnecessary to place expiration dates on FERC licensing projects due to the complexity and the 
longevity of these types of projects, similar to the reasoning previously stated for Tier 3 & Tier 4. 
Language was also included that allows tier 1 and tier 2 project applicants to request extensions to the 
401 certification deadline. Applicants can receive an exemption from the expiration date, where there is a 
pending legal challenge relevant to the certification but need to contact the division to inform them of the 
legal challenge and its status. The commission also added a new subsection (E) that discusses 
incorporating references to federal regulations into Regulation 82 as required by the Administrative 
Procedure Act, section 24-4-103(12.5), C.R.S. 
The following language was added to section 82.3(B) “However, applicants must adhere to the 
requirements in 82.6(A) as applicable.” The date was corrected from October 8, 2024 to October 15, 2024 
to reflect the correct hearing date in Section 82.3(E) 
Section 82.4 – Application for Water Quality Certification 
82.4(A) was modified to clarify that the requirements in this subsection only apply to individual 404 
permits and to add language explaining that the division will determine completeness of requests for 
certification, in alignment with the 2023 Rule. 
82.4(A)(1) was added to require applicants to provide documentation of the 30-day pre-filing meeting 
request and to list the documentation that should be included in certification requests associated with 
individual 404 permits. When an applicant requests a pre-filing meeting (a minimum of 30-days in 
advance) they need to include a project description, project location, and approximate project 
construction timeline. 
82.4(A)(4) was added to require applicants to provide any readily available water quality related materials, 
in alignment with the 2023 Rule. 
82.4(B) was modified to require the applicant for an EPA-issued Section 402 permit to provide 
documentation of the 30-day pre-filing meeting request. 
82.4(C)(1) was added to require the applicant for a FERC license or any other federal license or permit to 
provide documentation of the 30-day pre-filing meeting request. 
82.4(C)(2) was added to require a completed copy of the division’s certification request form for 
certifications associated with FERC licenses and other federal licenses and permits. 
82.4(C)(3) was added to clarify that a copy (rather than the original) of the federal license or permit is 
required as part of the application submission for certifications associated with FERC licenses and other 
federal licenses and permits.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
35 
82.5(C) was updated to say “Any readily available water quality related materials that informed the 
development of the 404 permit application or draft permit” to be consistent with the requirements in 
82.4(A)(4) and the EPA’s 2023 Rule. 
82.4(D) was modified to acknowledge that the division is responsible for determining whether sufficient 
information has been provided to consider a request for certification complete, in alignment with the 2023 
Rule. 
Language was also added to 82.4(D) to clarify that the division - in coordination with the appropriate 
federal permitting agency - will establish the “reasonable period of time” for processing certification 
requests per the 2023 Rule. This language also sets forth the maximum reasonable period of time of one 
year and default reasonable period of time of six months, as well as an explanation of the process 
required for the division to extend the reasonable period of time. This section was also reformatted to help 
make it easier to distinguish between the “reasonable period of time” and the process for extending the 
“reasonable period of time”. 
82.4(E) was added to confirm that the division will provide written confirmation that includes the date the 
request for certification was received by the division. It also states that this written confirmation will be 
sent to the federal permitting agency in addition to the project proponent as required by the 2023 Rule. 
Section 82.5 – Division Procedures and Determinations 
All references to “reasonable assurance” were removed from section 82.5. 
Section 82.5(A)(1)(e) was modified to replace the term “Best Management Practices” with “Control 
Measures” and to include a reference to the division’s Clean Water Policy 12, Selection of Water Quality 
Best Management Practices. 
Section 82.5(A)(1)(f) was modified by deleting the word “stormwater” in order to reference all of the 
discharge requirements, as appropriate, in Regulation No. 61 (5 CCR 1002-61). Because the 
requirements in Section 82.5(A)(1) are applied as appropriate, only the specific provision of Regulation 
No. 61 that are relevant and applicable to the activity being proposed will be considered as part of the 
Division’s determination, and this will not broaden the scope of certification review for 404 permits or 
FERC licenses when only stormwater discharges occur. 
Language was updated in both 82.5(A)(2) and 82.5(A)(3) to replace “issue” with “grant” to align with the 
2023 Rule language. 
82.5(A)(7) was added to explain that a certification not acted on within the reasonable period of time has 
been expressly waived by the division. This has always been the assumed practice but never expressly 
included in the regulation. 
Section 82.5(B)(1) was modified for 402 Permits to allow efficient use of the existing public notice 
provisions for the Colorado Discharge Permit System in Regulation No. 61.2(5)(2)(e) (5 CCR 1002-61). 
82.5(C)(4) was modified to bring the reasonable period of time language into alignment with the 2023 
Rule and to reiterate language discussed in Section 82.5(A).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1002-82 
Water Quality Control Commission 
 
36 
Section 82.6 – Certification Requirements 
The commission updated the language in section 82.6 to clarify the applicability of state requirements to 
401 certifications. These updates include the use of new terminology and further distinction between 
certification conditions and state requirements. In practice, the division historically included a copy of 
section 82.6 with the final 401 certification letters for individual 404 permits, but due to changes in the 
federal 401 guidance there was confusion over what is a “condition” enforceable under the 404 permit 
and what is a stand-alone state “requirement.” The modification to section 82.6 eliminates that confusion 
and is consistent with section 25-8-302(1)(f), C.R.S. The modification establishes two subsections: (A) 
which applies to all certifications; and (B) which applies only to conditional 401 certifications for individual 
404 permits. 
82.6(A)(1) was revised to clarify that authorized representatives from the division are allowed to access 
the project site during the construction and operation of a project to inspect the control measures, 
certification conditions (if applicable), and any of the below requirements. 
82.6(A)(2) clarifies the requirements when there is a change in ownership or control of the project. 
82.6(A)(3) describes exceptions for diversion from or bypasses of facilities to maintain compliance with 
the certification requirements (formerly found in 82.6(A)(5)). 
82.6(A)(4), formerly 82.6(A)(7), clarifies that the division should be contacted in the event of a spill or 
other discharge not authorized by the 401 certification. 
82.6(A)(9) "No construction equipment shall be operated below the existing water surface until the 
Division is notified.” was deleted, because it is redundant to the requirements in §82.6(A)(4), which 
requires the applicants to notify the Division upon the discovery of any “spill or other discharge” that is not 
authorized by the applicable license or permit. 
82.6(A)(15) concerning the use of certified weed free materials for control measures and mitigation was 
deleted because these are requirements that are already located in USACE 404 permit mitigation 
requirements. This information is also located in Clean Water Policy 12. 
82.6(B) (previously titled Best Management Practices) was replaced with “Requirements for conditional 
401 certifications for individual 404 permits.” The former section was deleted to eliminate redundancy with 
language earlier in the regulation directing 401 certification applicants to utilize the Best Management 
Practices in Clean Water Policy 12. The new section 82.6(B) describes the state requirements for 401 
certifications that are granted with conditions. By including these requirements in this section of the 
regulation, the commission intends to clarify that these are indeed state requirements rather than 
conditions incorporated into a federally-enforceable 404 permit. 
_______________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule, section 82.22 eff. 01/31/2019. 
Entire rule, section 82.23 eff. 01/31/2025.
