---
id: "5_CCR_1001-15"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "5 CCR 1001-15"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=11881&fileName=5%20CCR%201001-15&type=pdf"
---

#### 5_CCR_1001-15. 5 CCR 1001-15

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
Air Quality Control Commission 
REGULATION NUMBER 12 REDUCTION OF DIESEL VEHICLE EMISSIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Outline of Regulation 
PART A 
DIESEL FLEET SELF-CERTIFICATION PROGRAM 
PART B 
DIESEL OPACITY INSPECTION PROGRAM 
PART C 
STANDARDS FOR VISIBLE POLLUTANTS FROM DIESEL ENGINE POWERED 
VEHICLES (Operating on Roads, Streets and Highways) 
PART D 
STATEMENT OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE 
PART A 
DIESEL FLEET SELF-CERTIFICATION PROGRAM 
I. 
General Provisions 
I.A. 
Statement of Purpose 
The purpose of Part A of this regulation is to reduce air pollution resulting from emissions from diesel-
powered motor vehicles in the Program Area through opacity inspections by all diesel fleets registered or 
routinely operated in the program area, or principally operated from a terminal, maintenance facility, 
branch, or division located within the program area as defined in 42-4-401 (8) C.R.S. with nine (9) or 
more vehicles greater than fourteen thousand pounds gross vehicle weight rating per vehicle. Regulation 
Number 12 is a State-Only program and is not part of any state implementation plan with the US EPA. 
I.B. 
Definitions 
The following terms shall have the following meanings when used in this regulation: 
I.B.1. 
“Commission” means The Colorado Air Quality Control Commission 
I.B.2. 
“Compliance Plan” means a written plan of action completed by applicable diesel vehicle 
fleets conforming with the requirements of this regulation. 
I.B.3. 
“Certification of Emissions Control” (CEC), means the official certificate issued by a 
private (non-government) fleet opacity inspector to a fleet vehicle which has been 
inspected and tested according to the procedures in Part A, IV., and is in compliance with 
the opacity standards. 
I.B.4. 
“Diesel Fleet Self-Certification Program” (DFSCP) means the Opacity Inspection Program 
for Diesel Powered Fleet Vehicles Established by Section 42-4-414 C.R.S., as amended, 
and the Air Quality Control Commission, as AQCC Regulation Number 12, Part A. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
2 
I.B.5. 
“Diesel Powered Motor Vehicle” or “Diesel Vehicle” as applicable to opacity inspections, 
includes only a motor vehicle with four wheels or more on the ground, powered by an 
internal combustion, compression ignition, diesel fueled engine, and also includes such a 
motor vehicle having a personal property classification of A, B, or C, pursuant to Section 
42-3-106, C.R.S., as specified on its vehicle registration, and for which registration in this 
state is required for operation on the public roads and highways. “Diesel Vehicle” does 
not include the following: vehicles registered pursuant to Section 42-12-301, or 42-3-306 
(4), C.R.S. off- road use only powered vehicles or heavy construction equipment. 
I.B.6. 
“Division” means the Air Pollution Control Division of the Colorado Department of Public 
Health and Environment. 
I.B.7. 
“Excessive Violation” means non-compliance with the provisions of Part A, II.A.2.b., c., d., 
or i. of this regulation, or falsely making a certification that a vehicle is “physically based 
and principally operated outside the program area” pursuant to 42-4-414 (2.5) or the 
provisions of I.E. of this Part A. 
I.B.8. 
“Fleet” means a diesel vehicle fleet consisting of nine (9) or more diesel vehicles greater 
than fourteen thousand pounds gross vehicle weight rating per vehicle, registered or 
routinely operated in the program area, or principally operated from a terminal, 
maintenance facility, branch, or division located within the program area. 
I.B.9. 
“Fleet Emissions Inspector” means an inspector with a valid Emissions Determination 
Certification issued by the Division who is employed full time by a registered Diesel Self 
Certifying Fleet. 
I.B.10. “GVWR” (gross vehicle weight rating) means the weight specified by the vehicle 
manufacturer as the maximum allowable loaded weight (vehicle empty weight plus the 
driver, passengers and payload) of a single vehicle. 
I.B.11. “Highest opacity reading” is that greatest stable opacity value for other than the snap/free 
acceleration procedures. 
I.B.12. “Opacity Compliance Coordinator” means designated person from each vehicle fleet to 
be the contact person between the fleet and the Division for carrying out this regulation. 
I.B.13. “Opacity Determination Certification” means a valid certification to be maintained by an 
opacity compliance coordinator and/or other fleet personnel charged with determining 
opacity levels. Opacity training and certification are to be conducted by the Division. 
I.B.14. “Opacity” means the degree to which an air pollutant obscures the view of an observer 
expressed in percentage of obscuration, or the degree, expressed in percent, to which 
transmittance of light is reduced by the air pollutant. 
I.B.15. “Opacity Inspection Form” (OIF) means the official form or electronic media issued by the 
Division to diesel self-certification fleets for recording opacity test results. 
I.B.16. “Opacity meter” means an optical instrument which is designed to measure the opacity of 
diesel exhaust. Opacity meters must meet the requirements of Part B, II.C. of this 
Regulation. Opacity meters to be utilized for the SAE J1667 test procedures (Part A, 
I.V.C.5) must meet SAE J1667 specifications. 
I.B.17. “Physically Based” means the business location, including either the origination or 
destination of a vehicle, where a vehicle is maintained or legally parked when not in use 
on the road.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
3 
I.B.18. “Principally Operated” means used to transport goods or passengers, or to operate 
mounted equipment within the program area for ninety or more cumulative days in a 12 
month period. 
I.B.19. “Rated RPM” means a specific Revolutions Per Minute (rpm) which the manufacturer 
states that the engine’s maximum/rated brake horsepower is attained. Rated horsepower 
and rpm information is usually found on a label affixed to the engine itself or other under-
the-hood location. 
I.B.20. “Routinely Operated” means operated for 90 days or more in any 12 month period. 
I.B.21. “SAE J1667 specifications” and “SAE J1667 test procedures” mean the specifications 
and test procedures set out in J1667 Recommended Practice, Snap Acceleration Smoke 
Test Procedure for Heavy-Duty Diesel Powered Motor Vehicles, © 2018 Society of 
Automotive Engineers Inc. (SAE), which document is hereby incorporated into this 
regulation by reference. The incorporation of the J1667 Recommended Practice into this 
rule by reference does not include later amendments to or editions of the material. The 
J1667 Recommended Practice may be examined at any state publications depository 
library. To find out how to obtain a copy of the J1667 Recommended Practices contact 
Manager, Mobile Source Section, Air Pollution Control Division, Colorado Department of 
Public Health and Environment, 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, Colorado 
80246-1530, or visit the Society of Automotive Engineers, Inc. website at www.sae.org. 
I.B.22.  “Terminal, Division, or Maintenance Facility” means improved real property owned, 
leased or otherwise lawfully held by a controlling commercial interest by the fleet and 
meeting applicable local zoning requirements for commercial trucking, motor coach, or 
truck/coach maintenance operations. 
I.B.23. “Trained Visual Opacity Inspector” means an employee or designee of the fleet who has 
successfully completed Opacity Inspector Training and holds a current Opacity 
Determination Certification issued by the Division. 
I.B.24. “WOT” means wide open throttle. 
I.C. 
Applicability 
I.C.1. 
Geographic Area of Applicability 
This regulation shall apply to the diesel inspection program area as defined in Section 42-4-401 
(8) C.R.S. 
I.C.2. 
Vehicles eligible for diesel fleet self-certification program. 
Heavy-duty diesel vehicles greater than fourteen thousand pounds gross vehicle weight rating, 
identified as a fleet (nine (9) or more vehicles) and registered or routinely operated in the program 
area, or principally operated from a terminal, maintenance facility, branch, or division located 
within the program area are required to participate in the diesel fleet self-certification program. 
I.D. 
Opacity Compliance Test Cycle – New Vehicle Exemption 
I.D.1. 
Opacity compliance tests conducted on heavy-duty diesel vehicles equal to or less than 
ten model years old are valid for twenty-four months. 
I.D.2. 
Opacity compliance tests conducted on heavy-duty diesel vehicles that are more than ten 
model years old are valid for twelve months.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
4 
I.D.3. 
Any new heavy-duty diesel vehicle shall be exempt from testing until such vehicle has 
reached its fourth model year, or until the date of the transfer of ownership prior to the 
expiration of such exemption, if such transfer is within twelve months before such 
exemption ends. 
I.D.4 
Any new heavy-duty diesel vehicle of model year 2014 or newer having a gross vehicle 
weight rating of twenty six thousand pounds or more is exempt from testing until such 
vehicle has reached its sixth model year, or until the date of the transfer of ownership 
prior to the expiration of such exemption, if such transfer is within twelve months before 
such exemption ends. 
I.E. 
Opacity Testing Exemption for Vehicles Certified as Physically Based and Principally Operated 
Outside the Program Area 
Heavy-duty diesel vehicles of greater than fourteen thousand pounds gross vehicle weight rating, owned 
by a fleet subject to the provisions of Part A, I.C.1. and 2.and registered or required to be registered in the 
program area that are certified by the fleet owner to be physically based and principally operated from a 
terminal, division, or maintenance facility outside the program area, are exempt from the opacity testing 
requirements of this Part A. This exemption is valid for a period of 12 months from the date the 
certification approved by the executive director of the department of revenue and may be renewed 
annually. 
A vehicle exempted from opacity testing requirements that later becomes physically based and principally 
operated within the program area must be opacity tested within 90 days of the date its exemption expires, 
or within ninety days of a change to the location at which the vehicle is physically based, whichever is 
earlier. 
II. 
Requirements to File Compliance Plan 
II.A. 
Compliance Plan Requirements and Contents 
II.A.1. Every fleet shall prepare, adopt, and submit to the Division within the time period 
hereinafter provided a complete Compliance Plan form signed by an authorized agent 
and containing a commitment to implement and maintain a program which meets the 
requirements of this regulation. 
Each participating fleet shall provide the Division with an updated/revised Compliance 
Plan and fleet vehicle inventory in electronic format on an annual basis. Such plan and 
fleet vehicle inventory shall be submitted to the Division by December 31 of each year, to 
be effective for the following calendar year. Should fleet size, location, ownership, or 
compliance coordinator change, the Division shall be notified within thirty (30) days of a 
change. 
II.A.2. Each Compliance Plan shall set forth with reasonable detail a plan which shall include 
provisions for at least the following: 
II.A.2.a.  
Dissemination of written information to all employees who maintain 
and/or operate diesel vehicles subject to these regulations, regarding Colorado 
opacity laws, penalties for non-compliance, and health and environmental 
impacts of diesel emissions, as provided by the Division. 
II.A.2.b.  
Establishment of test procedures to be used for determining and 
certifying compliance with State opacity standards as given in Part A, VII. of this 
regulation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
5 
II.A.2.c.  
Establishment of maintenance practices and schedules to be followed for 
maintaining low-smoke levels. Maintenance schedules at a minimum will follow 
manufacturer’s recommended procedures and intervals. Emissions related repair 
and maintenance records shall be created and maintained for a period of 3 years 
and include, at a minimum: vehicle identification number, date and odometer 
reading at each service, description of work performed, description and parts 
number of parts added or replaced. 
II.A.2.d.  
Performance of biennial opacity compliance tests for vehicles ten years 
old and newer, and annual opacity compliance tests for vehicles greater than ten 
years old, as described in Part A, IV. of this regulation prior to the vehicle’s 
annual registration on each vehicle subject to these regulations, repair of any 
vehicle found to be exceeding the State opacity standard (found in Part A, VII. of 
this regulation) and bring it into compliance with State opacity standards before 
being returned to service, maintaining records of such testing 
II.A.2.e.  
Establishment of an Opacity Compliance Coordinator from each fleet to 
oversee the carrying out of this regulation. 
II.A.2.f.   
Determination of vehicle smoke opacity by a Trained Visual Opacity 
Inspector employed and designated by the fleet having possession of a valid 
opacity determination certification issued by the Division. Such persons shall 
determine vehicle smoke opacity levels by either the visual method or by use of a 
continuous-reading, light extinction opacity meter. Such test shall use an opacity 
meter for vehicles that are greater than ten model years old. 
II.A.2.g.  
Participating fleets shall electronically submit a fleet vehicle information 
inventory in a format prescribed by the Division, including but not necessarily 
limited to make, model year, VIN, unit ID, and license plate type, number and 
state. 
II.A.2.h.  
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A, II.A.2.d., new heavy-duty diesel 
vehicles having a GVWR of less than twenty six thousand pounds shall be issued 
a certification of emissions compliance without inspection or testing. Such 
certification shall expire on the anniversary of the day of the issuance of such 
certification when such vehicle has reached its fourth model year or on the date 
of the transfer of ownership if such date is within twelve months before such 
certificate would expire, pursuant to Part A, I.D.4., or unless such transfer of 
ownership is a transfer from the lessor to the lessee. Prior to the expiration of 
such certification, such vehicle shall be inspected pursuant to Section IV of this 
Part A, IV. New heavy-duty diesel vehicles having a GVWR of twenty six 
thousand pounds or more shall be issued a certification of emissions compliance 
without inspection or testing. Such certification shall expire on the anniversary of 
the day of the issuance of such certification when such vehicle has reached its 
sixth model year or on the date of the transfer of ownership if such date is within 
twelve months before such certificate would expire, pursuant to Part A, I.D.5., or 
unless such transfer of ownership is a transfer from the lesser to the lessee. Prior 
to the expiration of such certification, such vehicle shall be inspected pursuant to 
Section IV of this Part A.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
6 
II.B. 
Additional requirement 
Each Opacity Compliance Coordinator shall provide to all new employees or newly reassigned 
employees who work in the maintenance or operation of diesel vehicles, the most current information 
regarding this regulation and the Fleet’s Compliance Plan within thirty (30) days of the employees’ 
commencing work. Each Opacity Compliance Coordinator shall provide updated information to all 
employees regarding this regulation within thirty (30) days of any substantial change to this regulation 
and/or the Fleet’s Compliance Plan. 
III. 
Compliance Plan Filing – Time, Approval 
III.A. 
Filing of Plans 
Fleets which meet the applicability criteria of this Regulation Number 12 are required to participate in the 
Diesel Fleet Self Certification Program, Part A of this Regulation Number 12 (DFSCP), and such fleets 
bear the responsibility of contacting and notifying the Division of their fleet status and intent to participate 
in the DFSCP. Affected fleets shall complete and submit a Compliance Plan and a vehicle inventory to 
the Division for approval within 30 days of initial contact with the Division. 
III.B. 
Approval and Disapproval 
The Division shall review and evaluate each Compliance Plan (filed with it within thirty (30) days of its 
receipt by the Division. Upon approval of a Compliance Plan, the Division shall return an approved copy 
of the plan to the Fleet who shall post the plan in a conspicuous place in the business location. If a 
Compliance Plan as filed is disapproved by the Division, the Division shall issue a letter of disapproval, 
and the Fleet shall have thirty (30) days within which to revise the plan and resubmit it to the Division. The 
Division shall have thirty (30) days to approve or disapprove the resubmitted plan. 
III.C. 
Heavy-duty diesel-fueled motor vehicles owned by the United States government, State of 
Colorado, and local governments within the Program area, subject to the provisions of Part A of 
this regulation shall be inspected once every other year, (for vehicles ten years old, and newer), 
or every year (for vehicles greater than ten years old), and shall comply with the inspection 
provisions and obtain a Certification of Emissions Control. Inspection results will be reported to 
the Department of Revenue by submission of the Certification of Emissions Control not later than 
December 31, of each year. 
IV. 
Heavy-duty Diesel Vehicle Self-Certification Emissions Test Procedures 
IV.A. 
Opacity Evaluation Methods 
Fleets shall utilize one of the following two methods of evaluating smoke opacity. 
IV.A.1. A visual evaluation by means of a smoke observer trained and certified by the Colorado 
Department of Public Health and Environment. The observer is to be positioned in a 
location perpendicular to the exhaust plume and at a distance which will provide a clear 
view of the exhaust plume. Visual observation shall not be used on any vehicle that is 
older than ten model years. 
IV.A.2. Opacity meter evaluation of the exhaust stream by means of a portable light extinction 
opacity meter as specified in Part B, II.C.1. of this regulation. The meter is to be attached 
to the exhaust piping and calibrated as specified by the manufacturer. Opacity meters to 
be utilized for the Snap acceleration J1667 test procedures (Part A, IV.C.5.) must meet 
SAE J1667 specifications.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
7 
IV. B. 
Test Site and Vehicle Parameters 
IV.B.1. On-Road test procedures will require a testing site approximately 300 yards in length that 
is suitable for vehicle full-power runs to be conducted in complete safety. 
IV.B.2. An ambient temperature between 35°F and 110° (1.7°C-43°C) is required during any 
given vehicle test. 
IV.B.3. Vehicles scheduled for opacity testing shall be in safe operating condition. 
IV.B.4. Vehicles shall be at normal operating temperatures. 
IV.B.5. If the vehicle to be tested is equipped with multiple exhaust outlets and if it is determined 
that they emit different exhaust smoke levels, the outlet emitting the heavier smoke level 
shall be opacity evaluated. 
IV.B.6. Vehicles undergoing opacity testing are to use fuel obtained from the fleet’s normal fuel 
supply. No special fuels, fuel additives, or devices are to be utilized for the sole purpose 
of obtaining opacity readings during testing that are lower than those typically observed 
when the vehicle is operating on the fleet’s usual fuel supply. 
IV.C. 
Self-Certification Program Opacity Test Procedures 
Fleets shall inspect their vehicles for compliance with opacity standards as defined in Part A, VII.by 
utilizing one of the following test procedures, Part A, IV.C.1. through 5. Fleets that utilize the SAE J1667 
test procedures in Part A, IV.C.5. shall use such procedures on all its vehicles. 
IV.C.1. On- Road acceleration Test Procedure 
IV.C.1.a. 
Select a gear which will permit the vehicle to accelerate under wide open 
throttle (WOT) from a moving position (approximately 900 to 1000 engine rpm) 
up to maximum engine rpm in no less than seven (7) seconds. This step is vital 
in order to ensure that the engine will be operated in an rpm range and timeframe 
which will allow sufficient time and engine loading in order to accurately monitor 
the vehicle’s smoke opacity levels. Upon completing the gear selection, bring the 
vehicle to a stop. 
IV.C.1.b. 
If an opacity meter is being utilized, shut down the engine and verify the 
zero setting of the opacity meter. Clean the monitoring unit as necessary. 
IV.C.1.c. 
Restart engine and with the transmission in the selected gear as 
described in Step 1.a., accelerate the vehicle under WOT from a road speed 
equivalent of 900 to 1000 engine rpm up to maximum engine rpm. If a visual 
opacity observation is being used, alert the certified observer by means of a horn 
or other communication that the test is completed and to record on the opacity 
inspection worksheet the highest opacity which was observed in an engine rpm 
range which encompasses 70% of rated rpm up to maximum governed rpm. If an 
opacity meter was utilized, note and record the highest opacity reading displayed 
during the aforementioned rpm range.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
8 
IV.C.1.d. 
Bring the vehicle to a safe controlled stop and shutdown the engine. 
Examine opacity meter reading, if applicable, and if there is more than a five 
percent (5%) shift (deviation) in the zero position and the highest opacity reading 
observed during the test exceeds the standard as defined in Part A, VII., clean 
the meter lenses, zero the meter and repeat the procedure beginning at Step 1.c. 
IV.C.1.e. 
If the highest opacity observed during Step 1.c. exceeds the opacity 
standard and the opacity meter zero shift, if applicable, is less than five percent 
(5%), the vehicle fails the inspection. 
IV.C.1.f.  
If neither the highest opacity observed during Step 1.c. nor the opacity 
meter zero shift, if applicable, exceeds the opacity standard, the vehicle passes 
the inspection. 
IV.C.1.g. 
The opacity inspector shall then record the highest opacity reading, the 
opacity meter zero shift (if applicable), the pass/fail determination and provide a 
signature on the Opacity Inspection Form. Vehicles which comply with the 
inspection procedures and applicable opacity standards shall be issued a 
complete CEC. 
IV.C.2. On-Road Brake Lugdown Test Procedure 
IV.C.2.a. 
Select a gear which will permit the vehicle to attain a road speed of 15 to 
25 mph with the engine at maximum rpm, wide open throttle (WOT). Due to the 
many variables, this gear selection is basically a trial and error effort. Upon 
completing the gear selection, bring the vehicle to a stop. 
IV.C.2.b. 
If an opacity meter is being utilized, shutdown the engine and verify the 
zero setting of the opacity meter. Clean the monitoring unit as necessary. 
IV.C.2.c. 
Restart engine and with the vehicle operating at WOT in the selected 
gear as described in Step 2.a., maintain WOT and slowly begin loading the 
engine by means of the vehicle’s service brakes. The loading is to be applied 
linearly throughout an engine rpm range which extends from maximum engine 
rpm down to seventy percent (70%) of the engine’s rated rpm in a time span 
which encompasses no less than seven (7) seconds. 
IV.C.2.d. 
Momentarily maintain the seventy percent (70%) rated rpm/WOT 
relationship and if a visual opacity observation is being used, alert the certified 
observer by means of a horn or other communication that the test is completed 
and to record on the opacity inspection worksheet the highest opacity which was 
observed during the brake lugdown procedure. If an opacity meter was utilized, 
note and record the highest opacity reading displayed during the brake lugdown 
procedure. 
IV.C.2.e. 
Bring the vehicle to a safe controlled stop and shutdown the engine. 
Examine opacity meter reading, if applicable, and if there is more than a five 
percent (5%) shift (deviation) in the zero position, and the highest opacity reading 
observed during the test exceeds the standard as defined in Part A, VII., clean 
the meter lenses, zero the meter, and repeat the procedure beginning at Step 2. 
c. 
IV.C.2.f. 
If the highest opacity observed during Step 2.c. exceeds the opacity 
standard and the opacity meter zero shift, if applicable, is less than five percent 
(5%), the vehicle fails the inspection.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
9 
IV.C.2.g. 
If neither the highest opacity observed during Step 2.c. nor the opacity 
meter zero shift, if applicable, exceeds the opacity standard, the vehicle passes 
the inspection. 
IV.C.2.h. 
The opacity inspector shall then record the highest opacity reading, the 
opacity meter zero shift (if applicable). Vehicles which comply with the inspection 
procedures and applicable opacity standards shall be issued a complete CEC. 
IV.C.3. Stall Test Procedure (Vehicles with Automatic Transmissions) 
This is a full-load stationary test designed for vehicles equipped with automatic transmissions. 
IV.C.3.a. 
Transmission/torque converter oil is to be at normal operating 
temperature (160 to 200º F). 
IV.C.3.b. 
If an opacity meter is being utilized, verify the zero setting of the opacity 
meter. Clean the monitoring unit if necessary. 
IV.C.3.c. 
Start engine and operate at idle rpm. Apply the vehicle’s parking brake 
and securely block the vehicle. Apply the service brakes and shift the 
transmission gear selector to a forward range. 
IV.C.3.d. 
Accelerate the engine by means of wide open throttle (WOT) until the 
transmission’s stall speed rpm is attained. Maintain stall speed rpm for 
approximately five seconds in order to allow for stabilization. 
IV.C.3.e. 
Momentarily maintain stall speed rpm and if a visual opacity observation 
is being used, alert the certified observer by means of a horn or other 
communication that the test is completed and to record on the opacity inspection 
worksheet the opacity attained at this time (stall speed rpm). If an opacity meter 
is utilized, note and record the opacity meter reading at this time (stall speed 
rpm). 
IV.C.3.f.  
Return the engine to idle rpm and shut down the engine. 
Examine opacity meter reading, if applicable, and if there is more than a five percent 
(5%) shift (deviation) in the zero position, and the highest opacity reading observed 
during the test exceeds the standard as stated in Part A, VII,, clean the meter lenses, 
zero the meter and repeat the procedure beginning at Step 3.c. Allow approximately two 
minutes of neutral operation between stall tests in order to prevent overheating of the 
transmission. During the two-minute period, maintain 1000 to 1400 engine rpm. 
IV.C.3.g. 
If the highest opacity observed during Step 2.e. exceeds the opacity 
standard and the opacity meter zero shift, if applicable, is less than five percent 
(5%), the vehicle fails the inspection. 
IV.C.3.h. 
If neither the highest opacity observed during Step 2.e. nor the opacity 
meter zero shift, if applicable, exceeds the opacity standard, the vehicle passes 
the inspection. 
IV.C.3.i. 
The opacity inspector shall then record the highest opacity reading, the 
opacity meter zero shift (if applicable). Vehicles which comply with the inspection 
procedures and applicable opacity standards shall be issued a complete CEC.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
10 
IV.C.4. Dynamometer Test Procedure 
IV.C.4.a. 
If a smoke opacity meter is being used, verify the meter is set at zero. 
Start engine and with the dynamometer in an unloaded mode/condition, select a 
gear which will allow the vehicle to attain and maintain a no-load vehicle speed of 
60 to 70 miles per hour (mph) at wide open throttle (WOT). It is preferred and 
recommended that vehicles be operated at the lower end of this mph range 
whenever possible. If the vehicle has a maximum road speed that is less than 60 
mph, operate the vehicle at the highest mph possible. Upon stabilization, 
maintain speed for ten (plus or minus four) seconds and record engine rpm and 
mph on the opacity worksheet. 
IV.C.4.b. 
While maintaining wide open throttle (WOT), slowly increase the 
dynamometer loading until the engine rated rpm (plus or minus 15 rpm) is 
obtained. Maintain this speed/load for ten (plus or minus four) seconds and 
record engine rpm, smoke opacity, and horsepower (hp). 
IV.C.4.c. 
Maintain wide open throttle (WOT) and slowly increase dynamometer 
loading until the engine is at 90 percent of rated rpm (plus or minus 15 rpm). 
Maintain this speed/load for ten (plus or minus four) seconds and record engine 
rpm, smoke opacity, and hp. 
IV.C.4.d. 
Maintain wide open throttle (WOT) and slowly increase dynamometer 
loading until engine is at 80 percent of rated rpm (plus or minus 15 rpm). 
Maintain this speed/load for at least ten (plus or minus four) seconds and record 
engine rpm, smoke opacity, and hp. 
IV.C.4.e. 
Maintain wide open throttle and slowly increase dynamometer loading 
until engine is at 70 percent of rated rpm (plus or minus 15 rpm). Maintain this 
speed/load for ten (plus or minus four) seconds and record engine rpm, smoke 
opacity, and hp. This step concludes the engine loading procedure; do not apply 
additional loading under any circumstances. 
IV.C.4.f. 
Reserved 
IV.C.4.g. 
Remove dynamometer loading and shut down engine after observing 
engine cool down procedure. 
IV.C.4.h. 
Examine opacity meter reading, if applicable, and if there is more than a 
five percent (5%) shift (deviation) in the zero position and the highest opacity 
reading observed during the test exceeds the standard as defined in Part A, VIII., 
clean the meter lenses, zero the meter and repeat the procedure beginning at 
Step 4.a. 
IV.C.4.i.  
If the highest opacity observed during Steps 4.b. through 4.e. exceeds 
the opacity standard and the opacity meter zero shift, if applicable, is less than 
five percent (5%), the vehicle fails the inspection. 
IV.C.4.j.  
If neither the highest opacity observed during Step 4.b. through 4.e. nor 
the opacity meter zero shift, if applicable, exceeds the opacity standard, the 
vehicle passes the inspection. 
IV.C.4.k. 
The opacity inspector shall then record the highest opacity reading, the 
opacity meter zero shift (if applicable). Vehicles which comply with the inspection 
procedures and applicable opacity standards shall be issued a complete CEC.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
11 
IV.C.5. SAE J1667 Test Procedures. 
If the SAE J1667 test procedures are used, the inspector shall comply with the procedures and 
specifications set out in SAE J1667 Recommended Practice, Snap Acceleration Smoke Test 
Procedure for Heavy-Duty Diesel Powered Motor Vehicles, © 1996 Society of Automotive 
Engineers Inc. (SAE), which document is incorporated herein by reference as provided in Part A, 
I.B.16. 
The opacity inspector shall then record the average opacity reading, the pass/fail determination 
and sign the Opacity Inspection Form. Vehicles which comply with the inspection procedures and 
applicable opacity standards shall be issued a completed CEC. 
IV.D. 
General Inspection Requirements 
IV.D.1. All aspects of the inspection must be performed by a Trained Visual Opacity Inspector or 
a Fleet Emissions inspector. It is the responsibility of the inspector to notify the Division of 
his/her current place of employment. 
IV.D.2. The inspection shall take place at the address of the fleet testing location. 
IV.D.3. The temperature of the inspection area (or ambient temperature for on-road tests) shall 
be between 35°F and 110°F (2°C and 43°C) during the inspection. The inspection must 
be conducted in a well-ventilated location. 
IV.D.4. For 1991 and later model year diesel vehicles, the inspector shall perform an inspection 
for the integrity of the emissions control systems and/or devices as listed on the vehicle’s 
emissions control label or in an emissions control systems application guide. The 
following system/devices if original equipment manufacturer supplied must be installed, 
intact and apparently operational: 
IV.D.4.a. 
Fuel control systems, utilized to control the air/fuel ratio, including 
microprocessor/electronic control systems, mechanical systems, hydraulic 
systems or pneumatic systems, any fuel injection pump seals and covers. 
IV.D.4.b. 
Exhaust after-treatment device systems. Any after-market catalytic 
converter on a vehicle must be Federally Compliant (in accord with 40 C.F.R. 
Part 85, Subpart V, January 24, 2023) for the specific application. 
IV.D.4.c. 
Engine computer controls, related sensors, actuators, malfunction 
indicator, or service maintenance reminder lights. Engine computer control 
hardware and software must meet the requirements in EPA Tampering Policy 
Memorandum November 23, 2020: The EPA Enforcement Policy on Vehicle and 
Engine Tampering and after-market defeat devices under the Clean Air Act. 
After-market emissions control components must be engineered and built to fit 
the specific vehicle application. 
IV.D.4.d. 
Positive crankcase ventilation must be maintained as a closed system. 
Other systems (crankcase depression and air box drain equipment) must be 
maintained as designed. 
IV.D.4.e. 
The exhaust gas recirculation valve and related coolers, piping and 
control systems. 
IV.D.4.f. 
Emissions system related hoses, connectors, brackets, and hardware.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
12 
IV.D.4.g. 
Any other emissions-related components for a particular vehicle/engine 
as listed on a vehicle evaluation form (DR2365) issued by Emissions Technical 
Center staff. 
IV.D.4.h. 
The vehicle shall fail the inspection if the emission control components 
are found to be tampered, defective, or otherwise rendered partially or 
completely inoperative. When determining original equipment emissions control 
systems/devices, the vehicle’s under-the-hood emissions control label takes 
precedence over any other sources of information. 
IV.D.4.i. 
Any after-market replacement devices and software must meet the 
requirements in EPA Tampering Policy Memorandum November 23, 2020: The 
EPA Enforcement Policy on Vehicle and Engine Tampering and after-market 
defeat devices under the Clean Air Act. After-market emissions control 
components must be engineered and built to fit the specific vehicle application. 
IV.D.4.j. 
It is the vehicle owner’s responsibility to prove the acceptability of after-
market devices/software, by producing the device/software manufacturer’s 
statement warranting against adversely affecting emissions performance and the 
applicability of that device/software for the specific vehicle application. In the 
case where the manufacturer’s certification is called to question or is missing, the 
Division may determine the acceptability of an after-market device/software. 
IV.E. 
Vehicles with Non-Original Engines (Engine Changes) 
IV.E.1. If the original engine of the vehicle has been replaced the fleet shall not issue a CEC and 
shall refer the vehicle to the Division’s Emission Technical Center for an evaluation of 
whether the engine configuration will adversely affect the emissions performance of the 
vehicle or violate ant-tampering statutes. 
IV.E.2. Pursuant to § 42-4-307, C.R.S, a replacement engine or powertrain, and the required 
emissions control equipment, computer management systems and vehicle test types will 
be determined by the Division’s Emissions Technical Center personnel based upon the 
vehicle certified engine test group and compliance with tampering statutes §42-4-314 and 
§ 25-7-144, C.R.S.. An affidavit (Vehicle Evaluation Form DR 2365), shall be issued by 
the Emissions Technical Center personnel specifying the year of the engine and 
associated emissions control system requirements. 
IV.E.3. For those 1991 and newer vehicles in which the original engine type has been changed, 
the emissions limits and applicable emissions control equipment for the certification level 
of the new engine test group package will be determined by Emissions Technical Center 
personnel. Only an equal or tighter certification test group can be installed. An affidavit 
(Vehicle Evaluation Form DR 2365), shall be issued by the Emissions Technical Center 
personnel specifying the year of the engine and associated emissions control system 
requirements. 
IV.E.4. For those vehicles which have been converted to operate on fuel(s) other than the 
original fuel type; the applicable emissions control equipment for the test group of the 
new fuel type powered engine equivalent as originally manufactured, for the vehicle 
body/chassis, per the registration or replacement engine configuration, will be determined 
by emissions technical center personnel. An affidavit (Vehicle Evaluation Form DR 2365), 
shall be issued by the Emissions Technical Center personnel specifying the year of the 
engine and associated emissions control system requirements.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
13 
IV.F. 
The Division has the authority to determine the applicability of this regulation for unique testing 
situations not specifically addressed in this regulation. 
V. 
Determination of Compliance 
V.A. 
On-Site Fleet Inspection 
The Division shall have the authority to determine a Fleet’s compliance with this regulation or the Fleet’s 
Compliance Plan by personal inspection of a Fleet’s Business Location. The Division shall notify each 
inspected fleet of any violations of this regulation or the Fleet’s Compliance Plan immediately upon 
completion of the inspections and shall be supplied with a written report of the results of the inspection 
within thirty (30) days of the inspection date. Such inspections by the Division may not be made more 
frequently than twice in any twelve (12) month period unless complaints of violation of this regulation have 
been received by the Division or the Division otherwise has cause to believe that the Fleet is not in 
compliance with the requirements of this regulation or the Fleet’s Compliance Plan. 
Such inspections may be made by the Division only during the normal working hours of a Fleet. The time 
of inspection will be determined by the Division, but must be at times reasonably convenient to the fleet. 
Individual vehicles of the fleet requested by the Division should be available at the time of inspection, as 
reasonably convenient to the fleet operators, with advance notice by the Division of such inspection. 
V.B. 
Record Keeping Requirements 
Opacity test results from the annual inspections shall be kept by the Fleets using standardized electronic 
forms developed and provided by the Division. The opacity test results shall be available to the Division 
for inspections as described in Part A, V.A. and the electronic forms containing the test data shall be 
submitted to the Division annually via e-mail by December 31 of each year. Emissions related repair and 
maintenance records shall be created and maintained for a period of three years and include, at a 
minimum: vehicle identification number, date at odometer reading at each service, description of work 
performed, part numbers and a description of parts added or replaced. 
V.C.  
Testing Exemption Certification Records 
Certification made by the fleet owner and approved by the Executive Director of the Department of 
Revenue that a vehicle is physically based and principally operated from a terminal, division, or 
maintenance facility outside the program area as described in Part A, I.E. shall be kept by the Fleet 
Compliance Coordinator and shall be made immediately available to the Division at inspections as 
described in Part A, V.A. 
VI. 
Penalties for Non-Compliance 
VI.A. 
Two or more excessive violations within a 12 month period, as defined in Part A, I.B.7. of this 
regulation shall result in the fleet being required to participate in the diesel opacity inspection 
program (Regulation Number 12, Part B) for a minimum of one year commencing at the 
beginning of the next calendar year. 
VI.B. 
Excessive violations shall be reported to the Executive Director of the Department of Revenue for 
enforcement action at the Executive Director’s discretion and authority, which may include a hold 
to be placed on the violating vehicle’s registration. If such hold is issued, the Fleet shall make a 
demonstration of compliance to the Division. The Division shall report to the Executive Director of 
the Department of Revenue that compliance has been demonstrated.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
14 
VII. 
Opacity Standards for Diesel-Powered Motor Vehicles Subject to Part A of This Regulation. 
Diesel vehicles subject to this Part A shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) opacity measured over 5 
seconds. 
VIII. 
Training, Testing, Qualification, and Requalification Requirements for Opacity Compliance 
Coordinators, Fleet Emissions Inspectors, and Trained Visual Opacity Inspectors 
VIII.A. Certificates of Qualification 
VIII.A.1. 
All Opacity Compliance Coordinators, Fleet Emissions Inspectors and Trained 
Visual Opacity Inspectors shall obtain and maintain a Certificate of Qualification issued 
by the Division in accordance with this section. 
VIII.A.2. 
Applications for Certificates of Qualification shall be completed on forms provided 
by the Division and filed with the Air Pollution Control Division, Colorado Department of 
Public Health and Environment 2450 West Second Avenue, Denver CO 80223. 
VIII.A.3. 
Upon an applicant’s successful completion of the training and testing 
requirements set forth in Section VIII.B., the Division shall issue a Certificate of 
Qualification. 
VIII.A.4. 
Certificates of Qualification are valid for a period of two years. Opacity 
Compliance Coordinators, Fleet Emissions Inspectors and Trained Visual Opacity 
Inspectors can renew their Certificates of Qualification by successfully completing the 
training and testing requirements set forth in Section VIII.B. The Division may waive the 
training requirements for renewal certificates where the training curriculum has not 
substantially changed since the applicant last completed the training, but only in 
instances where the applicant passes the required test on the first attempt. 
VIII.B. Training and Testing Requirements 
VIII.B.1. 
The Division shall develop a training program for Opacity Compliance 
Coordinators, Fleet Emissions Inspectors, and Trained Visual Opacity Inspectors. The 
training program shall be comprehensive in nature and address all aspects of diesel 
vehicle inspection procedures. Opacity Compliance Coordinators, Fleet Emissions 
Inspectors, and Trained Visual Opacity Inspectors must complete this training in order to 
receive a Certificate of Qualification. 
VIII.B.2. 
To obtain a Certificate of Qualification, Opacity Compliance Coordinators, Fleet 
Emissions Inspectors, and Trained Visual Opacity Inspectors must pass a Division 
administered qualification test to demonstrate knowledge, skill, and competence 
concerning the conduct of diesel fleet self-certification inspections. The test shall cover 
information provided in the training program including, but not limited to: 
VIII.B.2.a. 
Knowledge of the regulations governing the Diesel Fleet Self-
Certification Program. 
VIII.B.2.b. 
Visual inspection procedures of the required emissions control 
equipment for 1991 and newer vehicles. 
VIII.B.2.c. 
Operation and proper use, care, maintenance and calibration of the 
Commission approved opacity meters, chassis dynamometers, photo 
tachometers and strip chart recorders.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
15 
VIII.B.2.d. 
Proper use and distribution of Diesel Vehicle Inspection Report forms 
Certificates of Emissions Control, opacity worksheets and supplemental 
documents. 
PART B 
DIESEL OPACITY INSPECTION PROGRAM 
I. 
General Provisions 
I.A. 
Statement of Purpose 
The purpose of Part B of this regulation is to reduce air pollution resulting from emissions from diesel 
powered motor vehicles, as defined in Part B of this regulation, registered or required to be registered, 
routinely operated in the program area, or principally operated from a terminal, maintenance facility, 
branch, or division located within the Program area, and not subject to Part A of this regulation. 
I.B. 
Definitions 
I.B.1. 
“AIR Account” is a special fund set aside in the Highway Users Tax Fund for the 
operation of the “AIR Program” and the “Diesel Opacity Inspection Program”. 
I.B.2. 
“Air Environmental Systems Technician” mean those persons employed by the 
Department of Revenue for licensing and enforcement of the AIR Program and the Diesel 
Opacity Inspection Program. 
I.B.3. 
“AIR Program” is the Automobile Inspection and Readjustment (AIR) Program 
established pursuant to Sections 42-4-301 to 42-4-316.5 C.R.S. as amended. 
I.B.4. 
“AQCC” means Air Quality Control Commission. 
I.B.5. 
“Basic Engine Systems” are those parts or assemblies which provide for the efficient 
conversion of diesel fuel into useful power to include, but not limited to valve train 
mechanisms, cylinder heads, block, piston-ring-cylinder sealing integrity and post-
combustion emissions control devices. 
I.B.6. 
“Certificate of Qualification” means official certificate issued by the Division to candidates 
who have successfully completed the Division-provided qualification/requalification 
training and passed the qualification test. This Certification is required in order to become 
licensed as a diesel opacity inspector in the Diesel Opacity Inspection Program. 
I.B.7.  “Certification of Diesel Smoke Opacity Compliance” is the document which indicates that 
the smoke emissions from the vehicle comply with applicable smoke opacity limits and 
the emissions control systems are installed, intact and apparently operational at the time 
of inspection or after needed adjustments or repairs and re-inspection. 
I.B.8. 
“Certification of Diesel Smoke Opacity Waiver” is the document issued by the Department 
of Revenue, which indicates that the smoke emissions from the vehicle do not comply 
with the applicable smoke opacity limits after inspection, adjustment and smoke-related 
repairs. 
I.B.9.  “Certification” or “Certification of Emissions Control” means either a “Certification of 
Diesel Smoke Opacity Compliance” or “Certification of Diesel Smoke Opacity Waiver” 
issued to the owner of a diesel vehicle which is subject to the diesel emissions inspection 
program in order to indicate the status of inspection requirement compliance of such a 
vehicle.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
16 
I.B.10. “Certification of Emissions Exemption” means the official document issued by the 
Department of Revenue, in lieu of the Certification of Emissions Control. 
I.B.11. “Certified Neutral Density Filter” means an optical quality filter which reduces the amount 
of transmitted light, an amount which is dependent upon the filter’s optical density rating, 
uniformly across the visible light spectrum, for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of 
the opacity meters. 
I.B.12. “Certified Thermometer” means a laboratory grade ambient temperature measuring 
device with a range of at least 20°F through 120°F and an attested accuracy of at least 
plus or minus 1°F with increments of 1°, with protective shielding, and approved by the 
Department. 
I.B.13.  “Chassis Dynamometer” means a vehicle power absorption device which has the ability 
to approximate or simulate actual on-road operation of motor vehicles through the 
application of variable loading. 
I.B.14. “Commission” means Colorado Air Quality Control Commission. 
I.B.15. “Department” means Department of Revenue. 
I.B.16. “Diesel Opacity Inspection” means an inspection of a diesel powered vehicle performed 
by a licensed inspector, employed by a licensed station, pursuant to 42-4-406 C.R.S. , 
using the procedures and provisions set forth in Part B of Regulation Number 12 and 
Department rules. 
I.B.17. “Diesel Opacity Inspection Program” means the opacity inspection program for diesel 
powered vehicles established by 42-4-401 to 42-4-412 C.R.S., as amended and 
Regulation Number 12, Part B. 
I.B.18. “Diesel Opacity Inspection Program Station” is a station that qualifies and is licensed to 
operate as an emissions inspection station for light or heavy-duty diesel vehicles, or both 
in accordance with requirements set forth in 42-4-407 C.R.S., as amended, AQCC 
Regulation Number 12, Part B, and Department of Revenue Rules at 1 CCR 204-1 
required under 42-4-405 C.R.S. 
I.B.19. “Diesel Opacity Inspector” means an individual licensed to perform opacity inspections on 
vehicles required under 42-4-406 C.R.S. who is employed at a licensed diesel opacity 
inspection station and is trained and qualified in accordance with AQCC Regulation 
Number 12, Part B and the Department of Revenue. 
I.B.20. “Diesel Powered Motor Vehicle” or “Diesel Vehicle” as applicable to opacity inspections, 
includes only a motor vehicle with four wheels or more on the ground, powered by an 
internal combustion, compression ignition, diesel fueled engine, and also includes any 
motor vehicle having a personal property classification of A, B, or C pursuant to Section 
42-3-106, C.R.S., as specified on its vehicle registration, and for which registration in this 
state is required for operation on the public roads and highways. “Diesel Vehicle” does 
not include the following: vehicles registered pursuant to 42-12-301, or 42-3-306 (4) 
C.R.S., or off-the-road diesel powered vehicles or heavy construction equipment. 
I.B.21. “Diesel Vehicle Inspection Report (DVIR)” means an official form and media issued by 
the Colorado Department of Revenue to licensed diesel opacity inspection stations, 
which contains Certification of Emissions Control record information.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
17 
I.B.22. “Division” is the Air Pollution Control Division of the Colorado Department of Public 
Health and Environment. 
I.B.23. “Emissions Control Systems” are those parts, assemblies or systems originally installed 
by the manufacturer in or on a vehicle for the specific purpose of reducing emissions. 
I.B.24. “Engine Rated RPM” means a specific Revolutions Per Minute (rpm) at which the 
manufacturer states that the engine’s maximum/rated brake horsepower is attained. 
Above this rpm, the engine’s governor will typically begin limiting full load fuel quantity 
and thus prevent the engine from developing full power beyond this rpm. Rated engine 
power and speed information is usually found on a label affixed to the engine itself or 
other under-the-hood location. 
I.B.25. “Exhaust Aftertreatment” means any post combustion emissions control system that 
reduces emissions by chemical, catalytic, or mechanical action, and may include diesel 
oxidation catalysts, diesel particulate filters, lean NOx traps, selective catalytic reduction, 
or other technologies. Exhaust aftertreatment also includes the piping, wiring, sensors, 
diesel emissions fluid, control systems, and software as installed by the vehicle/engine 
manufacturer. 
I.B.26. “GVWR” (gross vehicle weight rating) means the weight specified by the vehicle 
manufacturer as the maximum allowable loaded weight (vehicle empty weight plus the 
driver, passengers and payload) of a single vehicle. 
I.B.27. “Heavy-duty Diesel Vehicle” as applicable to the Diesel Opacity Inspection Program 
refers to diesel vehicles of greater than fourteen thousand pounds GVWR. 
I.B.28. “Heavy-duty Diesel Opacity Inspection Station” means a facility licensed to insect heavy-
duty diesel vehicles only. 
I.B.29. “Heavy-duty Dynamometer” means a chassis dynamometer meeting the requirements for 
accurately and safely testing heavy-duty vehicles. 
I.B.30. “Highest Opacity Reading” is that greatest stable opacity value for other than the 
snap/free acceleration procedure. 
I.B.31. “ISO” means International Standards Organization. 
I.B.32. “Light-duty Diesel Opacity Inspection Station” means a facility licensed to inspect light-
duty diesel vehicles only (fourteen thousand pounds GVWR and less). 
I.B.33. “Light-duty Diesel Vehicle” as applicable to the Diesel Opacity Inspection Program refers 
to diesel vehicles of fourteen thousand pounds and less GVWR. 
I.B.34. “Light-duty Dynamometer” means a chassis dynamometer meeting the requirements for 
testing light-duty vehicles. These dynamometers may have a limited heavy-duty 
capability. 
I.B.35. “Maximum No-Load RPM or HIGH Idle RPM” means the maximum rpm that the engine’s 
governor will allow the engine to attain under no-load, wide open throttle (WOT) 
conditions. 
I.B.36. “MPH” means miles per hour. 
I.B.37. Reserved

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
18 
I.B.38. “Opacity” means the degree to which an air pollutant obscures the view of an observer 
expressed in percentage of obscuration, or the degree, expressed in percent, to which 
transmittance of light is reduced by the air pollutant. 
I.B.39. “Opacity Meter” means an optical instrument which is designed to measure the opacity of 
diesel exhaust. 
I.B.40. “Opacity Meter Calibration Form” means the official electronic record for recording weekly 
opacity meter calibration procedures, to be maintained on the inspection station’s 
computer. 
I.B.41. “Opacity Testing” means the testing of motor vehicles using procedures prescribed in this 
regulation in order to determine the magnitude (expressed as a percentage) of obscured 
light (opacity) due to exhaust constituents, mainly fine particles. 
I.B.42. “Opacity Worksheet” means worksheet provided by the Division for recording measured 
opacity levels during dynamometer testing for determining opacity compliance, to be 
maintained in a file at the station for auditing purposes. 
I.B.43. “Photo tachometer” means a non-contact rotational speed measuring instrument which 
processes data received from a reflected light beam and remotely displays the results as 
revolutions per minute (rpm). 
I.B.44. “RPM” means revolutions per minute as pertaining to engine crankshaft speed. 
I.B.45. “Routinely Operated” or “Principally Operated” means operated for 90 days or more in 
any 12 month period. 
I.B.46. “SAE” means Society of Automotive Engineers. 
I.B.47. “State Emissions Technical Centers” are those facilities, operated by the Department of 
Public Health and Environment for technical or administrative support of the AIR Program 
and the Diesel Opacity Inspection Program. 
I.B.48. “Stripchart Recorder or Digital Recording Device” means an instrument which receives 
and records data from one or more electrical inputs and displays that information in the 
form of real-time, continuous (non-impact) tracings on paper, or stores and displays that 
information electronically. 
I.B.49. “Training Program” means instruction developed by the Division for training diesel opacity 
inspectors. Successful completion of qualification and requalification training is a 
prerequisite to taking the inspector qualification test and receiving a Certificate of 
Qualification. 
I.B.50. “WOT” means wide open throttle. 
I.C. 
Applicability 
I.C.1. 
Geographic Area of Applicability 
This regulation shall apply to the diesel inspection Program area as defined in Section 42-4-401 
(8) C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
19 
I.C.2. 
Vehicles Eligible for Diesel Opacity Inspection Program 
Part B of this regulation shall apply to all diesel-fueled motor vehicles as defined in Section 42-4-
401 (5) C.R.S., except those diesel-powered vehicles subject to the provisions for Part A of this 
regulation (Diesel Fleet Self-Certification Program), pursuant to Section 42-4-414, C.R.S. 
I.C.2.a. The burden of proof in establishing an exemption from all or any part of the diesel 
opacity inspection requirements is on the vehicle owner. Any applications for 
exemptions must be submitted to the Colorado Department of Revenue for 
approval. 
I.D. 
Conditions for Issuance of Certification of Emissions Control 
I.D.1. 
A diesel vehicle which is registered or required to be registered in the program area, 
routinely operates in the program area or is principally operated from a terminal, 
maintenance facility, branch or division located within the program area shall not be sold, 
registered for the first time in the program area or reregistered, unless such vehicle has a 
Certification of Emissions Control. 
I.D.2. 
For new diesel motor vehicles being registered for the first time, a Certification of 
Emissions Control shall be issued without testing for diesel opacity compliance. Prior to 
the expiration of such certification, such vehicle shall be inspected and a Certification of 
Emissions Control shall be obtained for diesel smoke opacity compliance. 
I.D.2.a. For light-duty diesel vehicles, such certificate shall expire on the earliest of: 
I.D.2.a.i. 
The anniversary of the day of the issuance of such certification 
when such vehicle has reached its fourth model year. 
I.D.2.a.ii. 
The date of the transfer of ownership if such date is within twelve 
months before such certification would expire, pursuant to Part B, 
I.D.2.a.i., unless such transfer of ownership is a transfer from the lessor 
to the lessee. 
I.D.2.b. For heavy-duty vehicles, such certification shall expire on the earliest of: 
I.D.2.b.i. 
The anniversary of the day of the issuance of such certification 
when such vehicle has reached its fourth model year, or 
I.D.2.b.ii. 
The date of the transfer of ownership if such date is within twelve 
months before such certification would expire, pursuant to Part B, 
I.D.2.a.i. unless such transfer of ownership is a transfer from the lessor 
to the lessee. 
I.D.2.b.iii 
Any new heavy-duty diesel vehicle having a GVWR of twenty six 
thousand pounds or greater is exempt from testing until such vehicle has 
reached its sixth model year, or until the date of the transfer of ownership 
prior to the expiration of such exemption, if such transfer is within twelve 
months before such exemption ends. 
I.D.2.c. For heavy-duty diesel vehicles ten model years old and newer, the Certificate of 
Emissions Control will be valid for two years from the date of issuance. 
I.D.2.d. For light-duty diesel vehicles ten model years old and newer, the Certificate of 
Emissions Control will be valid for two years from the date of issuance.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
20 
I.D.2.e. For heavy-duty diesel vehicles greater than ten model years old, the Certificate of 
Emissions Control will be valid for one year from the date of issuance. 
I.D.2.f. For light-duty diesel vehicles greater than ten model years old, the Certificate of 
Emissions Control will be valid for one year from the date of issuance. 
I.D.3. 
For used diesel vehicle retail sales transactions by a licensed dealer conducted within the 
Program area, a Certification of Diesel Smoke Opacity Compliance will be required at the 
time of sale. The responsibility of complying with the inspection provisions is that of the 
selling dealer. 
I.D.4. 
A “Certification of Diesel Smoke Opacity Compliance” shall be issued by a licensed diesel 
inspection station to any diesel vehicle which has been inspected and tested according to 
the procedures in Part B, III. of this regulation and found to be within applicable smoke 
opacity limits and equipment requirements as stated in Part B, IV. and V., of this 
regulation. 
I.D.5. 
No Certification of Diesel Emissions Control may be issued to a diesel vehicle of model 
year 1991 and newer if there is evidence of diesel emissions control system tampering, 
as determined by the procedures described in Part B, III. A.4. of this regulation. 
I.D.6. 
A temporary Certification of Emissions Control may be issued by a Department of 
Revenue AIR Program Air Environmental Systems Technician to those vehicles which fail 
the initial opacity inspection and continue to exceed applicable opacity standards, and for 
which needed parts are not presently available in order to make corrective repairs to that 
specific vehicle. 
I.D.7. 
A “Certification of Diesel Smoke Opacity Waiver” shall be issued by a Department of 
Revenue AIR Program Air Environmental Systems Technician to any diesel vehicle which 
has been re-inspected after failing the initial opacity inspection procedure as prescribed 
in Part B, III. of this regulation, and exceed the applicable smoke opacity limits as stated 
in Part B, V. of this regulation, and for which proper presentation of documented 
evidence, of expenditures for smoke emissions related adjustments and repairs have 
been made which equal or exceed minimum dollar expenditures as follows: 
I.D.7.a. For light-duty diesel vehicles (less than or equal to fourteen thousand pounds 
GVWR) a minimum expenditure of seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750) must 
be made in an attempt to comply with smoke opacity standards. 
I.D.7.b. For heavy-duty diesel vehicles (greater than fourteen thousand pounds GVWR), 
a minimum expenditure of fifteen hundred dollars ($1500) must be made in an 
attempt to comply with smoke opacity standards. 
I.D.7.c. Confirmation of documented evidence that minimum expenditures for smoke 
emissions related repairs have been made and issuance of a “Certification of 
Diesel Smoke Opacity Waiver” shall be made only by a Department of Revenue 
Air Environmental Systems Technician. 
I.D.7.d. Documented proof of smoke emissions repair costs for the specific failing vehicle 
shall be in the form of an itemized bill, invoice, work order, manifest, or 
statement, for the following types of work and/or parts: 
I.D.7.d.i.  
Replacements, adjustments and repairs to the diesel vehicle 
which are directly related to the reduction of exhaust smoke, necessary 
to comply with the applicable opacity standards.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
21 
I.D.7.d.ii. 
Replacements, repairs and adjustments to the following systems 
shall qualify as emissions related repairs for the purpose of reducing 
exhaust smoke opacity: 
I.D.7.d.ii.A. 
Air intake systems 
I.D.7.d.ii.B. 
Fuel system components, including fuel injection pumps, 
injectors and related components. 
I.D.7.d.ii.C. 
Exhaust systems 
I.D.7.d.ii.D. 
Turbochargers and superchargers, scavenging pumps 
(blowers) for two-stroke cycle engines 
I.D.7.d.ii.F. 
Fuel control systems, utilized to control the air/fuel ratio, 
including microprocessor/electronic control systems, mechanical 
systems, hydraulic systems or pneumatic systems. 
I.D.7.d.ii.G. 
Basic Engine Systems 
I.D.7.d.iii. 
The expenditure for smoke reduction activities does not include 
the opacity inspection or reinspection fee(s) as specified in Section 42-4-
408 (3) C.R.S., nor does the expenditure include the costs of 
replacement, adjustment, or repair of air pollution control equipment due 
to instances of neglect, maladjustment, abuse, tampering or 
disconnection. 
I.D.7.d.iv. 
Air pollution control equipment is any part, assembly or system 
originally installed by the manufacturer for the sole or primary purpose of 
reducing emissions. Such equipment shall include, but is not limited to, 
the On-Board Diagnostic (OBD) system, exhaust aftertreatment devices, 
and exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) systems. 
I.E. 
Fees for Diesel Opacity Inspections 
I.E.1. 
Initial Opacity Inspection Fees 
A licensed Diesel Opacity Inspection station shall charge a fee not to exceed the hourly shop rate 
for one hour as posted by the station pursuant to Part B, IV.A.4. of this regulation, for the 
inspection of any diesel-fueled motor vehicle required to be inspected pursuant to this regulation. 
I.E.2. 
Reinspection Fees for Vehicles Failing Initial Opacity Inspection 
If the vehicle fails the initial opacity inspection, the vehicle owner has 30 days in which to have 
repairs or adjustments made and return the vehicle to the licensed diesel inspection station which 
performed the initial inspection for one reinspection at a cost not exceeding the posted hourly 
shop rate for one hour. 
I.E.3. 
Certificate of Emissions Control Fee 
In order to encompass costs incurred by the Department of Revenue and the Department of 
Public Health and Environment in the administration, operation and evaluation of the diesel 
Opacity Inspection Program Certificate of Emissions Control (CEC) credits shall be sold to 
licensed diesel vehicle inspection stations for a cost of five dollars ($5) each. Certificates of

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
22 
emissions control must be purchased from the agency designated by the Commission (AQCC). 
Licensed stations will be charged for the passing test records generated. 
I.E.4. 
Home Rule Inclusion in the Diesel Opacity Inspection Program. 
Any home rule city, town, or county shall, upon request by the governing body of such local 
government to the Department of Public Health and Environment and the Department of 
Revenue, be included in the Diesel Opacity Inspection Program. When such a request is made, 
said departments and governing body shall agree to a start-up date for the Diesel Opacity 
Inspection Program in such areas. On or after such dates, all diesel-fueled motor vehicles which 
are registered in the area shall be inspected and required to comply with the provisions of this 
regulation, as if such area was in the Program area. 
II. 
Test Equipment Requirements 
Standards and procedures for the operation, adjustment, calibration and certification of the Division- 
approved smoke opacity meters, chassis dynamometers, and other required equipment in the 
performance of diesel opacity inspections for the Diesel Opacity Inspection Program. 
II.A. 
Approval of Required Test Equipment 
Diesel opacity inspection required by the Diesel Opacity Inspection Program shall not be performed 
unless the equipment used meets the specifications of the Colorado Diesel Opacity Inspection Program 
as defined in this regulation and as approved by the Division. Opacity meters, chassis dynamometers, 
photo tachometers and strip chart recorders must be approved by the Division. A manufacturer 
requesting the approval of an instrument for use in Colorado’s Diesel Opacity Inspection Program shall 
make application thereof on forms provided thereby, and sources of vendors for the qualifying 
instruments may be obtained from the Program Administrator, Mobile Sources Section, Air Pollution 
Control Division, Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, 4300 South Cherry Creek 
Drive, Denver, CO, 80246. 
II.B. 
Running Changes and Equipment Updates 
Any changes to design or performance characteristics of components’ specifications which may affect 
equipment or instrument performance must be approved by the Commission. It will be the instrument 
manufacturer’s responsibility to confirm that such changes have no detrimental effect on opacity meter or 
other equipment or instrument performance. All equipment and instruments used in Colorado’s Diesel 
Opacity Inspection Program will be updated as needed and specified in revisions to Commission 
Regulation Number 12. 
II.C. 
Opacity Meter 
Every licensed station shall have on the premises an approved portable opacity meter meeting 
specifications to conduct opacity tests for the Diesel Opacity Inspection Program. Only opacity meters 
approved by the Division shall be used for opacity inspections in the Diesel Opacity Inspection program. 
The opacity meter is to be portable in design and function with an emphasis on compactness and light 
weight. The instrument will consist of two major, separate components connected by an interconnecting 
cable. The major components are the stack monitor/sensor and the control/indicator unit. 
II.C.1. Opacity Meter Specifications 
II.C.1.a.  
Stack Monitor/Sensor

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
23 
II.C.1.a.i. 
Must be adaptable by means of a quick connect device, to 
exhaust piping and outlets having outside diameters from two to six 
inches. 
II.C.1.a.ii. 
Light Source: Light emitting diode (LED), pulsed green light. 
II.C.1.a.iii. 
Light Detector: Silicon photo detector. 
II.C.1.a.iv. 
Provide for in line continuous measurement of exhaust opacity. 
II.C.1.b.  
Control/Indicator Unit 
II.C.1.b.i. 
Meter Display 
II.C.1.b.i.A. 
Range: 0-100 percent opacity 
II.C.1.b.i.B. 
Accuracy 
II.C.1.b.i.C. 
Digital read-out; Plus or minus two percent of full scale 
II.C.1.b.i.D. 
Drift: Less than 2.5% per hour 
II.C.1.b.i.E. 
Response time: Less than two seconds from 0-100% of 
scale 
II.C.1.b.i.F 
Peak Hold Feature 
II.C.1.b.ii. 
Warm-up time: Not to exceed ten minutes 
II.C.1.b.iii. 
Operating temperature range: 35°-120°F. 
II.C.1.b.iv. 
Integrated with a chart recorder/digital recording device and/or 
provide for a linear 0-1 VDC OR 0-10 VDC output signal. 
II.C.1.b.v. 
Power Requirements 
II.C.1.b.v.A. 
115 Volts AC input 
II.C.1.b.v.B. 
Internal replaceable or rechargeable batteries allowing 
for operation independent of AC input. 
II.C.1.b.vi. 
Connecting Cable 
II.C.1.b.vi.A. 
Heat and abrasion resistant 
II.C.1.b.vii. 
Calibration: Opacity meters must be calibration checked weekly. 
Calibration results must be entered into the inspection software provided 
by the Department or Division. 
II.D. 
Dynamometer Specifications and Criteria 
II.D.1. Light-duty Dynamometers

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
24 
II.D.1.a. 
Capacity: A minimum requirement is the capacity to absorb up to 500 
horsepower at speeds between 50 and 80 miles per hour (mph), capable of 
accommodating vehicles with individual axle loads up to 5,000 lbs. 
II.D.1.b.  
Rolls: Minimum roll diameter is 8.5 inches. 
II.D.1.c. Load and Speed Control 
II.D.1.c.i. 
Infinitely variable throughout the load and speed range from no-
load to full-load. Reference the dynamometer’s “performance envelope” 
or power absorption capacity curve. 
II.D.1.c.ii. 
Ability to set a load or speed and until deactivated, maintain that 
preset setting without additional input from the load controller. 
II.D.1.d.  
Instrumentation: Interfaced, calibrated horsepower and road speed 
indicators located in such a manner to be readily visible and discernible by the 
operator of the vehicle under test. 
II.D.1.e.  
Calibration: 
II.D.1.e.i. 
Provision for field checking the accuracy of the dynamometer’s 
calibration including the electrical output signal, interface and attendant 
instrumentation. 
II.D.1.e.ii. 
Availability of manufacturer’s recommended/ specified 
equipment, tools and procedures for the field calibration and adjustment 
of the dynamometer. 
II.D.2. Heavy-duty Dynamometers 
II.D.2.a.  
Capacity: A minimum requirement is the capability to absorb a minimum 
of 500 horsepower at speeds between 50 and 80 mph. Capable of 
accommodating vehicles with individual axle loads up to 22,000 lbs. 
II.D.2.b.  
Rolls: 
II.D.2.b.i. 
Minimum roll diameter: 8.5 in. 
II.D.2.b.ii. 
Tandem axle capability to accommodate, at a minimum, vehicle 
inter-axle spacing of 48 to 58 inches. 
II.D.2.c.  
Load and Speed Control: 
II.D.2.c.i. 
Infinitely variable throughout the load and speed range from no-
load to full-load. Reference the dynamometer’s “performance envelope” 
or power absorption capacity curve. 
II.D.2.c.ii. 
Ability to set a load or speed and until deactivated, maintain that 
preset setting without additional input from the load controller. 
II.D.2.d.  
Instrumentation: Interfaced, calibrated horsepower and road speed 
indicators located in such a manner to be readily readable and discernible by the 
operator of the vehicle under test.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
25 
II.D.2.e.  
Calibration: 
II.D.2.e.i 
Provision for field checking the accuracy of the dynamometer’s 
calibration including the electrical output signal, interface and attendant 
instrumentation. 
II.D.2.e.ii. 
Availability of manufacturer’s recommended/ specified 
equipment, tools, and procedures for the field calibration and adjustment 
of dynamometer. 
II.E. 
Other Required Equipment for Diesel Opacity Inspection Stations. 
II.E.1. Photo tachometer (Heavy-Duty Vehicle Inspection Stations Only) 
Every heavy-duty diesel vehicle inspection station shall have a photo tachometer capable of 
sensing a vehicle’s engine rpm and digitally displaying that rpm in the vehicle operator’s 
compartment. This tachometer must be capable of measuring rpm from 0-6000 rpm with an 
accuracy of plus or minus five rpm or better. For heavy-duty on-road testing stations this unit 
must be of portable design with the readout capable of being read from the vehicle’s cab, and 
must be easily interfaced with the strip chart recorder. 
II.E.2. Certified Neutral Density Filters. 
Two neutral density filters, certified and calibrated by the Division, must be kept by each diesel 
testing station for weekly calibration checks of the opacity meter. The results of the calibration 
checks of each approved opacity meter must be entered into the inspection software provided by 
the Division and made available to Department of Revenue Air Environmental Systems 
Technicians upon request during station inspections. 
II.E.3. Certified Thermometer 
For use in the Diesel Opacity Inspection Program, the thermometer must be a laboratory grade 
ambient temperature measuring device with a range of at least 20°F (twenty degrees) through 
120°F (one-hundred-twenty degrees) and an attested accuracy of at least plus or minus 1° (one 
degree) Fahrenheit with increments of one degree, with protective shielding, and approved by the 
Department of Revenue. 
II.E.4. Safety Restraint Equipment 
Adequate safety restraint equipment for all dynamometer test stations is required. Restraint 
equipment must be capable of restraining the type of vehicles tested at that station. Equipment 
may be chains, fabric tie-down straps, wheel chocks, as appropriate and as approved upon 
licensing. 
II.E.5. Hearing ear protectors, as needed. 
II.E.6. Auxiliary engine cooling fan. 
Light-duty inspection stations are required to have available on premises and for use during 
opacity inspections, an auxiliary engine cooling fan which meets the following minimum 
specifications: 
Guarded fan complying with OSHA regulations. 
CFM free air delivery of 3200 CFM

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
26 
Fan diameter of 24 inches. 
¼ H.P. motor. 
II.E.7. Exhaust gas removal equipment. 
If a closed exhaust system is utilized, the pressure within the system shall be maintained between 
4 inches H2O positive pressure and 2 inches H2O negative pressure at all times when any given 
vehicle is undergoing opacity testing. 
II.E.8. Required reference materials, including a Division-approved current emissions control 
systems application guide. 
II.E.9. Basic hand tools necessary to perform inspection. 
III. 
Procedures and Practices to Ensure the Proper Performance of Opacity Inspections 
III.A. 
General Inspection Requirements 
III.A.1. All aspects of the inspection must be performed by a licensed diesel emissions inspector. 
It is the responsibility of the inspector to notify the Department of Revenue of his/her 
current place of employment. 
III.A.2. The inspection shall take place at the address of the station license. 
III.A.3. The temperature of the inspection area shall be between 35°F and 110°F (2°C and 43°C) 
during the inspection. The inspection must be conducted in a well-ventilated location. 
III.A.4. For 1991 and later model year diesel vehicles, the diesel emissions inspector shall 
perform an inspection for the integrity of the emissions control systems and/or devices as 
listed on the vehicle’s emissions control label or in an emissions control systems 
application guide. The following system/devices if original equipment manufacturer 
supplied must be installed, intact and apparently operational: 
III.A.4.a. 
Any fuel injection pump seals and covers. 
III.A.4.b. 
Fuel control systems, utilized to control the air/fuel ratio, including 
microprocessor/electronic control systems, mechanical systems, hydraulic 
systems or pneumatic systems. 
III.A.4.c. 
Exhaust after-treatment device systems. Any aftermarket catalytic 
converter on a vehicle must be federally compliant (in accordance with 40 C.F.R. 
Part 85, Subpart V, January 24, 2023) 
III.A.4.d. 
Engine computer controls, related sensors, actuators, malfunction 
indicator, or service maintenance reminder lights. Engine computer control 
hardware and software must be original equipment, or must be certified by the 
aftermarket parts manufacturer in writing with words to the effect of: “Required 
testing has been performed and the manufacturer warrants that this part will not 
adversely affect emissions performance.” Aftermarket emissions control 
components must be engineered and built to fit the specific vehicle application. 
III.A.4.e. 
Positive crankcase ventilation must be maintained as a closed system. 
Other systems (crankcase depression and air box drain equipment) must be 
maintained as designed.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
27 
III.A.4.f.  
The exhaust gas recirculation valve and related coolers, piping and 
control systems. 
III.A.4.g. 
Emissions system related hoses, connectors, brackets, and hardware. 
III.A.4.h. 
Any other emissions-related components for a particular vehicle/engine 
as listed on a vehicle evaluation form (DR2365) issued by Emissions Technical 
Center staff. 
III.A.4.i.  
The vehicle shall fail the inspection if the emission control components 
are found to be tampered, defective, or otherwise rendered partially or 
completely inoperative. When determining original equipment emissions control 
systems/devices, the vehicle’s under-the-hood emissions control label takes 
precedence over any other sources of information. 
III.A.4.j.  
Any after-market replacement devices and software must meet the 
requirements in EPA Tampering Policy Memorandum November 23, 2020: The 
EPA Enforcement Policy on Vehicle and Engine Tampering and after-market 
defeat devices under the Clean Air Act. After-market emissions control 
components must be engineered and built to fit the specific vehicle application. 
III.A.4.k. 
It is the vehicle owner’s responsibility to prove the acceptability of after-
market devices/software, by producing the device/software manufacturer’s 
statement warranting against adversely affecting emissions performance and the 
applicability of that device/software for the specific vehicle application. In the 
case where the manufacturer’s certification is called to question or is missing, the 
Division may determine the acceptability of an after-market device/software. 
III.B. 
Inspection Procedure for Light-Duty Diesel Vehicles (fourteen thousand pounds GVWR and less) 
III.B.1. Preliminary Check of Vehicle 
III.B.1.a. 
Safety check vehicle (tires, drive-line, etc.) 
III.B.1.b. 
Ensure engine lube oil and coolant levels are at proper levels. 
III.B.1.c. 
For vehicles with multiple exhaust outlets, operate engine, observe and 
determine which emits the heavier exhaust smoke. During testing, monitor the 
exhaust outlet which emits the heavier smoke, if there is a difference in smoke 
levels. 
III.B.2. Diesel Vehicle Inspection Report Forms (DVIR) 
III.B.2.a. 
The opacity inspector shall accurately identify and enter vehicle and 
owner information from vehicle to be tested as required on the DVIR. 
III.B.3. Prepare Vehicle for Opacity Testing 
III.B.3.a. 
Locate vehicle on dynamometer. 
III.B.3.b. 
Secure vehicle with adequate safety restraints such as chains, nylon 
straps, wheel chocks or tie downs. 
III.B.3.c. 
Locate auxiliary engine cooling fan in front of vehicle radiator or engine 
cooling inlet, whichever is applicable.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
28 
III.B.3.d. 
Vehicle is to be at a stabilized normal operating temperature. This shall 
be determined by feeling the top radiator hose, by checking the temperature 
gauge, and/or operating the vehicle prior to performing the inspection. 
III.B.3.e. 
Zero/span opacity meter following manufacturer’s specifications. Clean 
and recalibrate as necessary before conducting test. 
III.B.3.f.  
Attach pre-calibrated opacity meter to vehicle’s exhaust outlet and 
calibrate meter according to the manufacturer’s instructions. 
III.B.4. Opacity Testing 
Opacity testing of light-duty diesel vehicles involves a dynamometer loaded-mode lug-down test 
procedure. 
Engine temperature and oil pressure are to be closely monitored during all testing. Testing is to 
be discontinued if engine and vehicle operating parameters are not within acceptable limits. 
III.B.4.a. 
Dynamometer Test Procedure 
III.B.4.a.i. 
Verify smoke opacity meter is set at zero. Start and operate 
engine at idle rpm. With the dynamometer in an unloaded 
mode/condition and the vehicle in direct or drive gear (do not use 
overdrive), slowly increase vehicle speed to 60 mph (plus or minus two 
mph). Continue to maintain (by manual or automatic control) 60 mph 
while slowly increasing dynamometer loading until maximum horsepower 
(hp) is developed at 60 mph. Maintain this wide open throttle speed/load 
condition for a minimum of 10 seconds (plus or minus four seconds) and 
record mph, opacity, and hp on Opacity Worksheet. Proceed directly to 
Step 4.a.iii. 
III.B.4.a.ii. 
Reserved 
III.B.4.a.iii. 
While maintaining wide open throttle; slowly increase the 
dynamometer loading until a vehicle speed of 50 mph (plus or minus two 
mph) is achieved. Maintain this wide open throttle speed/load condition 
for a minimum of 10 seconds (plus or minus four seconds) and record 
mph, opacity, and hp on Opacity Worksheet. Proceed directly to Step 
4.a.iv. 
III.B.4.a.iv. 
While maintaining wide open throttle; slowly increase the 
dynamometer loading until a vehicle speed of 40 mph (plus or minus two 
mph) is achieved. Maintain this wide open throttle speed/load condition 
for a minimum of ten seconds (plus or minus four seconds) and record 
mph, opacity, and horsepower. 
III.B.4.a.v. 
Slowly remove dynamometer loading while returning engine to 
idle. Shut down engine after observing cool down procedure. Note and 
record residual opacity meter reading on Opacity Worksheet. 
III.B.4.a.vi. 
The inspector shall refer to the opacity standards in Part B, V. of 
this regulation. 
III.B.4.a.vi.A. 
If the highest opacity reading taken from Steps 4.a.i. 
through 4.a.iv. exceeds the opacity standard and the opacity

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
29 
meter shift exceeds five percent (5%), clean the lenses, zero 
meter and repeat the dynamometer test procedure starting at 
Step 4.a.i. At least one additional test will be conducted at no 
cost to the motorist. 
III.B.4.a.vi.B. 
If the highest opacity reading taken from Steps 4.a.i. 
through 4.a.iv. exceeds the opacity standard and the opacity 
meter zero shift is less than five percent (5%), the vehicle fails 
the inspection. 
III.B.4.a.vii. 
The inspector shall then enter the highest opacity reading, the 
opacity meter zero shift, the pass/fail determination, provide an electronic 
signature and other required information on the DVIR media. Vehicles 
which comply with the inspection procedures and applicable opacity 
standards shall be issued a completed CEC. 
III.B.5. Vehicle Removal from Dynamometer 
III.B.5.a. 
Detach all test equipment, restraints and remove them from the vehicle. 
III.B.5.b. 
Remove vehicle from dynamometer 
III.C. 
Dynamometer Inspection Procedures for Heavy-Duty Diesel Vehicles (Greater than fourteen 
thousand pounds GVWR.) 
III.C.1. Preliminary Check of Vehicle 
III.C.1.a. 
Safety check vehicle (tires, drive-line, etc.) 
III.C.1.b. 
Ensure engine lube oil and coolant levels are at proper levels. 
III.C.1.c. 
Verify proper operation of vehicle tachometer, or mount and connect 
approved photo tachometer. 
III.C.1.d. 
For vehicles with multiple exhaust outlets, operate engine, observe and 
determine which outlet emits the heavier exhaust smoke, if there is a difference. 
During testing, monitor the exhaust outlet which emits the heavier smoke. 
III.C.2. Diesel Vehicle Inspection Reports (DVIR) 
III.C.2.a. 
The opacity inspector shall accurately identify and enter vehicle and 
owner information from vehicle being tested as required on the DVIR. 
III.C.2.b. 
Determine the engine’s rated horsepower and attendant rpm and enter 
on DVIR and also on the opacity worksheet 
III.C.3. Prepare Vehicle for Opacity Testing 
III.C.3.a. 
Locate vehicle on dynamometer. 
III.C.3.b. 
Secure vehicle with adequate safety restraints such as chains, nylon 
straps, wheel chocks or tie downs.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
30 
III.C.3.c. 
Vehicle is to be at a stabilized operating temperature. This shall be 
determined by feeling the top radiator hose, by checking the temperature gauge, 
and/or by operating the vehicle prior to performing the inspection. 
III.C.3.d. 
Zero/span opacity meter, following manufacturer’s specifications. Clean 
and recalibrate, as necessary, before conducting test. 
III.C.3.e. 
Attach pre-calibrated opacity meter to vehicle’s exhaust outlet and 
calibrate meter according to the manufacturer’s instructions. 
III.C.4.  Opacity Testing 
Dynamometer opacity testing of heavy-duty diesel vehicles involves two separate and distinct test 
procedures. The two tests are 1) a snap/free no-load acceleration test and 2) a dynamometer 
loaded-mode lug-down test procedure. Engine temperature and oil pressure are to be closely 
monitored during all testing. Testing is to be discontinued if engine and vehicle operating 
parameters are not within acceptable limits. 
NOTE: If the vehicle is equipped with a temperature regulated radiator shutter or modulating fan 
and its operation is erratic, unstable or questionable, secure the shutter in the open position for 
the duration of the opacity test. 
III.C.4.a. 
Snap/Free Acceleration Test Procedure 
This procedure requires a rapid Wide Open Throttle (WOT) no-load acceleration of the 
engine from low idle to maximum governed no-load rpm with the transmission in neutral 
III.C.4.a.i. 
Verify the zero setting of the opacity meter. Start and operate the 
engine at idle rpm. 
III.C.4.a.ii. 
With the transmission in neutral and the engine at idle rpm, 
slowly accelerate the engine allowing the engine to reach its maximum 
stabilized governed speed. Allow the engine to return to idle. 
III.C.4.a.iii. 
Place the opacity meter in the peak hold position. 
III.C.4.a.iv. 
Perform the acceleration procedure as in Step 4.a.ii., but rapidly 
accelerate the engine. Record on the opacity worksheet the highest or 
peak smoke opacity reading attained during the procedure. 
III.C.4.a.v. 
Return the engine to idle rpm and shut down engine. 
III.C.4.a.vi. 
Return opacity meter to normal mode (peak hold off) and note 
zero shift (deviation) reading. Record the peak opacity value obtained in 
Step 4.a.iv. and the meter zero shift on the DVIR, and proceed to the 
dynamometer test procedure.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
31 
III.C.4.b. 
Dynamometer Test Procedure 
III.C.4.b.i. 
Verify smoke opacity meter is set at zero. Start and operate 
engine at idle rpm. With the dynamometer in an unloaded 
mode/condition, select a gear which will allow the vehicle to attain and 
maintain a no-load vehicle speed of 60 to 70 miles per hour (mph) at 
wide open throttle (WOT). It is preferred and recommended that vehicle 
be operated at the lower end of this mph range whenever possible. If 
vehicle has a maximum road speed that is less than 60 mph, operate 
vehicle at the highest mph possible. Upon stabilization, maintain speed 
for at least ten seconds (plus or minus four seconds) and record engine 
rpm and mph on opacity worksheet. 
III.C.4.b.ii. 
While maintaining wide open throttle (WOT), slowly increase the 
dynamometer loading until engine rated rpm (plus or minus 15 rpm) is 
obtained. Maintain this speed/load for at least ten seconds (plus or minus 
four seconds) and record the following information: engine rpm, smoke 
opacity, and horsepower. 
III.C.4.b.iii. 
Maintain wide open throttle (WOT) and slowly increase 
dynamometer loading until engine is at 90% of rated rpm (plus or minus 
15 rpm). Maintain this speed/load for at least ten seconds (plus or minus 
four seconds) and record data on opacity worksheet; engine rpm, smoke 
opacity, and hp. 
III.C.4.b.iv. 
Maintain wide open throttle (WOT) and slowly increase 
dynamometer loading until engine is at 80% of rated rpm (plus or minus 
15 rpm). Maintain this speed/load for at least ten seconds (plus or minus 
four seconds) and record data on opacity worksheet; engine rpm, smoke 
opacity, and hp. 
III.C.4.b.v. 
Maintain wide open throttle (WOT) and slowly increase 
dynamometer loading until engine is at 70% of rated rpm (plus or minus 
15 rpm). Maintain this speed/load for at least ten seconds (plus or minus 
four seconds) and record data on opacity worksheet; engine rpm, smoke 
opacity, and hp. This step concludes the engine loading procedure; do 
not apply additional loading under any circumstances. 
III C.4.b.vi. 
Reserved 
III.C.4.b.vii. 
Slowly remove dynamometer loading while returning engine to 
idle. Shut down engine after observing cool down procedure. Note and 
record residual opacity meter reading on Opacity Worksheet. 
III.C.4.b.viii. 
The inspector shall refer to the opacity standards in Part B, V. of 
this regulation. 
III.C.4.b.viii.A. If the highest opacity reading taken from Steps 4.b.ii. 
through 4.b.v. exceeds the opacity standard and the opacity 
meter zero shift exceeds five percent (5%), clean the lenses, 
zero meter and repeat the dynamometer test procedure starting 
at Step 4.B.I. At least one additional test will be conducted at no 
cost to the motorist.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
32 
III.C.4.b.viii.B. If the highest opacity reading taken from Steps 4.b.ii. 
through 4.b.v. exceeds the opacity standard and the opacity 
meter zero shift is less than five percent (5%), the vehicle fails 
the inspection. 
III.C.4.b.viii.C. If neither the highest opacity meter reading taken in 
steps (ii) through (v) nor the opacity meter zero shift exceeds the 
opacity standard, the vehicle passes the inspection. 
 
III.C.4.b.ix. 
The inspector shall then enter the highest opacity reading, the 
opacity meter zero shift, the pass/fail determination, provide an electronic 
signature, and other required information on the DVIR. Vehicles which 
comply with the inspection procedures and applicable opacity standards 
shall be issued a completed CEC. 
III.C.4.c. 
Vehicle Removal from Dynamometer 
III.C.4.c.i. 
Detach all test equipment, restraints and remove them from the 
vehicle. 
III.C.4.c.ii. 
If the vehicle is equipped with a radiator shutter or modulating 
fan which has been secured in the open position prior to testing, restore 
unit to normal operation. 
III.C.4.c.iii. 
Remove vehicle from dynamometer. 
III.D.  
The Division has the authority to determine the applicability of this regulation for unique testing 
situations not specifically addressed in this regulation. 
IV. 
Qualification of Inspection Stations and Testing and Licensing of Diesel Opacity 
Inspectors 
IV.A. 
Requirements for Licensing of a Diesel Opacity Inspection Station 
IV.A.1. The following equipment and tools shall be available at Diesel Opacity Inspection 
Stations for performance of diesel opacity inspections: 
IV.A.1.a. 
Smoke opacity meter (see Part B, II.C.) in proper calibration according to 
the manufacturer’s guidelines. 
IV.A.1.b. 
Chassis dynamometer (see Part B, II.D.). 
IV.A.1.c. 
Photo tachometer (See Part B, II.E.1.). 
IV.A.1.d. 
Reserved 
IV.A.1.e. 
Neutral density filter for calibration check of opacity meter. (See Part B, 
II.E.3.). 
IV.A.1.f. 
Manufacturer’s operation, maintenance and calibration manuals for 
opacity meters and dynamometers must be retained in the inspection area. 
IV.A.1.g. 
Certified thermometer, as described in Part B, II.E.4.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
33 
IV.A.1.h. 
Safety restraint equipment, as described in Part B, II.E.5. 
IV.A.1.i. 
Hearing (ear) protection. 
IV.A.1.j. 
Engine cooling fan. Required for light-duty inspection stations only. 
IV.A.1.k. 
Exhaust removal equipment. 
IV.A.1.l.  
Reference materials as required by licensing. 
IV.A.1.m. 
Basic hand tools necessary to perform inspection. 
IV.A.1.n. 
An internet-connected device for inspection data entry and data transfer, 
as approved by the Division 
IV.A.2. The station must be a permanent location which meets all applicable zoning 
requirements to provide for the inspection of diesel vehicles, as licensed, and as defined 
in this regulation. 
IV.A.3. A licensed diesel emissions inspector is employed and is available to make a proper 
inspection during all hours the station is open for business. 
IV.A.4. All Diesel Opacity Inspection stations are required to post in a conspicuous location in a 
clearly legible fashion a sign indicating the fees charged for the initial inspection and first 
reinspection. Such fees shall not exceed the posted hourly shop rate for one hour. 
Inspection personnel shall notify diesel vehicle owners of the fee prior to performing any 
test procedure. 
IV.A.5. The Division may perform station equipment and inspector performance audits. 
IV.B. 
Training, Testing and Licensing of Applicants for Diesel Opacity Inspectors 
IV.B.1. Certificates of Qualification for Diesel Opacity Inspectors 
IV.B.1.a. 
Applications for Certificates of Qualification for diesel opacity inspectors 
shall be filed with the Air Pollution Control Division, Colorado Department of 
Public Health and Environment, 2450 West Second Avenue, Denver, CO 80223, 
and the issuance of Certificates of Qualification shall be administered by the 
Division. Applications for such Certificates of Qualification shall be completed on 
forms provided by the Division. Before an applicant may be given a Certificate of 
Qualification, he must comply with the requirements of this section. The Division 
will notify applicants of the evaluation requirements prior to testing. 
IV.B.1.b. 
The Division shall develop a training program for diesel opacity 
inspectors. The training program shall be comprehensive in nature and address 
all aspects of diesel vehicle inspection procedures. Participation by diesel opacity 
inspectors in this training is required to receive a Certificate of Qualification. 
IV.B.2. An applicant must demonstrate knowledge, skill, and competence concerning the 
conduct of diesel opacity inspections. Such knowledge, skill and competence will be 
shown by passing a qualification test including, but not limited to, knowledge of the 
following: 
IV.B.2.a. 
Knowledge of rules and regulations of Diesel Opacity Inspection 
Program procedures.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
34 
IV.B.2.b. 
Visual inspection procedures of the required emissions control 
equipment for 1991 and newer vehicles. 
IV.B.2.c. 
Operation of and proper use, care, maintenance and calibration of the 
Commission – approved opacity meters, chassis dynamometers, photo 
tachometers and strip chart recorders. 
IV.B.2.d. 
Proper use of and distribution of DVIR, Certificates of Emissions Control, 
opacity worksheets and supplemental documents. 
IV.B.2.e. 
Waiver requirements for all diesel vehicles failing the initial emissions 
inspection. 
IV.B.3. For on-road heavy-duty diesel inspector licenses only, the applicant must possess a valid 
Colorado Class A operator’s license. 
IV.B.4. The Division shall issue a Certificate of Qualification to an applicant upon successful 
completion of the requirements of this section. 
IV.B.5. Requalification Requirements for all Diesel Opacity Inspectors 
IV.B.5.a. 
Upon the determination by the Commission of the necessity of 
technically updating the qualifications for diesel opacity inspectors and, upon 
development or approval of retraining courses and retesting requirements for 
diesel opacity inspectors to demonstrate said qualifications, diesel opacity 
inspectors, or holders of certificates of qualification shall be required to requalify. 
Participation by requalifying diesel opacity inspectors in this training is required to 
receive a Certificate of Qualification. 
IV.B.5.b. 
Diesel Opacity Inspectors shall be required to requalify within ninety (90) 
days from the date of written notification by the Division. Said notice shall be 
mailed to the address of record in the office of the Department of Revenue 
(Department) charged with licensing of diesel opacity inspectors which notice 
shall inform the person of the necessity of requalification and the nature of such 
skills, systems, and procedures requiring the retraining for the continued 
performance of the opacity inspection. The notice shall give the name and 
location of training sources approved or accredited for purposes of retraining, the 
necessity of requalification by a certain date, and the nature and evidence of 
documentation to be filed with the Division evidencing such requalification, and 
state that failure to requalify within said period of time shall result in suspension 
or revocation of the diesel opacity inspector’s license or certification as described 
in the Department’s rules and regulations. 
IV.B.5.c. 
The Division shall issue a Certificate of Requalification to any person 
who has requalified to the satisfaction of the Division and according to the 
requalification regulation of the Department. 
IV.B.6. Transmittal of Certificates and Issuance of Diesel Opacity Inspector’s Licenses 
The Division shall provide a duplicate copy of any Certificate of Qualification to the opacity 
inspector authority of the Department of Revenue, and, upon application by any person so 
certified or recertified, the Department shall issue a diesel opacity inspectors license in accord 
with the regulations of that department. 
IV.B.7. Lapse of Certificate of Qualification for Diesel Opacity Inspector

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
35 
A person to whom the Division has issued a Certificate of Qualification, or Certificate of 
Requalification, who has not been issued a Diesel Opacity Inspector’s license within six (6) 
months from the date of issuance of the most recently issued certificate shall be deemed to have 
forfeited the said certificate and shall be required to reapply if a new Certificate of Qualification is 
requested. 
V. 
Opacity Standards for Diesel-Powered Motor Vehicles Subject to Part B of This Regulation 
V.A. 
In order for a vehicle (owner) to obtain a valid Certification of Emissions Compliance, the exhaust 
opacity from the diesel-powered motor vehicle subject to the Diesel Opacity Inspection Program 
shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) opacity measured over five (5). 
VI. 
Vehicles with Non-Original Engines (Engine Changes) 
VI.A. 
If the original engine of the vehicle has been replaced the inspector shall not issue a CEC and 
shall refer the vehicle to the Division’s Emission Technical Center for an evaluation of whether the 
engine configuration will adversely affect the emissions performance of the vehicle or violate ant-
tampering statutes. 
VI.B.  
Pursuant to § 42-4-307, C.R.S, a replacement engine or powertrain, and the required emissions 
control equipment, computer management systems and vehicle test types will be determined by 
the Division’s Emissions Technical Center personnel based upon the vehicle certified engine test 
group and compliance with tampering statutes §42-4-314 and § 25-7-144, C.R.S.. An affidavit 
(Vehicle Evaluation Form DR 2365), shall be issued by the Emissions Technical Center 
personnel specifying the year of the engine and associated emissions control system 
requirements. 
VI.C. 
For those 1991 and newer vehicles in which the original engine type has been changed, the 
emissions limits and applicable emissions control equipment for the certification level of the new 
engine test group package will be determined by Emissions Technical Center personnel. Only an 
equal or tighter certification test group can be installed. An affidavit (Vehicle Evaluation Form DR 
2365), shall be issued by the Emissions Technical Center personnel specifying the year of the 
engine and associated emissions control system requirements. 
VI.D. 
For those vehicles which have been converted to operate on fuel(s) other than the original fuel 
type; the applicable emissions control equipment for the test group of the new fuel type powered 
engine equivalent as originally manufactured, for the vehicle body/chassis, per the registration or 
replacement engine configuration, will be determined by emissions technical center personnel. An 
affidavit (Vehicle Evaluation Form DR 2365), shall be issued by the Emissions Technical Center 
personnel specifying the year of the engine and associated emissions control system 
requirements. 
VII. 
Record Keeping Requirements 
VII.A. 
Diesel Opacity Inspection stations who provide emissions related repair services to the public are 
required to provide a legible invoice to the customer that includes at a minimum: Customer name 
and address; year make and model of the vehicle; vehicle identification number; date and 
odometer reading at each service. The invoice will also include an itemization of each part added 
to or replaced in the motor vehicle; a description of each part by name and identifying number; 
clear identification of which parts are new or used, reconditioned, or rebuilt; and the charges 
levied for each part added or replaced; the amount charged for labor, the full name or employee 
number of each mechanic or repairer who in whole or in part performed repairs. The Division has 
the authority to inspect these records during an audit, during the course of an investigation, or at 
any other reasonable time.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
36 
PART C 
STANDARDS FOR VISIBLE POLLUTANTS FROM DIESEL ENGINE POWERED 
VEHICLES (Operating on Roads, Streets and Highways) 
I. 
No person shall emit or cause to be emitted into the atmosphere from any diesel-powered motor 
vehicle operating in the program area of any air contaminant exceeding twenty percent (20%) 
opacity measured over five (5) seconds. 
II. 
This standard shall apply to motor vehicles intended, designed, and manufactured primarily for 
travel or use in transporting person, property, auxiliary equipment, and/or cargo over roads, 
streets, and highways. 
III. 
Enforcement of these emission standards shall be by peace officers and environmental officers 
pursuant to the authority of 42-4-412, or 42-4-413 C.R.S., within program boundaries. 
PART D 
STATEMENT OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE 
I. 
Amendment to Parts A and B, and Creation of this Part D 
Adopted January 15, 1998 
Basis and Purpose 
Regulation Number12 establishes programs for Diesel Opacity Inspections and for Diesel Fleet Self-
Certification. Both programs require annual emissions inspections for diesel vehicles covered by such 
programs. In 1997, the General Assembly revised §42-4-406 (1) (b) (II), C.R.S., to provide that new 
diesel vehicles do not need to be inspected until such vehicles are two years old, or upon a transfer of 
ownership. The revisions adopted on January 15, 1998 create such an exemption from inspection 
requirements for new diesel vehicles. 
Federal Requirements 
The Diesel Inspection Programs established in Regulation Number 12 are federally required because the 
State took emission reduction credit for such programs in the Denver element of the State Implementation 
Plan for particulate matter (Denver PM10 SIP). However, federal law does not expressly require the State 
to have opacity or emissions inspection programs for diesel vehicles and such programs are not required 
for areas outside of the Denver PM10 non-attainment area. 
Federal law is entirely silent on the question of whether the creation of a two-year exemption from 
inspection requirements for new diesel vehicles will change the emissions reduction credit associated 
with such programs. Since federal law is silent on this issue, the Commission cannot determine whether 
federal law permits the State to create an exemption for such vehicles for more than the two years 
established by § 42-4-406 (1) (b) (II), C.R.S., or whether such exemption is not required by provisions of 
the Federal Act or is otherwise more stringent than requirements of the Federal Act. Nevertheless, the 
January 15, 1998 revisions should be submitted to EPA as a revision to the Denver PM10 SIP. The 
submission of this revision to EPA is required in order to give effect to § 42-4-406 (1) (b) (II) in federal law. 
Failure to include the January 15, 1998 revisions in the SIP would result in more stringent SIP provisions. 
The Division intends to propose a revision to Regulation Number12 to remove the Diesel Inspection 
Programs for Colorado Springs, Greeley, and Fort Collins from the SIP. 
Statutory Authority 
Specific statutory authority for the amendments is provided in § 42-4-403(1) and 42-4-406 (1) (b) (II).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
37 
Findings Pursuant to § 25-7-110.8 
The January 15, 1998 rule revisions relax existing inspection requirements for diesel vehicles and are not 
intended to increase the effectiveness of the relevant programs in reducing air pollution. Furthermore, the 
Commission has no discretion under state law not to create such an exemption for new diesel vehicles. 
For these reasons the determinations enumerated in § 25-7-110.8 (1), C.R.S., do not apply. 
II. 
Amendments to Parts B and D 
Adopted January 11, 2001 
Basis and Purpose 
Regulation Number12 establishes as a control strategy, the Diesel Opacity Inspection and the Diesel 
Fleet Self-Certification Programs. Both programs require periodic inspection of both light-duty and heavy-
duty diesel powered vehicles. Emissions related repairs are required of those vehicles that do not comply 
with inspection requirements. The intended purpose of Regulation Number 12 is to reduce diesel vehicle 
emissions. The diesel inspection and maintenance (diesel I/M) program is one of the control measures 
relied on to demonstrate attainment of federal requirements in the Denver PM State Implementation Plan 
(SIP). 
The rule revision implements the provisions of Section 42-4-408 (3), C.R.S. as amended pursuant to H.B. 
‘00-1381. H.B. ’00-1381 amends the inspection fee for diesel powered motor vehicles from a maximum of 
$45 to a fee no greater than the posted hourly shop rate for one hour. The amendments to Section 42-4-
408 (3) require inspection station personnel to notify diesel vehicle owner/operators of the fee, prior to 
conducting any element of the inspection. 
The revisions to Regulation Number 12 correct a statutory reference which established inspection fees 
that resulted when Title 42 of the Colorado Revised Statues was recodified. 
Federal Requirements 
The federal act and EPA requirements are silent to the issue of inspections fees, how fees may be 
structured and the posting of fees. The setting of a vehicle inspection fee or fees and the required posting 
of same are the prerogative of individual states. The fees specified and the manor, in which fees shall be 
posted, shall not be incorporated into the State Implementation Plan. 
Statutory Authority 
Specific statutory authority for amendments to Regulation Number 12 is Section 42-4-403, C.R.S. 
Findings Pursuant to Section 25-7-110.8, C.R.S 
The January 11, 2001 rule revisions do not increase or decrease the effectiveness of the Diesel Opacity 
Inspection Program in reducing diesel emissions. The rule revision results in Regulation Number12 being 
consistent with Section 42-4-408 (3), C.R.S. as amended. For these reasons, the determinations 
enumerated in Section 25-7-110.8 (1), C.R.S. do not apply.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
38 
III. 
Amendments to Parts A, B, C, and, D 
Adopted September 18, 2003 
Basis and Purpose 
Regulation Number 12 establishes as a control strategy, the Diesel Opacity Inspection and the Diesel 
Fleet Self-Certification Programs. Both programs require periodic inspection of both light-duty and heavy-
duty diesel powered vehicles. Emissions related repairs are required of those vehicles that do not comply 
with inspection requirements. The intended purpose of Regulation Number 12 is to reduce diesel vehicle 
emissions. The diesel inspection and maintenance (diesel I/M) program is no longer an element of the 
State Implementation Plan, with the April 19, 2001 changes to the PM SIP, all elements of regulation 12 
were removed from the SIP. The US EPA approved this SIP revision on September 16, 2002 and it 
became effective October 16, 2002. 
The rule revision implements various provisions of Section 42-4-401 through 414 and 25-7-122 C.R.S. as 
amended pursuant to H.B. ‘03-1053, as follows: 
• 
The distinction between light and Heavy-duty diesel vehicles is redefined, 
• 
New Heavy-duty diesel vehicles become exempt from emissions testing for four years, 
• 
The Heavy-duty diesel test cycle is extended to two years, 
• 
Vehicles routinely operated in the program area are required to be tested, 
• 
Allows the use of an automated snap-acceleration test procedure for fleets and for 
roadside enforcement, 
• 
Eliminates visual opacity testing for fleets older than ten years, 
• 
Allows the use of newer technology opacity meters, 
• 
Obsolescent an conforming changes are made, which changes are not substantive 
The revised rule identifies the J1667 Recommended Practice, Snap Acceleration Smoke Test Procedure 
for Heavy-duty Powered Motor Vehicles, © 1996 Society of Automotive Engineers Inc. (SAE) as the 
automated snap-acceleration test procedure that may be used for fleet inspections. The Commission 
adopted the SAE J1667 test procedures based on the authority set out in Section 42-4-414 (2) (b), 
C.R.S., as revised by HB03-1053 allowing the use of an automated opacity metering protocol. The SAE 
J1667 test procedure is such an automated opacity metering protocol. 
One participant stated that small operators tend to own older vehicles than large operators. Therefore, he 
noted that the mandatory use of an opacity meter for older fleet vehicles, but not for newer fleet vehicles, 
imposes a somewhat more onerous requirement on small operators. However, the requirement to use an 
opacity meter when testing older vehicles is set out in statute and the Commission does not have the 
authority to change that requirement. Section 42-4-414 (2) (b). Furthermore, the requirement for the use 
of an opacity meter on older, but not newer vehicles is justified because newer vehicles tend to be 
cleaner than older vehicles.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
39 
The Commission also readopted the rule in its entirety. Prior to HB03-1053, Section 42-4-414, C.R.S., 
vested rulemaking authority over the Diesel Fleet Self-Certification Program with the executive director of 
the department of public health and environment. The previous version of Part A, of Regulation Number 
12 was adopted by the Commission pursuant to a delegation of authority from the executive director. 
HB03-1053 revised Section 42-4-414 to delegate such rulemaking authority to the Commission directly 
from the General Assembly. The Commission hereby readopts Regulation Number 12 in its entirety 
pursuant to the authority granted it by the General Assembly in Sections 42-4-403 and 42-4-414. 
Federal Requirements 
There are no federal laws or rules requiring the Diesel Fleet Self-Certification Program or the Diesel 
Opacity Inspection Program. Both programs have been removed from the state implementation plan. 
Both programs are established by state statute and exceed the minimum federal requirements. 
Statutory Authority 
Specific statutory authority for amendments to Regulation Number 12 is set out in Sections 42-4-403 and 
42-4-414, C.R.S. 
Findings Pursuant To § 25-7-110.8 
The selection of the SAE J1667 test procedures as the automated opacity metering protocol approved by 
the Commission is based on reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and sound scientific 
methodologies. All validated, reviewed, and sound scientific methodologies and information made 
available by interested parties concerning the selection of an automated opacity metering protocol was 
considered. In fact, the J1667 test procedure was adopted, in part, due to suggestions from the diesel 
engine manufacturing sector over the years. The primary purpose of the adoption of the SAE J667 test 
procedure is to make diesel emissions test more convenient; it was not adopted to result in a 
demonstrable reduction in air pollution. To further enhance convenience and flexibility, the test is made 
optional for fleets. Fleets have the choice of continuing to use the lug-down tests already set out in the 
rule. For fleets, the test is optional. Thus, the adoption of the J1667 test procedures is administrative in 
nature. The optional nature of the J1667 test procedures makes the rule the most cost-effective 
alternative and will maximize the air quality benefits of Regulation Number 12 in the most cost-effective 
manner by giving the fleet’s additional flexibility. 
Most of the remaining rule revisions are exempt from the determinations required by § 25-7-110.8 C.R.S., 
because the changes were adopted to implement statutory provisions, rather than reduce air pollution. 
For the most part, the regulatory revisions relax existing inspections for diesel vehicles and the 
Commission has no discretion but to adopt them under state law. One area in which the Commission 
exercised discretion in a manner that may result in a reduction in air pollution concerns the definitions of 
the terms “principally operated” and “routinely operated”. However, such definitions are administrative in 
nature and are also exempt from the requirements of Section 25-7-110.8, C.R.S. HB03-1053 expanded 
the scope of the programs to include vehicles “routinely operated in the program area or principally 
operated from a terminal, maintenance facility, branch, or division located within the program area”, but 
did not define these terms. The statutory requirement to include such vehicles in the programs cannot 
reasonably be administered without defining the terms. For guidance in defining the terms, the 
Commission turned to the 90-day rule established in Section 42-4-310 (1) (c), C.R.S., for motorists 
commuting into the AIR Program. Thus, such definitions are administrative, rather than scientific, in 
nature. The 90-day rule was chosen to implement the overall legislative intent, rather than to achieve a 
specific reduction in air pollution. For these reasons the determinations enumerated in § 25-7-110.8 (1), 
C.R.S., do not apply.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
40 
IV. 
Amendments to Parts A, B, and D 
Adopted October 21, 2004 
Basis and Purpose 
The rule revision implements provisions of Section 42-4-406 (1)(b)(II) and 42-4-414 (2)(c) as amended 
pursuant to H.B. ‘04-1025, to remove the requirement of an emissions inspection upon change of 
ownership while the vehicle is still within its model year exemption, unless there is less than twelve 
months left on that exemption. The model year exemption for new light duty diesel vehicles is two years; 
and for new heavy-duty diesels the exemption period is four years. 
Statutory Authority 
Specific statutory authority for amendments to Regulation Number 12 is set out in Sections 42-4-403 and 
42-4-414, C.R.S. 
Findings pursuant to § 25-7-110.8 
The rule revisions are exempt from the determinations required by § 25-7-110.8 C.R.S. because the 
changes were adopted to implement statutory provisions, rather than reduce air pollution. The regulatory 
revisions relax existing inspections for diesel vehicles and the Commission has no discretion but to adopt 
them under state law. 
V. 
Amendments to Parts A, B, and D 
Adopted March 18, 2005 
Basis and Purpose 
The Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, Air Pollution Control Division proposes 
amendments to Air Quality Regulation Number 12: Reduction of Diesel Vehicle Emissions. The proposed 
amendments delete obsolete provisions and correct typographical and grammatical errors. The proposed 
revisions will have no regulatory impact on any person, facility, or activity. 
The proposed amendments remove transitional provisions of the diesel emissions inspection programs 
within the Front Range. The transition process will be complete by December 31, 2004, rendering the 
transition provisions in the Regulation obsolete. Legislative Legal Services requested that the transition 
language be removed from the rule in order to avoid confusion and potential conflict with statute. In 
addition, date references that are in the past have been removed from the proposed rule. 
Statutory Authority 
Specific statutory authority for amendments to Regulation Number 12 is set out in Sections 42-4-403 and 
42-4-414, C.R.S. 
Findings pursuant to § 25-7-110.8 
The rule revisions are exempt from the determinations required by § 25-7-110.8 C.R.S. because the 
changes were adopted to clarify and conform to existing statutory provisions, rather than reduce air 
pollution. The regulatory revisions remove references to obsolete provisions for diesel vehicles. The 
proposed revisions will have no regulatory impact on any person, facility, or activity.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
41 
VI. 
Amendments to Parts B and D 
Adopted November 16, 2006 
Basis and Purpose 
Regulation Number 12 establishes as a control strategy, the Diesel Opacity Inspection and the Diesel 
Fleet Self-Certification Programs. Both programs require periodic inspection of both light-duty and heavy-
duty diesel powered vehicles. Emissions related repairs are required of those vehicles that do not comply 
with inspection requirements. The intended purpose of Regulation Number 12 is to reduce diesel vehicle 
emissions. 
The rule revision implements provisions of Section 42-4-406 C.R.S. as amended pursuant to S.B. 06-058, 
as follows: 
• 
Light-duty diesel test cycles are extended to two years for models 10 years old or newer and 
model year 2004 and newer, 
• 
Extend the light-duty model year exemption from two years to four years, 
• 
Remove obsolescent language which changes are not substantive. 
The changes were adopted to implement statutory changes and the Commission has no discretion but to 
adopt the provisions of S.B. 06-058. The rule provides regulatory relief and is not intended to reduce air 
pollution. 
Statutory Authority 
Specific statutory authority for amendments to Regulation Number 12 is set out in Sections 42-4-403 and 
42-4-414, C.R.S. 
Findings pursuant to ξ 25-7-110.8 
The rule revisions are exempt from the determinations required by ξ 25-7-110.8 C.R.S. because the 
changes were adopted to implement statutory provisions and remove an obsolete provision rather than 
reduce air pollution. The regulatory revisions relax existing inspections for diesel vehicles and the 
Commission has no discretion but to adopt them under state law. 
Further, these revisions will include any typographical and grammatical errors throughout the regulation. 
VII. 
Amendments to Parts A, B, C and D 
Adopted October 20, 2011 
Basis and Purpose 
The purpose of this rulemaking is to revise Regulation Number 12 to conform to provisions of House Bill 
11-1157. House Bill 11-1157 permits heavy-duty vehicles that are registered in the Fleet Self-Certification 
Opacity Inspection Program area, but are physically based and principally operated outside of the 
program area to forgo the periodic opacity testing requirements contained in Air Quality Control 
Commission Regulation Number 12 Part A. 
It is projected by Air Pollution Control Division staff that the mandated changes to Regulation Number 12 
will affect less than 100 vehicles and result in no additional cost to the program, or air quality benefits. As 
such, there is no cost/benefit to be derived from the mandated changes.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
42 
Federal Requirements 
There are currently no federal requirements. Regulation No 12 regulates both the Fleet Self-Certification 
Opacity Testing Program (Regulation No 12, Part A), and the non fleet Diesel Opacity Inspection Program 
(Regulation Number 12, Part B). Both programs are aimed at improving air quality though reducing diesel 
opacity (smoke) from identified high opacity producing diesel vehicles. 
Specific Statutory Authority 
Specific Statutory Authority for the revisions to Regulation Number 12, are contained in Sections 42-4-
401 through 42-4-414, C.R.S., and specifically 42-4-414, C.R.S., for the Fleet Self-Certification Opacity 
Inspection Program. 
Scientific/Technical Rationale 
This rule is based on reasonably available validated, reviewed, and sound scientific methodologies. 
Findings pursuant to Section 25-7-110.8 
The rule revisions are exempt from the determinations required by Section 25-7-110.8 C.R.S. because 
the changes were adopted to implement statutory provisions rather than reduce air pollution. The 
regulatory revisions relax existing inspections for diesel vehicles and the Commission has no discretion 
but to adopt them under state law. 
Further, these revisions will include any typographical, grammatical and formatting errors throughout the 
regulation. 
VIII. 
Amendments to Part A 
Adopted August 15, 2013 
Basis and Purpose 
The purpose of this rulemaking is to revise Regulation Number 12 to adopt provisions contained in House 
Bill 13-1091. These revisions will permit qualified fleets to use “exemplary maintenance” as an alternative 
method to demonstrate compliance with opacity standards on vehicles ten years old or newer. Exemplary 
maintenance would be an optional choice, at the fleet’s own discretion. 
Air Pollution Control Division staff project that exemplary maintenance practices that continuously 
monitor, maintain, and repair modern fleet diesel vehicles, will result in at least the same level of air 
quality improvement as the existing periodic opacity testing. Well maintained late model heavy-duty diesel 
vehicles are equipped with extensive exhaust aftertreatment equipment and sophisticated engine 
controls. Late model heavy trucks when properly maintained, simply do not smoke. 
Federal Requirements 
There are currently no federal requirements. Regulation No 12 regulates both the Fleet Self-Certification 
Opacity Testing Program (Regulation No 12, Part A), and the non fleet Diesel Opacity Inspection Program 
(Regulation No. 12, Part B). Both programs are aimed at improving air quality though reducing diesel 
opacity (smoke) from identified high opacity producing diesel vehicles or for the self-certification fleets, 
through the proposed exemplary maintenance practices.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
43 
Specific Statutory Authority 
Specific Statutory Authority for the revisions to Regulation No. 12, are contained in Sections 42-4-401 
through 42-4(414), C.R.S., and specifically 42-4(414), C.R.S., for the Fleet Self-Certification Opacity 
Inspection Program. The exemplary maintenance option is specifically permitted under C.R.S. 42-4-
414(2)(a)(IV)(b.5), as amended by HB 13-1091. 
Scientific/Technical Rational 
This rule is based on reasonably available validated, reviewed, and sound scientific methodologies. 
Findings pursuant to Section 25-7-110.8 
Since fleets may use exemplary maintenance as an option to periodic opacity testing, and is voluntary on 
the fleet’s part, there is no measureable economic impact from this proposed rule change. Fleets are able 
to either participate in this program or conduct their traditional opacity testing at their choice, depending 
on whichever is less expensive and/or that meets their fleet’s requirements. Many fleets currently conduct 
their own exemplary maintenance practices that mirror the proposed requirements. 
IX. 
Amendments to Parts A, B, C and D 
Adopted August 18, 2016 
Basis and Purpose 
The purpose of this rulemaking is to: (1) revise Regulation Number 12 to make the current Diesel Fleet 
Self-Certification Opacity Program more convenient to operators of vehicles over 26,000 pounds gross 
vehicle weight (GVW); (2) allow law enforcement officers to enforce smoking vehicle statutes and 
regulations more consistently, and (3) make changes to data and secure document handling that will 
expedite on-line registration and renewal for diesel owners. 
Pursuant to HB15-1134, this rulemaking revises the number of model year exemptions for heavy-duty 
diesel vehicles over 26,000 GVW from four to six years. The purpose of this increase in the model year 
exemption period is to lower the regulatory burden placed on Self-Certification Program Fleets and other 
operators of new technology heavy duty trucks, without lessening the overall air quality benefit of the 
program. 
The rulemaking also establishes an on-road opacity standard with no time limit as the Commission 
requested at its January 21, 2016 meeting. This allows law enforcement officers to determine violations of 
opacity standards more consistently, without the need to determine opacity over a period of time. This is 
intended to allow law enforcement officers to better address vehicles emitting high amounts of smoke in 
short bursts. This will result in better enforcement of diesel vehicle tampering statutes. 
Finally, the rulemaking automates data management and secures document handling that will permit Self-
Certification Program fleets to renew their vehicle registrations on-line. On-line registration renewal will 
substantially increase fleet operator convenience. The proposed rule changes also adopt various 
housekeeping and wording changes that reflect advances in diesel technology, as well as clarifying 
existing inspection procedures. 
Changes contained in this rule making will result in at least the same level of air quality improvement as 
the existing periodic opacity testing, at a reduced program cost to fleet operators along with increased 
convenience to fleet operators. Greater smoking vehicle enforcement will also result in motorists being 
exposed to fewer heavily smoking diesel vehicles on the roadway.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
44 
Federal Requirements 
There are currently no federal requirements for the Diesel Opacity Programs. The Diesel opacity 
programs are state-only programs. 
Regulation No 12 regulates both the Fleet Self-Certification Opacity Testing Program (Regulation No 12, 
Part A), and the non-fleet Diesel Opacity Inspection Program (Regulation No. 12, Part B). Both programs 
are aimed at improving air quality though reducing diesel opacity (smoke) from identified high opacity 
producing diesel vehicles. 
Specific Statutory Authority 
Specific statutory authority for the revisions to Regulation No. 12, are contained in sections 42-4-
406(1)(b)(II)(C) and 42-4-414(2)(c), C.R.S., (as amended by HB15-1134 regarding model year 
exemptions); section 42-4-412(2)(a), C.R.S. (regarding on-road opacity standards); and section 42-4-
403(1), C.R.S. (regarding changes to automate inspection data management and secure document 
handling). 
Scientific/Technical Rationale 
This rule is based on reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and sound scientific methodologies. 
Findings pursuant to § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S. 
a. 
These revisions are based on sound science. A technical review of the Self-Certification Program 
was undertaken that utilized sound scientific principles. 
b. 
Evidence in the record demonstrates the rule change will result in demonstrable emission 
reductions. Extending the model year exemption to six years will result in a minimum loss of 
identified excessively smoking heavy-duty vehicles, estimated to be five vehicles. Air quality 
benefit is expected to be achieved through the identification and citation of diesel vehicles 
exhibiting high amounts of smoke in short bursts. This is expected to more than offset any air 
quality loss through extending model year exemptions to six years. 
c. 
Modifications to Regulation Number 12 will result in benefits to public health and to the 
environment. The proposed changes to Regulation Number 12 will result, as stated above, in a 
reduction in smoke and particulate emissions from smoking vehicles at a cost savings to 
government and regulated communities as determined through the economic cost analysis 
conducted. 
d. 
This action is cost effective and provides flexibility. A cost savings is realized for Industry while 
increasing flexibility for fleets in complying with program requirements for the diesel opacity 
programs. 
e. 
The rule change maximizes benefits to air quality in a cost-effective manner. The rule change 
increases air quality benefits of the diesel opacity programs, while reducing program costs.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
45 
X. 
AMENDMENTS TO PARTS A, B, C, and D 
Adopted October 18, 2018 
Basis and Purpose 
The changes to Regulation Number 12 are primarily administrative in nature. They are intended to clarify 
and make more transparent existing regulatory provisions. They correct administrative errors and address 
specific fleet reporting and equipment requirements. 
This rulemaking formalizes certain equipment, procedure, and training requirements including: 1) the 
requirements for reference materials, including a Division-approved current emissions control systems 
application guide at inspection stations in the Diesel Opacity Inspection Program, a practice these 
stations already observe; 2) the requirement for electronic reporting by Diesel Fleet Self-Certification 
Program fleets (electronic reporting already exists and can be conducted through any existing computer 
or smart phone); 3) the requirement for Diesel Opacity Inspection Program stations to possess two 
neutral density filters in case of breakage to one, a prudent practice that is already being practiced; 4) the 
requirement all Diesel Opacity Inspection Program inspectors complete four hours of inspector training 
(this training is currently offered); and 5) correcting an error in the acceptability criteria of aftermarket 
replacement emissions parts. 
Changes to Regulation Number 12 are being made to clarify Division authority to resolve specific 
technical inspection issues and provide technical assistance to the Department of Revenue in performing 
station audits. A new definition, “Trained Observer”, is added to better describe a fleet employee or 
designee that has completed Opacity Inspector training and holds a Certification of Qualification. It also 
clarifies that training is a prerequisite to a Certification of Qualification. 
The rulemaking points out that Diesel Fleet Self-Certification Program fleets are not removed from the 
program due to program violations, though they may be required to have their fleet vehicles inspected 
through the Diesel Opacity Inspection Program. Other clarifications include duties of the Department of 
Revenue and the acceptability of aftermarket parts. 
Additional changes conform GVWR language with statute, correct statutory and internal cites, and correct 
terms to conform with regulatory and statutory language. They simplify syntax and make other 
grammatical corrections. 
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose complies with the requirements of the 
Colorado Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-103, C.R.S., and the statutory authority provided in 
Sections 42-4-401 through 42-4-414, C.R.S. 
Federal Requirements 
The Diesel Fleet Self-Certification and the Diesel Opacity Inspection Programs are state-only programs. 
They are not contained in Colorado’s State Implementation Plan. There are currently no federal 
requirements for either program. Authority for the Diesel Opacity Inspection and Diesel Fleet Self-
Certification Opacity Testing Programs is specifically provided under Colorado law. 
Specific Statutory Authority 
Specific Statutory Authority for the programs are contained in Sections 42-4-401 through 42-4-414, 
C.R.S. 
Scientific/Technical Rationale 
This rule is based on reasonably available validated, reviewed, and sound scientific methodologies.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
46 
Determinations pursuant to § 25-7-110.8, C.R.S. 
The Commission has determined that these changes to Regulation Number 12 comply with the 
requirements of Section 25-7-110.8(a)-(e), C.R.S. 
The revisions are based on sound science. A technical review of the Diesel Opacity Inspection and Diesel 
Fleet Self-Certification Opacity Testing Programs was undertaken that utilized sound scientific 
methodologies. Regulation No 12 regulates both the Diesel Fleet Self-Certification Program (Regulation 
Number 12, Part A), and the Diesel Opacity Inspection Program (Regulation Number 12, Part B). Both 
programs are aimed at improving air quality though reducing diesel opacity (smoke) from identified high 
opacity producing diesel vehicles. Self-certification fleets may also reduce diesel emissions through 
exemplary maintenance practices. 
The changes to Regulation Number 12 are primarily administrative in nature. Modifications to Regulation 
Number 12 will result in continued benefits to public health and to the environment. The rule change 
maximizes benefits to air quality in the most cost-effective manner. The changes to the Regulation 
improve the integrity of the diesel opacity programs through providing additional clarity on the regulatory 
requirements. 
XI. 
AMENDMENTS 
Adopted January 16, 2025 
This Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose complies with the requirements of the 
Colorado Administrative Procedure Act Sections 24-4-103, C.R.S. and the Colorado Air Pollution 
Prevention and Control Act (“the Act”) Sections 25-7-110 and 25-7-110.5, C.R.S. 
Basis 
Regulation Number 12 is designed to reduce emissions from diesel-powered vehicles through the 
identification and repair of vehicles with emission related problems registered and operating within the 
designated program area along Colorado’s Front Range. The adopted revisions to Regulation Number 12 
represent the latest update to the program. The revisions are designed to enhance the emission reduction 
effectiveness of the Diesel Vehicle Inspection and Maintenance Program, and better align the 
requirements of the Diesel Fleet Self Certification Program for diesel fleets with 9 or more vehicles with 
the requirements applicable to other diesel vehicles in the program area. Additionally, the adopted 
revisions delete obsolete and unused regulatory provisions. Finally, the revisions make non-substantive 
changes to clarify existing provisions and correct typographical errors to improve readability. 
Specific Statutory Authority 
The Commission has broad authority to require the inspection and maintenance of diesel-powered 
vehicles pursuant to the provisions 42-4-401, et. seq., C.R.S. The Commission’s specific rulemaking 
authority is set forth at 42-4-403, C.R.S. Additional authority for the development and implementation of 
the program, including the adopted revisions, is set forth at 42-4- 406, 407, 408, 411, 413, and 414, 
C.R.S. and 25-7-144(6), C.R.S. 
Purpose 
The purpose of the revisions is to enhance the emission reduction effectiveness of the Diesel Vehicle 
Inspection and Maintenance Program, and better align the requirements of the Diesel Fleet Self 
Certification Program for diesel fleets with 9 or more vehicles with the requirements applicable to other 
diesel vehicles in the program area. Finally, these additions clarify and slightly reorganize existing 
Regulation Number 12 provisions, and make typographical corrections.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
47 
Federal vs. State-Only Conditions 
In accordance with C.R.S. §§ 25-7-105.1 and 25-7-133(3), the Commission states the revisions to 
Regulation Number 12 adopted in this rulemaking are state-only requirements and are not intended as 
additions or revisions to Colorado’s State Implementation Plan (“SIP”). 
Findings pursuant to C.R.S. 25-7-110.5(5) 
Colorado is not required to have an inspection and maintenance program for diesel-powered vehicles. 
Accordingly, the state-only provisions set forth in Regulation Number 12, including the adopted revisions, 
exceed the requirements of the Federal Clean Air Act (“Federal Act”) and regulations promulgated 
thereunder. The Commission hereby provides the following explanation as required by 25-7-110.5(5): 
(I) 
Any federal requirements that are applicable to this situation with a commentary on those 
requirements; 
There are no federal requirements for a diesel-powered vehicle inspection and maintenance program. 
(II) 
Whether the applicable federal requirements are performance-based or technology-based and 
whether there is any flexibility in those requirements, and if not, why not; 
There are no federal requirements for a diesel-powered vehicle inspection and maintenance program. 
(III) 
Whether the applicable federal requirements specifically address the issues that are of concern to 
Colorado and whether data or information that would reasonably reflect Colorado's concern and 
situation was considered in the federal process that established the federal requirements; 
There are no federal requirements for a diesel-powered vehicle inspection and maintenance program. 
(IV) 
Whether the proposed requirement will improve the ability of the regulated community to comply 
in a more cost effective way by clarifying confusing or potentially conflicting requirements (within 
or cross-media), increasing certainty, or preventing or reducing the need for costly retrofit to meet 
more stringent requirements later; 
While the revisions enhance the emission reduction effectiveness of the diesel-powered vehicle 
inspection and maintenance program and provide greater clarity of program requirements, they are not 
expected to materially improve the cost-effectiveness of the program or reduce future compliance costs. 
(V) 
Whether there is a timing issue which might justify changing the time frame for implementation of 
federal requirement; 
There are no federal requirements for a diesel-powered vehicle inspection and maintenance program. 
(VI) 
Whether the proposed requirement will assist in establishing and maintaining a reasonable 
margin for accommodation of uncertainty and future growth; 
The revisions will assist Colorado’s broader efforts to reduce emissions from motor vehicles. It is not 
clear, however, whether reductions from the program will be strictly necessary to ensure compliance with 
federal ambient air quality standards or state emission reduction goals.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
48 
(VII) 
Whether the proposed requirement establishes or maintains reasonable equity in the 
requirements for various sources; 
Under the Federal Act, gasoline-powered vehicles within the Front Range are required to undergo 
periodic inspection and if needed repair. While there is no federal requirement for Colorado to have a 
diesel vehicle program, the state-only program set forth in Regulation Number 12, maintains equity 
between gasoline and diesel powered vehicle within the area. 
(VIII) 
Whether others would face increased costs if a more stringent rule is not enacted; 
It is possible, but not clear, that other sources would face increased costs if the revisions were not 
adopted. 
(IX) 
Whether the proposed requirement includes procedural, reporting, or monitoring requirements 
that are different from applicable federal requirements and, if so, why and what the “compelling 
reason” is for different procedural, reporting, or monitoring requirements; 
There are no federal requirements for a diesel-powered vehicle inspection and maintenance program. 
(X) 
Whether demonstrated technology is available to comply with the proposed requirement; 
Existing and demonstrated diesel vehicle technology allows subject vehicles to meet the standards set 
forth in the adopted revisions. 
(XI) 
Whether the proposed requirement will contribute to the prevention of pollution or address a 
potential problem and represent a more cost-effective environmental gain; 
The requirements will contribute to the prevention of air pollution from the diesel vehicle fleet subject to 
the program. 
(XII) 
Whether an alternative rule, including a no-action alternative, would address the required 
standard. 
While maintaining the status quo, or adopting less stringent revisions, is an option, such a course of 
action would result in a less protective program and more emissions from the diesel fleet subject to 
Regulation Number 12. 
Findings pursuant to C.R.S. § 25-7-110.8 
a. 
These rules are based upon reasonably available, validated, reviewed, and sound 
scientific methodologies, and the Commission has considered all information submitted 
by interested parties. 
b. 
Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall result in a demonstrable 
reduction of emissions from the diesel-powered vehicle fleet. 
c. 
Evidence in the record supports the finding that the rules shall bring about reductions in 
risks to human health and the environment that justify the costs to implement and comply 
with the rules. 
d. 
The rules are the most cost-effective to achieve the necessary and desired results, 
provide the regulated community flexibility, and achieve the necessary reduction in air 
pollution.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1001-15 
Air Quality Control Commission 
 
49 
e. 
The rule will maximize the air quality benefits of regulation in the most cost-effective 
manner. 
Further, these revisions will include any typographical, grammatical and formatting errors throughout the 
regulation. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule, Part D VII eff. 12/15/2011. 
Part A I.A-B, I.D, I.F-I.G, II.A.2.i, III.B, V.A, V.B.1, VI; Part D VIII eff. 09/30/2013. 
Entire rule, Part D IX eff. 10/15/2016. 
Entire rule, Part D X eff. 11/30/2018. 
Part A, Part B I.B.37, I.D.2.b-f, II.C-E, III, IV.A, V-VII, Part C, Part D XI eff. 03/17/2025.
