---
id: "5_CCR_1005-1"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "5 CCR 1005-1"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=6010&fileName=5%20CCR%201005-1&type=pdf"
---

#### 5_CCR_1005-1. 5 CCR 1005-1

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
Laboratory Services Division 
ENVIRONMENTAL LABORATORY CERTIFICATION 
5 CCR 1005-1 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
1.1 
Purpose and Scope. 
The rules and regulations establish the minimum standards for environmental laboratories wishing 
certification to test samples under the Colorado Primary Drinking Water Regulations, and federal Safe 
Drinking Water Act (SDWA). Certification of laboratories is granted independently for each of the following 
testing areas: chemistry, microbiology, and radiochemistry. Under the Colorado Revised Statutes, Section 
25-1.5-101(e), laboratory approval and certification is delegated to the Department. 
Through the rules and regulations, the Department affords laboratories certification for state 
requirements, federal requirements and interstate recognition (reciprocity) by adopting the SDWA 
standards in their entirety. The rules and regulations provide for reliable, accurate, and comparable 
laboratory data for public and environmental health monitoring and safety decisions. 
1.2 
Definitions. 
“Certification” means official Department approval of a laboratory meeting SDWA standards. Evidence of 
certification will be a document stating; the laboratory is certified by the Department in one or more of the 
following testing areas: chemistry, microbiology, and/or radiochemistry. 
“Certifying Authority” means the Territorial, State or Federal agency having responsibility and 
accountability for environmental laboratory certification. 
“Colorado Primary Drinking Water Regulations” means the Colorado Code of Regulations 5 CCR 1003-1 
promulgated by the State Board of Health, pursuant to Part I of Title 25, Colorado Revised Statutes 
(C.R.S.), 1973. 
“Department” means the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, Laboratory Services 
Division. 
“Laboratory Method” means an approved and defined technical procedure for performing a test. 
“Primary certification” means approval of a laboratory based directly on Department certification authority 
and inspection processes. 
“Proficiency Testing” means the determination of laboratory performance by evaluation of analytical 
results on an inter-laboratory comparison sample from an approved provider. 
“Reciprocity Certification” means approval of a laboratory based on another certification/accreditation 
authority's findings. 
“Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA)” means the enabling legislation under 42 U.S.C. 300f et seq. (Public 
Law 93-523) that requires EPA to protect the quality of drinking water by setting maximum allowable 
contaminant levels, monitor, and bring enforcement action for noncompliance. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-1 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
2 
“United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)” means the federal agency with responsibility for 
the protection of public health and for safeguarding and improving the natural environment upon which 
human life depends. 
1.3 
Certification of Environmental Laboratories 
1.3.1 
All environmental laboratories certified under the rules and regulations will meet: 
1.3.1.1 SDWA standards specified in the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 
“Manual for the Certification of Laboratories Analyzing Drinking Water” Fifth Edition, EPA 
815-R-05-004, January 2005, and supplement 1 (EPA 815-F-08-006, June 2008) and 
supplement 2 (EPA 815-F-12-006, November 2012) 
1.3.1.2 Referenced materials are available for public inspection during normal business hours at 
the Laboratory Services Division (LSD), 8100 Lowry Blvd., Denver, CO 80230 and at the 
Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, 
Denver, Colorado 80222-1530. Certified copies of the referenced material will be 
provided at cost upon written request to the LSD Director at the Lowry address. Later 
amendments or editions to these standards are not included. 
1.3.2 
Each laboratory wishing to obtain certification shall apply to the Department. 
1.3.3 
Application for certification shall be completed on forms furnished by the Department and shall 
contain all the information required by the form and any accompanying instructions. 
1.3.4 
Reapplications shall be submitted annually, at least 90 days before expiration of existing 
certification to assure continuous certification. 
1.3.5 
Laboratories holding letters or certificates of approval on the effective date of these regulations 
will remain certified until the expiration date of those approvals, unless voluntarily withdrawn, 
revoked, suspended or limited before that expiration date. 
1.3.6 
Laboratory certifications will be issued annually based on submission of complete and acceptable 
application documents, and successful participation in proficiency test programs. 
1.3.7 
Laboratories may request primary or reciprocity certification. 
1.3.7.1 Primary certification will be granted to laboratories requesting the Department to perform 
the onsite inspection required to determine compliance with applicable standards. 
Routine inspections will be announced at least five days before the inspection date. 
Complaint inspections may be unannounced. 
1.3.7.2 Reciprocity certification will be granted to laboratories requesting Department approval 
based on another state agency accrediting or certifying authority's approval and 
inspection process. Laboratories granted certification based upon reciprocity must 
maintain current certification with another state agency accrediting or certifying authority 
and shall report any changes in status to the Department within 30 calendar days of 
occurrence. 
1.4 
Denial, Suspension, Limitation or Revocation of Certification. 
The Department may deny, suspend, limit or revoke the certification of a laboratory based on: 
1.4.1 
“Criteria and Procedures for Downgrading/Revoking Certification Status” specified in the United 
States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) “Manual for the Certification of Laboratories

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-1 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
3 
Analyzing Drinking Water”, Fifth Edition, EPA 815-R-05-004, January 2005, and supplement 1 
(EPA 815-F-08-006, June 2008) and supplement 2 (EPA 815-F-12-006, November 2012).  
1.4.2 
Failure to comply with the certification requirements contained within this rule. 
1.5 
Notification of Violations, Hearings and Determinations. 
All parties shall comply with the statutory requirements of the Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-
4-105(7), C.R.S. Judicial review shall be in accordance with section 25-1-113, C.R.S. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 12/15/2014.
