---
id: "5_CCR_1005-2"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "5 CCR 1005-2"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=11691&fileName=5%20CCR%201005-2&type=pdf"
---

#### 5_CCR_1005-2. 5 CCR 1005-2

1 
COLORADO DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
Laboratory Services Division 
TESTING FOR ALCOHOL AND OTHER DRUGS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Adopted by the Board of Health on September 18, 2024 
Part 1. General 
1.1 
Purpose and Scope 
This rule establishes minimum standards for certification and approval of entities and processes 
used for alcohol and drug testing. This rule is applicable to: samples taken from subjects driving 
under the influence, driving while impaired, driving with excessive alcohol content; vehicular 
assaults and vehicular homicides involving an operator while under the influence of alcohol or 
one or more drugs or both; the testing of samples of blood or other bodily substances from the 
bodies of pilots in command, motorboat or sailboat operators in command, or drivers and 
pedestrians suspected of being impaired by alcohol and/or drugs who die within four hours after 
involvement in a crash involving a motor vehicle, a motorboat, a sailboat or an aircraft; 
consumption of alcohol by underage persons; and records related to any of these situations 
listed. 
1.2 
The Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment has determined that results obtained 
from the certified EBAT instrument are scientifically accurate, precise, and analytically reliable 
when the certified EBAT instrument is properly operated as described in this rule. 
Recommendations made to the state board of health are evidence-based through analytic testing 
and evaluation conducted by the department. 
1.3 
Evidential Breath Alcohol Testing (EBAT) certified facilities, instructors, and operators will operate 
under Parts 2 through 4 of these rules and regulations. All approved EBAT facilities and certified 
instructors and operators performing direct evidential breath alcohol testing must comply with all 
applicable requirements in this rule. 
1.4 
Testing of blood alcohol, blood drug, urine drug, and postmortem samples operate under Parts 5 
through 9 of these rules and regulations. All certified forensic toxicology laboratories performing 
testing in the categories of blood alcohol, blood drug, urine drug, and postmortem testing must 
comply with all applicable requirements in this rule. 
1.5 
Definitions 
“Analytical Non-Conformance” – refers to a result that has been reported by the certified 
laboratory that exceeds its established criteria of acceptability resulting in repeat analysis 
requiring amended reporting. 
 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
2 
“Appropriate Clinical or Public Safety Facility” – provides for the health and safety of a person 
whose blood is collected (subject) and meets the following criteria: 1) provide for the washing or 
cleansing of hands of the blood collection personnel, 2) provide a comfortable chair for the 
subject with arm supports to assure the elbow remains straight and both arms are accessible to 
the blood collection personnel, 3) take precautions to assure the subject does not fall out of the 
chair, 4) provide for cot or other reclining surfaces for subjects who prefer to lie down or who have 
adverse response to the blood collection procedures, 5) provide for the adverse response to 
blood collection by providing procedures and equipment for subjects who become faint, 
nauseous, vomit, bleed excessively, or convulse including the provision of drinking water, and 6) 
provide for the cleaning and disinfection of the blood collection area. 
“Approved Facility” – any location that meets the requirements of these regulations and which is 
approved by the Department to house the certified EBAT instrumentation. 
“Certification” – the official approval by the Department of an Evidential Breath Alcohol Test 
(EBAT) instrument, instructor, operator, or forensic toxicology laboratory to function under these 
rules and regulations. 
“Certified EBAT Instructor” – an employee of a law enforcement agency or the Colorado 
Department of Public Health and Environment who meets the requirements of Section 2.3 et seq. 
of these regulations. 
“Certified EBAT Instrument” – the instrumentation approved for use by the Department for 
performing evidential breath alcohol testing in approved facilities by certified instructors and 
operators in order to determine the alcohol content in a subject’s breath for evidentiary purposes 
as identified in Section 42-4-1301, C.R.S. 
“Certified EBAT Operator” – an employee of a law enforcement agency or the Colorado 
Department of Public Health and Environment who meets the requirements of Section 2.1 et seq. 
of these regulations. 
“Certified Laboratory” – a forensic toxicology laboratory certified by the Department to perform 
analytical testing of bodily fluids for alcohol or other drugs in the categories of blood alcohol, 
blood drug, urine drug, or postmortem testing. 
“Department” – refers to The Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, Laboratory 
Services Division. 
“Discovery Packet” – refers to records requested for litigation purposes that include sufficient 
material to allow independent review by a qualified toxicologist. The records must include when 
applicable, but are not limited to; the request of analysis, chain of custody documents, test 
subject analytical data, calibration, standard, quality control data from the subject analytic run, 
limits of quantitation (LOQ), limits of detection (LOD), analyst curriculum vitae (CV), and the 
standard operating procedure used during the analysis. 
“DUI” – refers to the term Driving Under the Influence of alcohol and/or other drugs as defined by 
Section 42-4-1301(1)(f), C.R.S. 
“DUI Packet” – refers to the reporting documentation produced by the certified EBAT instrument 
that must be included by the certified EBAT instructor or operator. This must include but is not 
limited to the following: the completed subject EBAT and any Exception Messages which may 
have been encountered during the subject test attempts. 
“DWAI” – refers to the term Driving While Ability Impaired by alcohol and/or other drugs as 
defined by Section 42-4-1301(1)(g), C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
3 
“Evidential” or “Evidentiary” – refers to a sample which, when tested, gives rise to test results that 
are sufficiently reliable to be admissible as evidence in a court of law. 
“Evidential Breath Alcohol Test (EBAT)” – is an evidentiary breath alcohol test performed using a 
certified evidential breath alcohol testing instrument approved by the Department as described by 
Section 42-4-1301, C.R.S. 
“Exception Message” – is the term used for a report generated by the certified EBAT instrument 
whenever an Evidential Breath Alcohol Test (EBAT) is unable to be successfully completed. 
“Internal Standard” – refers to a reference material that has similar chemical and physical 
properties to the analyte being measured and is added at a known concentration to a sample 
prior to testing. 
“Key Management” – refers to personnel designated as top management and additional 
personnel who do not have laboratory wide authority but are “key” to the laboratory providing 
testing services which may include the laboratory director, technical personnel, or any other 
designated qualified individual who has supervisory responsibilities for the scientific aspects of 
the laboratory. 
“Laboratory Director” – the individual meeting the qualification requirements specified in Part 5 
and Part 9 of these rules who is responsible for the overall operation and results reported by the 
laboratory. 
“Limit of Detection (LOD)” – the lowest concentration or amount of an analyte that can be reliably 
shown to be present or measured under defined conditions and is derived by adding three 
standard deviations to the true value of the blank. 
“Limit of Quantitation (LOQ)” – the concentration at which quantitative results can be reported 
with a high degree of confidence and is derived by adding ten standard deviations to the true 
value of the blank or administratively defined in terms of the lowest concentration of the lowest 
calibrator used in the analytic run. 
“Proficiency Testing (PT)” – The evaluation of unknown specimens which determines target 
alcohol or drug values for those unknown specimens that is manufactured by a provider 
accredited to the International Standards Organization (ISO/IEC 17043). A single evaluation is 
commonly referred to as a PT event. 
“Representative of a Certified Laboratory” – any employee of a certified laboratory or a courier 
employed by or contracted by the certified laboratory to transport specimens for the certified 
laboratory. 
“Satisfactory PT Performance” – results scored from an individual PT event that meet or exceed 
the minimum score allowable to be considered passing. 
“Successful PT Performance” – ongoing satisfactory PT performance in multiple PT events that 
meet or exceed the minimum score allowable to be considered passing. 
“Tampering” – to meddle with the certified EBAT instrument especially for the purpose of altering 
test results, damaging or misusing the instrument either by intentional or unintentional means. 
“Technical Personnel” - individuals who are engaged in any aspect of the testing of samples and 
reporting of results under the supervision of the laboratory director or the laboratory director’s 
designee.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
4 
“Unsatisfactory PT Performance” – results scored from an individual PT event that are scored 
below the minimum allowable to be considered passing. 
“Unsuccessful PT Performance” – two consecutive unsatisfactory individual PT events or 2 out of 
3 unsatisfactory individual PT events that are scored below the minimum allowable to be 
considered passing. 
Part 2 Certification Requirements for Operators and Instructors Performing Evidential Breath 
Alcohol Testing (EBAT) 
2.1 
Operators seeking initial EBAT certification or EBAT recertification by the department must meet 
the following criteria: 
2.1.1 
To initially be certified as an EBAT operator an individual must: 
2.1.1.1 Be currently employed by a law enforcement agency or the Department, and 
2.1.1.2 Attend and successfully complete the Department’s eight (8) hour EBAT operator 
certification course, and 
2.1.1.3 Successfully complete the Department’s EBAT operator comprehensive 
practical, and 
2.1.1.4 Successfully pass the Department’s EBAT operator exam with a score of 80% or 
greater. 
2.1.1.5 Upon successful completion of the Department’s operator certification course, 
the certified EBAT operator will be issued an operator identification number 
which may only be used by the certified EBAT operator to whom it was issued. 
2.1.2 
To maintain active certification status, a certified EBAT operator must complete the 
following recertification requirements: 
2.1.2.1 Successfully perform and complete a recertification EBAT within a 180-day 
period, and 
2.1.2.2 Annually – Successfully complete the Department’s certified EBAT operator 
recertification refresher course. 
2.1.2.3 Upon successful completion of the Department’s operator recertification 
requirements, the certified EBAT operator’s identification number active status 
will be updated and available for use during the next certification period. 
2.1.3 
The certified EBAT operator certificate issued by the Department may serve as evidence 
of certification if the operator has maintained an active certification. 
2.2 
If the certified EBAT operator fails to meet the EBAT recertification requirements found in this 
part, the Department will; 
2.2.1 
Decertify the EBAT operator, and 
2.2.2 
Deactivate the EBAT operator identification number used to access the certified EBAT 
instrument, and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
5 
2.2.3 
Maintain the EBAT operator in an inactive status until the EBAT operator certification 
requirements found in Part 2.1 are met. 
2.3 
Instructors seeking initial EBAT certification or EBAT recertification by the Department must meet 
the following criteria: 
2.3.1 
To initially be certified as an EBAT instructor an individual must: 
2.3.1.1 Be currently employed by a law enforcement agency or the Department, and 
2.3.1.2 Be a currently certified EBAT operator in active status, and 
2.3.1.3 Attend and successfully complete the Department’s sixteen (16) hour EBAT 
instructor certification course, and 
2.3.1.4 Successfully complete the Department’s EBAT instructor comprehensive 
practical, and 
2.3.1.5 Successfully pass the Department’s EBAT instructor exam with a score of 80% 
or greater. 
2.3.1.6 Upon successful completion of the Department’s instructor certification course, 
the certified EBAT instructor will be issued an instructor identification number 
which may only be used by the certified EBAT instructor to whom it was issued. 
2.3.2 
To maintain active status, a certified EBAT instructor must complete the following 
recertification requirements: 
2.3.2.1 Biennially - Participate in assisting the Department with teaching, at a minimum, 
one EBAT operator certification course, and 
2.3.2.2 Annually - Successfully complete the Department’s certified EBAT instructor 
recertification refresher course. 
2.3.3 
A certified EBAT instructor in active status is also recognized as a certified EBAT 
operator and may perform testing. 
2.3.4 
The certified EBAT instructor certificate issued by the Department may also serve as 
evidence of certification if the instructor has maintained an active certification. 
2.4 
For any certified EBAT instructor who does not meet the EBAT recertification requirements found 
in this part the Department will; 
2.4.1 
Decertify the EBAT instructor; and 
2.4.2 
Deactivate the EBAT instructor certification identification number, used to access to the 
certified EBAT instrument; and 
2.4.3 
Maintain the EBAT instructor in an inactive status until one of the following three 
recertification criteria are met:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
6 
2.4.3.1 Within 30-days after expiration of the EBAT instructor certification expiration 
date, the inactive instructor must successfully complete a recertification evidential 
breath alcohol test to regain an active status as a certified EBAT operator. The 
certified EBAT operator must meet the requirements found at Part 2.1.2 in order 
to maintain certification; or 
2.4.3.2 After 30-days from expiration of the EBAT instructor certification expiration date, 
the inactive instructor must meet the EBAT operator certification requirements 
found at Part 2.1; or 
2.4.3.3 The EBAT instructor meets the requirements found at Part 2.3 of the rule. 
2.5 
EBAT instructors or operators returning from active military service may reactivate their 
certification status by completing the following: 
2.5.1 
Provide documentation of active duty status to the Department, (period of absence must 
not exceed 2 years), and 
2.5.2 
Successfully pass the EBAT instructor or operator certification exam with a score of 80% 
or greater, and 
2.5.3 
Successfully perform and complete a recertification EBAT (for EBAT operators only). 
2.5.4 
Upon successful completion of the recertification requirements in this Part, the certified 
EBAT instructor or operator identification number will be updated to an active status and 
become available for use during the next certification period. 
2.5.5 
The certified EBAT instructor or operator must meet the requirements found in this Part in 
order to maintain an active certification status. 
Part 3 Requirements for Evidential Breath Alcohol Testing (EBAT) Facilities 
3.1 
Standards for approval of permanent, temporary and mobile Evidential Breath Alcohol Testing 
(EBAT) facilities. 
3.1.1 
Evidential Breath Alcohol Test(s) must be conducted only in facilities that have been 
approved by the Department. 
3.1.2 
Department standards for approval of EBAT facilities are specified in Part 3 of this rule. 
3.1.3 
EBAT facilities meeting the standards of performance as specified in Part 3 of this rule 
may be approved. 
3.1.4 
Onsite inspections of permanent, temporary and mobile EBAT facilities must be 
performed prior to initial approval and once per calendar year thereafter by Department 
personnel. 
3.1.4.1 Facility inspection reports will be sent by the Department to the facility within 15 
days of the inspection date. 
3.1.4.2 When deficiencies are cited in a facility inspection report, a plan of correction 
must be received by the Department for review and approval within 15 days of 
receipt of the facility inspection report by the agency. 
3.1.5 
Initial approval – permanent, temporary, and mobile EBAT facilities.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
7 
3.1.5.1 A facility representative must submit a written request to the Department for initial 
approval of an EBAT facility, which should include justification for EBAT 
instrumentation, if applicable. The request will be in the form and manner 
required by the Department and must include: 
3.1.5.1.1 
Acknowledgement from the facility representative that the 
requirements found in Part 3 have been reviewed prior to requesting 
approval. 
3.1.5.1.2 
Documentation from a certified electrician verifying the power to 
the certified EBAT instrument is on its own dedicated power circuit. 
3.1.5.1.3 
Verification from the facility representative that a dedicated and 
active data line is installed and available for communications by the 
certified EBAT instrument. 
3.1.5.2 Upon receipt of the initial facility approval request, Department personnel will 
review the submitted documentation, schedule an onsite inspection to verify 
compliance with the requirements found in Part 3 prior to approval. 
3.1.6 
The Department will perform an onsite inspection at an EBAT facility when any of the 
following occur: 
3.1.6.1 The EBAT facility is seeking initial approval, or 
3.1.6.2 The approved EBAT facility requests relocation of the certified EBAT instrument 
either temporarily or permanently within the facility, or 
3.1.6.3 A new EBAT facility is being constructed that will house the certified EBAT 
instrument, or 
3.1.6.4 A complaint is received by the Department that requires an onsite inspection to 
verify compliance. 
3.2 
Evidential Breath Alcohol Testing (EBAT) facility requirements 
3.2.1 
Instrument power requirements 
3.2.1.1 Alternating current (AC) line voltage of 120 volts, 60 hertz (Hz) grounded outlet 
on a dedicated circuit. 
3.2.1.2 20 ampere maximum circuit breaker. 
3.2.1.3 Voltage 120 +/- 12v (108v – 132v). 
3.2.1.4 Grounded outlet. 
3.2.1.5 An adequate surge protection device must be placed between the EBAT 
instrumentation and the grounded outlet. 
3.2.2 
Facility environmental requirements 
3.2.2.1 The temperature of the room where the EBAT instrumentation is operated must 
be maintained between (18.0 – 25.0) degrees Celsius

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
8 
3.2.2.2 The relative humidity of the room where the EBAT instrumentation is operated 
must be maintained between (10% - 90%). 
3.2.2.3 The EBAT instrumentation room must have adequate lighting. 
3.2.2.4 The area around and under the EBAT instrumentation must be free of dust, dirt 
and kept orderly. 
3.2.2.5 The EBAT instrumentation must be placed on a solid and adequate work surface. 
3.2.2.6 The room where the EBAT instrumentation is located must receive adequate 
ventilation. 
3.2.2.7 The ventilation to the room where the EBAT instrumentation is located must 
prevent automobile emissions from being introduced. 
3.2.2.8 The room where the EBAT instrumentation is located must not be used to store 
cleaning compounds or volatile chemicals. 
3.2.2.9 The room where the EBAT instrumentation is located must remain secure and 
not readily accessible to unauthorized personnel. 
3.2.2.10 
The approved facility must have an adequate space, equipment, and 
personnel to maintain the EBAT instrumentation and supplies. 
3.2.3 
EBAT facility documents 
3.2.3.1 The EBAT instrument calibration certificate must be posted next to the 
instrument. 
3.2.3.2 The EBAT instrument Exception Message guide must be posted next to the 
instrument. 
3.2.3.3 Corrective actions taken by the certified EBAT instructor or operator are 
appropriate and timely when Exception Messages are encountered. 
3.2.3.4 The EBAT instrumentation records applicable to the agency must be retained by 
the approved facility for a minimum of 5 years. 
3.2.4 
EBAT instrumentation 
3.2.4.1 The approved facility must provide and have available an adequate supply of 
mouth pieces. 
3.2.4.2 The approved facility must have available an adequate supply of standard 
simulator solution issued by the Department. 
3.2.4.3 The standard simulator solution is checked routinely to ensure calibration checks 
are within the acceptable range, and the standard simulator solution is changed 
as needed and completed correctly by a certified EBAT instructor. 
3.2.4.4 EBAT instrumentation and supplies must be properly maintained, stored and 
available to authorized personnel.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
9 
3.2.4.5 The EBAT instrumentation is being operated in the location it was approved for 
within the approved facility. 
3.2.4.6 The EBAT instrumentation must maintain consistent communications with the 
Department through the approved facility's active data line. A certified EBAT 
instructor should routinely verify this connection and troubleshoot with the 
approved facility's IT designee and the Department. 
3.2.4.7 The approved facility must maintain a functional printer approved by the 
Department to be used with the EBAT instrumentation. 
3.2.4.8 The approved facility may be held responsible for lost, damaged, tampered with 
and/or mismanaged equipment/instrumentation owned by the Department, at the 
approved facility's expense. 
Part 4 Evidential Breath Alcohol Testing (EBAT) - Collection and Testing Procedures 
4.1 
This part establishes the minimum standards for collection and testing of evidential breath alcohol 
samples that include: 
4.1.1 
A certified EBAT instructor or operator to perform the test who is in an active status 
meeting the requirements found in Part 2, and 
4.1.2 
An approved EBAT facility where the test is to be conducted meeting the requirements 
found in Part 3, and 
4.1.3 
A certified EBAT instrument used to perform the test. 
4.1.3.1 Evidential breath specimens must be analyzed using a certified EBAT instrument 
approved for use by the Department. Certification of the EBAT instrument will be 
based on scientific standards of performance established by the Department. 
4.1.3.2 The Department must certify each EBAT instrument initially and annually 
thereafter. 
4.1.3.3 The Department will issue a certificate for each certified EBAT instrument after 
initial certification and after each annual certification. The certificate will reflect 
the certified EBAT instrument serial number and the inclusive dates for the 
certification period. 
4.1.3.4 Every EBAT sequence must include an assayed reference standard(s) with a 
known ethanol concentration of 0.100 grams of alcohol/210 liters of breath that 
brackets the subject’s breath samples. The assayed reference standard(s) target 
value(s) is 0.100 grams of alcohol/210 liters of breath and must fall within a range 
of (0.090 – 0.110 grams of alcohol/210 liters of breath). 
4.1.3.4.1 
The results of the assayed reference standard(s) must agree 
with each other within ±10% during the calibration checks. 
4.1.3.4.2 
If the correlation between calibration checks is not within ±10%, 
the instrument will discontinue the test sequence and print a “No 
Calibration Correlation” Exception Message. 
4.1.3.5 For each EBAT, the results of the two subject samples must agree with each 
other within 0.020 grams of alcohol/210 liters of breath.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
10 
4.1.3.5.1 
If the 0.020 grams of alcohol/210 liters of breath correlation is not 
obtained with the subject samples, the instrument will discontinue the 
test sequence and print a “No .02 Agreement” Exception Message. 
4.1.3.5.2 
When a “No .02 Agreement” Exception Message is obtained, the 
certified EBAT instructor or operator must repeat the 20-minute 
deprivation period prior to retesting the subject. 
4.1.3.6 The two subject breath samples must meet the minimum measurement 
requirements in order to obtain a result. Samples not meeting the minimum 
sample requirements may result in an “Invalid Sample” Exception Message. 
4.1.3.6.1 
If an “Invalid Sample” Exception Message is obtained, the 
certified EBAT instructor or operator must repeat the 20-minute 
deprivation period prior to retesting the subject. 
4.2 
Pre-Analytic EBAT requirements include: 
4.2.1 
Unless otherwise provided by law, at the request of the subject, the subject must be 
given a choice of which type of evidential chemical test (evidential breath or blood 
alcohol) they prefer to take to determine the alcohol concentration in their body, or the 
choice to refuse either evidential chemical test. Nothing in this rule is intended to exempt 
or exonerate an individual from the penalties proscribed in Sections 42-4-1301.1 and 42- 
4-1301.2, C.R.S., or any other relevant law, for the failure to submit to such test. 
4.2.2 
Ensure the certified EBAT instrument is in the “Ready” mode. If the certified EBAT 
instrument is in “Not Ready” mode, wait until the instrument completes the warm-up 
period prior to initiating any testing. 
4.2.3 
Completion of a 20-minute deprivation period must be conducted at the approved EBAT 
facility by a certified EBAT instructor or operator who is in an active status, and the 20-
minute deprivation period must include; 
4.2.3.1 Removal of any foreign material from the subject’s mouth cavity that is not 
permanent in nature, prior to starting the 20-minute deprivation period; and 
4.2.3.2 Depriving the subject access to foreign material that may be introduced into the 
mouth cavity during the 20-minute deprivation period; and 
4.2.3.3 Observing the subject for signs of belching, regurgitation, or intake of any foreign 
material into the mouth cavity during the 20-minute deprivation period. If such 
observations occur, the 20-minute deprivation period must be repeated under the 
same conditions prior to testing. 
4.2.4 
Entry of the certified EBAT instructor or operator information into the certified EBAT 
instrument. 
4.2.5 
Entry of the arresting officer information into the certified EBAT instrument. 
4.2.6 
Entry of the subject information into the certified EBAT instrument to include the start time 
of the 20-minute deprivation period. 
4.3 
Analytic EBAT requirements include:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
11 
4.3.1 
Providing the subject instruction for delivery of a breath sample that contains end-
expiratory air from the lungs. 
4.3.2 
Starting the test sequence and following the test instructions displayed by the certified 
EBAT instrument. 
4.3.3 
Providing a new mouthpiece with each breath sample provided by the subject. 
4.3.4 
Observing the subject through completion of the second breath sample to look for signs 
of belching, regurgitation, or intake of any foreign material into the mouth cavity. If such 
observations occur, the test sequence must be discontinued by the certified EBAT 
instructor or operator and another 20-minute deprivation period must be repeated under 
the same conditions prior to retesting. 
4.3.5 
Removal of the subject from the area in close proximity to the certified EBAT instrument 
during the two-minute period between breath samples in order to prevent tampering of 
the instrument during the test sequence. 
4.4 
Post-Analytic EBAT requirements include: 
4.4.1 
The certified EBAT instructor or operator must sign the completed EBAT report 
attestation statement indicating the test was performed in compliance with the 
procedures set forth by the Department and as prescribed by this rule. 
4.4.2 
The certified EBAT instructor or operator must review the final report(s) for completeness. 
4.4.3 
The certified EBAT instructor or operator must include all printouts generated by the 
certified EBAT instrument with reporting documentation to include any associated 
Exception Message(s) (if applicable) that may have been encountered during the subject 
test attempt(s). 
4.4.4 
All printouts generated from the certified EBAT instrument for the subject must be 
included in the DUI packet as defined in Part 1.5. 
4.4.5 
All certified EBAT instrumentation records must be retained for a minimum of 5 years by 
either the certified EBAT facility or the Department as applicable. 
Part 5. Certification Requirements for Forensic Toxicology Laboratories 
5.1 
Laboratory Analysis of Blood, Urine and Post Mortem Specimens 
5.1.1 
Laboratories must be certified by the Department to provide analysis. Participation in the 
Forensic Toxicology Laboratory certification program is based upon either successful 
onsite annual inspection for non-accredited labs, or, ongoing accreditation status for 
accredited labs, in addition to successful proficiency testing performance in the category 
or categories the laboratory is certified in and ongoing compliance with Parts 5 through 9 
of this rule. 
5.1.2 
Laboratories seeking certification that are accredited by a nationally or internationally 
recognized accreditation organization that includes the scope of forensic toxicology may 
elect to forgo the annual onsite inspection as long as accreditation remains active, and, 
the biennial inspection performed by the accrediting organization includes review of the 
specialty of toxicology.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
12 
5.1.3 
Accredited laboratories requesting certification from the Department must provide the 
Department a copy of the accrediting organizations most recent and final biennial 
inspection report within 30-days of receipt of accreditation in the scope of forensic 
toxicology in addition to any accepted plan of correction submitted to the accrediting 
organization by the laboratory. 
5.1.4 
The Department will perform an onsite inspection of an accredited laboratory in the event 
that the specialty of toxicology is not reviewed by the accrediting organization during the 
biennial inspection. 
5.1.5 
Laboratories certified by the Department who send samples to a reference laboratory for 
testing must send those samples to a forensic toxicology laboratory certified by the 
Department. 
5.1.6 
Laboratories may be certified to perform tests for one or more of the following categories: 
blood alcohol, blood drug, urine drug, and postmortem testing. 
5.1.7 
Laboratories must meet standards of performance as established by these regulations. 
Standards of performance include: personnel qualifications, standard operating 
procedure manual, analytical process, proficiency testing, quality assurance, quality 
control, laboratory security, chain of custody, specimen retention, space, records, and 
result reporting. 
5.1.8 
Laboratory inspections must be performed prior to initial certification and annually 
thereafter by Department personnel as established by this rule. A laboratory meeting the 
certification requirements of these regulations will be issued a certificate. Recertification 
shall be required annually and will be effective each July 1. 
5.2 
Initial Application 
5.2.1 
Laboratory Directors requesting certification of their laboratory must submit to the 
Department a completed application. The application will be in the form and manner 
required by the Department and includes: laboratory name, laboratory director, facility 
address, laboratory correspondence information, and analytical categories for which the 
laboratory requests certification. 
5.2.2 
The Department will acknowledge the request and provide a copy of this rule to the 
laboratory. 
5.2.3 
To be certified, laboratories must demonstrate compliance with all applicable 
requirements in Parts 5 through 9 and participate in an initial onsite inspection. The 
onsite inspection may be waived for accredited laboratories so long as the requirements 
at 5.1.3 are satisfied as determined by the Department at its sole discretion. 
5.3 
Application for Continued Certification 
5.3.1 
Annually the Laboratory Director must request to be considered for continued certification 
by providing a completed application to the Department no later than June 1. The 
application will be in the form and manner required by the Department and will include: 
laboratory name, laboratory director, facility address, laboratory correspondence 
information, analytical categories for which the laboratory requests certification, and 
caseload totals. 
5.3.2 
Laboratories must be recertified annually starting July 1, and certification will be for a 
period of 1 year.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
13 
5.3.3 
Laboratories must maintain a listing of all analytical methods used by the laboratory and 
all analytes tested and reported by the laboratory. The laboratory must provide this listing 
to the Department. 
5.3.4 
To maintain certification, laboratories shall meet all applicable requirements found in 
Parts 5 through 9. Non-accredited laboratories or accredited laboratories identified in 
5.1.4 must participate in an annual onsite inspection. 
5.4 
General Requirements 
5.4.1 
In addition to the laboratory’s application, the laboratory must provide an updated listing 
of all technical personnel engaged in testing to the Department. The listing will be in the 
form and manner required by the Department. 
5.4.2 
Prior to independently analyzing samples, technical personnel must demonstrate 
acceptable performance on precision, accuracy, specificity, reportable ranges, blanks, 
and unknown challenge samples (proficiency samples or internally generated quality 
controls). The laboratory must have a system to evaluate and document the competency 
of technical personnel as specified in Part 9. 
5.4.3 
The laboratory must notify the Department in writing within thirty days of any changes 
pertaining to laboratory location and/or key management. 
5.4.4 
The Laboratory Director is directly responsible for the accuracy of the tests performed, 
the accuracy of the reports issued, and adherence to the applicable requirements in this 
rule. 
5.4.5 
The laboratory must have adequate space, equipment, materials, and use reference 
materials from a manufacturer accredited to the International Standards Organization 
(ISO) requirements for certified reference materials and certified reference standards 
(ISO/IEC 17034 when available). 
5.4.6 
The laboratory must establish and adhere to written Standard Operating Procedures 
(SOPs) that contain complete descriptions of the analytical methods used to perform the 
reported tests. Critical elements that must be addressed in the SOPs are described in 
Part 9. 
5.4.7 
The laboratory must demonstrate compliance with these regulations through a successful 
onsite inspection conducted by Department personnel prior to certification. Previously 
certified laboratories will be inspected on an annual basis. Routine inspections will take 
place on a date agreed upon between the Department and laboratory personnel. 
Unannounced inspections may also be performed at certified laboratories to evaluate 
complaints. 
5.4.8 
The laboratory must maintain all records related to analysis for a minimum of 5 years. 
Records to be maintained include instrument maintenance, calibration, quality control and 
quality assurance documentation for all analyses, specimen processing, analytical results 
and reports, dates of analysis, and the analysts’ names. Retained records must be made 
available for review by Department personnel.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
14 
5.4.9 
The laboratory must investigate all analytical non-conformances. Whenever subject test 
results are impacted, further testing using the affected method(s) may not resume until 
the laboratory has performed a root cause analysis and corrected the non-conformance. 
All subject tests impacted by the non-conformance must be reviewed by the laboratory 
director and amended reports issued when necessary. Copies of the non-conformance, 
root cause analysis, and corrective action plan must be provided to the Department upon 
request. 
5.5 
Proficiency Testing (PT) requirements for certified forensic toxicology laboratories. 
5.5.1 
Proficiency Testing (PT) is the evaluation of pre-prepared unknown specimens by the 
laboratory with the results being assessed against standardized criteria. PT evaluations 
serve as a demonstration of continuing competency for the laboratory and are required 
for each approved category on the laboratory’s scope of certification. 
5.5.2 
PT samples must be obtained from a PT provider that is accredited to the ISO/IEC 17043 
standard and can provide biological specimens that are appropriate for the testing the 
laboratory performs. 
5.5.3 
Prior to initial certification, the laboratory must, at minimum, have successfully 
participated in one proficiency testing event within the preceding 12 months in each 
category for which the laboratory seeks certification, and must have received a 
satisfactory score for each of those events as defined in Part 5. 
5.5.4 
To maintain continued laboratory certification, a laboratory must demonstrate successful 
PT performance for each category in which the laboratory is certified according to the 
guidelines in section 5.5.5. 
5.5.5 
For each approved category of testing, PT samples shall be: 
5.5.5.1 Tested for all analytes reported by the laboratory that are present in the PT 
samples, 
5.5.5.2 Tested by each technical personnel member annually, 
5.5.5.3 Tested using approved standard operating procedures, 
5.5.5.4 Tested in the same manner as subject samples, 
5.5.5.5 Reported to the PT provider, and 
5.5.5.6 The laboratory must request that the proficiency testing provider provide a copy 
of their PT survey results to: 
Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment 
Colorado State Public Health Laboratory 
Certification Program 
8100 East Lowry Boulevard 
Denver, CO 80230-6828

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
15 
5.5.6 
Blood Alcohol Testing 
5.5.6.1 A laboratory must demonstrate successful PT performance in a minimum of 3 
alcohol PT testing events per year. Each event must consist of a minimum of 4 
specimens each. The PT provider will evaluate the results and forward them to 
the laboratory as well as to the Department. 
5.5.6.2 Other forensically significant volatiles, such as acetone, methanol and 
isopropanol, may be included in one or more PT samples in each of the 3 events. 
The laboratory must be able to detect any volatile included in the PT samples 
and must retain documentation of this detection with the PT results. 
5.5.6.3 Scoring Criteria for Blood Alcohol Proficiency Testing 
5.5.6.3.1 
PT results must be returned to the PT provider within the time 
specified by the PT provider. Results received after the due date will not 
be scored and will be considered an unsatisfactory performance resulting 
in a score of 0 for the testing event. The laboratory must contact the PT 
provider and the Department if extenuating circumstances prevent timely 
response to a PT event. 
5.5.6.3.2 
An acceptable blood alcohol PT result is one that falls within the 
acceptance criteria as established by the PT provider. 
5.5.6.3.3 
The laboratory must investigate any score less than 100% and 
undertake corrective action as needed. The investigation outcome and 
corrective action must be provided to the Department upon request. 
5.5.6.3.4 
The PT results will be reviewed by the Department to determine 
if successful PT performance has been achieved. If a laboratory has 
consecutive “Unsatisfactory” evaluations, or achieves an “Unsatisfactory” 
score in 2 of any 3 consecutive PT events, the PT performance is 
deemed “Unsuccessful”. The “Unsuccessful” determination may result in 
a “Directed Plan of Correction” specified by the Department, or 
suspension/limitation of certification for the failed analyte. 
5.5.7 
Urine, Blood and Postmortem Drug Testing 
5.5.7.1 For blood drug, urine drug and postmortem screening and confirmation 
certification, the laboratory must demonstrate successful PT performance. 
5.5.7.1.1 
For blood drug certification the laboratory must participate in a 
minimum of two PT events annually that include blood samples. 
5.5.7.1.2 
For urine drug certification the laboratory must participate in a 
minimum of two PT events annually that include urine samples. 
5.5.7.1.3 
For laboratories performing only postmortem forensic toxicology 
testing the laboratory must participate in a minimum of two PT events 
annually that include a combination of blood and urine samples and 
other postmortem matrices when available. 
5.5.7.2 Scoring criteria for drug proficiency testing

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
16 
5.5.7.2.1 
PT results must be returned to the PT provider within the time 
specified by the PT provider. Results received after the due date will not 
be scored and will be considered an “Unsatisfactory” performance 
resulting in a score of 0 for the testing event. The laboratory must contact 
the PT provider and the Department if extenuating circumstances 
prevent timely response to a PT event. 
5.5.7.2.2 
All analytes listed and reported (qualitatively and quantitatively) 
by the laboratory must be analytically tested in the PT challenges in the 
same manner as subject samples. 
5.5.7.2.3 
A satisfactory event score is the positive identification and when 
applicable, quantitation of 80% of the target analytes present with no 
false positives. Any false positive will result in an “Unsatisfactory” score 
for the PT event. 
5.5.7.2.3.1 
Scoring is as follows: if a laboratory only reports an 
analyte qualitatively, the total possible points for that analyte will 
be 4 points. 
Total points possible: 
A. 
Each possible positive identification is 4 points. 
B. 
Each quantitative result is worth a possible 2 points. 
Note: quantitative results will be subject to further point 
restrictions when standard deviation (SD) values are given by 
the PT provider. 
Laboratory’s points: 
A. 
Each correctly identified analyte is 4 points. 
B. 
Each false negative is 0 points (i.e., no qualitative result 
given). 
C. 
Each quantitative result within 1 standard deviation (SD) 
is 2 points. 
D. 
Each quantitative result within 2 SD is 1 point. 
E. 
Each quantitative result outside 2 SD is 0 points. 
F. 
Each correctly identified negative specimen is 4 points. 
G. 
Each false positive is minus (-) 25 points and is 
automatically considered an unsatisfactory event. 
Laboratory’s Score = (laboratory’s points / total possible 
points) * 100

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
17 
5.5.7.2.4 
Whenever a laboratory receives an unsatisfactory PT event (less 
than 80%), the laboratory must investigate and undertake corrective 
action as needed. The investigation outcome and corrective action 
documentation must be provided to the Department upon request. 
5.5.7.2.5 
Whenever a quantitative result reported by the laboratory in a PT 
challenge is considered “Unacceptable” by the PT provider (outside ±2 
SD or 25% from the mean, whichever is greater), the laboratory must 
undertake and document corrective action. The corrective action 
documentation must be retained with the PT results. 
5.5.7.2.6 
A laboratory will be suspended from a category for 
“Unsuccessful” PT performance if consecutive “Unsatisfactory” PT 
events occur, or two out of three consecutive “Unsatisfactory” PT events 
occur. A laboratory may be reinstated to active status after successful 
participation in the next PT challenge. Failure to achieve a “Satisfactory” 
score in the next test event will result in the revocation of the certificate 
and require two successful PT events before the laboratory may be 
eligible to reapply for certification. The laboratory may request the PT 
provider send one extra set of PT samples when suspension status 
occurs. 
5.6 
Onsite Laboratory Inspection 
5.6.1 
Onsite laboratory inspections must be performed prior to initial certification and annually 
thereafter for non-accredited labs by the Department in accordance with this rule. 
5.6.2 
The onsite inspection will include a review of the laboratory’s practices to ensure 
compliance with these regulations. Laboratories must demonstrate compliance with all 
applicable requirements in Parts 5 through 9. 
5.6.3 
Laboratories will be contacted by the Department to schedule the annual onsite 
inspection after receipt of the application requesting certification. A letter confirming the 
inspection date will be sent to the laboratory. 
5.6.4 
The Department will evaluate compliance with the laboratory certification standards listed 
in Part 9 during the onsite inspection. 
5.6.5 
Following the onsite inspection, a written report will be prepared that will list any non- 
conformances identified. The report should be sent to the laboratory within 30 days of 
inspection. 
5.6.6 
Within 30-days of receipt of the inspection report, the laboratory must provide to the 
Department for review and approval a written plan of correction that addresses each non- 
conformance listed in the inspection report. 
5.6.7 
Any requested objective evidence must be provided to the Department within 60 days of 
receipt of the inspection report. Any items requiring clarification will be resolved by phone 
or written correspondence. 
5.6.8 
Identification of non-conformance practices that impact test results, failure to provide an 
acceptable plan of correction, or failure to provide adequate objective evidence within the 
specified timelines, may result in limitation, suspension, revocation or denial of 
certification. Such actions shall be governed by Section 24-4-104, C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
18 
5.6.9 
Upon the laboratory’s successful completion of the annual inspection and certification 
process, the department will issue a certificate. The certificate will include the name and 
location of the laboratory, the categories the laboratory is certified to perform testing in, 
and the certification period. 
5.6.10 The Department will annually publish a list of certified laboratories. 
Part 6. Blood Forensic Toxicology – Collection and Testing Requirements 
6.1 
Blood Specimen Collection 
6.1.1 
Blood Specimen(s) must be: 
6.1.1.1 Collected in the presence of the arresting officer or other responsible person who 
can authenticate the specimens. 
6.1.1.2 Collected and labeled following the instruction provided in the forensic blood 
collection kit. 
6.1.1.3 Collected by venipuncture by a physician, nurse, paramedic, emergency medical 
technician, medical technologist, or a person whose training and normal duties 
include collecting blood specimens. 
6.1.1.4 Collected only in an appropriate clinical or public safety facility (e.g., hospital, 
medical clinic, ambulance, police station, fire station, or other approved facility). 
In no event will the collection of blood specimens interfere with the provision of 
essential medical care to the subject or the ready availability of emergency 
medical services to the public. 
6.1.1.5 Collected using sterile equipment. The skin at the area of puncture must be 
thoroughly cleansed and disinfected with an aqueous solution of nonvolatile 
antiseptic. Ethyl alcohol or phenol solutions must not be used as a skin 
antiseptic. 
6.1.1.6 Dispensed or collected directly into two 10 mL sterile tubes set to draw a 
(nominal 10 mL) volume containing sodium fluoride (nominal mass 100 mg) 
preservative and potassium oxalate (nominal mass 20 mg) anticoagulant. 
6.1.1.7 Properly mixed in accordance with the instructions provided in the forensic blood 
collection kit. 
6.1.1.8 The blood collection tubes must be affixed with a unique identification label that 
includes the subject name and evidence seal. 
6.1.1.9 The specimens must be placed in secured storage until shipped. 
6.1.1.10 
If shipping is delayed by more than 48 hours, samples must be 
refrigerated at or below 8 degrees Celsius and not frozen in order to prevent the 
container(s) from breaking. 
6.1.1.11 
Whenever possible, specimens should be shipped within 7 days of 
collection by the law enforcement agency. 
6.2 
Blood Specimen Testing

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
19 
6.2.1 
One tube of blood must be analyzed for the State’s test(s). The State’s test(s) must be 
performed and completed in a reasonable period of time in order to not affect the validity 
of the test(s). Specimens found to be positive on the initial test(s) must be confirmed 
using a different chemical principle from the initial screening test when available, prior to 
reporting the results. 
6.2.2 
In the event that not enough specimen volume is provided to complete the State’s test(s) 
and the second sample must be used, the laboratory must obtain authorization from the 
appropriate authority prior to testing. 
6.2.3 
Any remaining blood specimen must be retained and stored by the certified laboratory at 
or below 8 degrees Celsius or frozen in an appropriate container for a period of not less 
than 12 months from the date of collection unless requested by and transferred to a 
representative of another certified laboratory, acting on behalf of the defendant. 
6.2.4 
The second blood specimen must be analyzed by a Department-certified laboratory when 
requested by the defendant or defendant’s legal counsel. The test(s) must be performed 
and completed in a reasonable period of time in order to not affect the validity of the 
test(s). Specimens found to be positive on the initial test(s) must be confirmed using a 
different chemical principle from the initial screening test when available, prior to 
reporting the results to a court of law. 
Part 7. Urine Forensic Toxicology – Collection and Testing Requirements 
7.1 
Urine Specimen Collection 
7.1.1 
Urine specimen(s) must be: 
7.1.1.1 Collected in the presence of collection personnel who can authenticate the 
specimen(s). 
7.1.1.2 Collected in a clean, sterile container. 
7.1.1.3 Affixed with a unique identification label that includes the subject name and 
evidence seal. 
7.1.1.4 The specimens must be placed in secured storage until shipped. 
7.1.1.5 If shipping is delayed by more than 48 hours, samples must be refrigerated at or 
below 8 degrees centigrade in an appropriate container. 
7.1.1.6 Whenever possible, specimens should be shipped within 7-days of collection by 
the law enforcement agency. 
7.2 
Urine Specimen Testing 
7.2.1 
The State’s test(s) must be performed and completed in a reasonable period of time in 
order to not affect the validity of the test(s). Specimens found to be positive on the initial 
test(s) must be confirmed using a different chemical principle from the initial screening 
test when available, prior to reporting the results. 
7.2.2 
Any remaining urine specimen(s) must be retained by the certified laboratory at or below 
8 degrees Celsius in an appropriate container for a period of not less than 12 months 
unless requested by and transferred to a representative from another certified laboratory 
acting on behalf of the defendant.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
20 
7.2.3 
Any remaining urine specimen(s) must be analyzed by a Department-certified laboratory 
when requested by the defendant or defendant’s legal counsel. The test(s) must be 
performed and completed in a reasonable period of time in order to not affect the validity 
of the test(s). Specimens found to be positive on the initial test(s) must be confirmed 
using a different chemical principle from the initial screening test when available, prior to 
reporting the results to a court of law. 
Part 8. Postmortem Forensic Toxicology – Collection and Testing Requirements 
8.1 
Postmortem Specimen Collection 
8.1.1 
Collection of specimens from deceased persons conducted per Section 42-4-1304, 
C.R.S. will be performed by a person whose training and normal duties include the 
collection of blood or other bodily substances from deceased persons. 
8.1.1.1 Any person collecting specimens pursuant to Section 42-4-1304, C.R.S., must be 
certified by the Department. 
8.1.1.2 To become certified, any person collecting specimens pursuant to Section 42-4- 
1304, C.R.S., will demonstrate in the form and manner required by the 
Department that they satisfy Rule 8.1.2. 
8.1.2 
Individuals who collect specimens from deceased persons may be certified by the 
Department when any of the following requirements are met. 
8.1.2.1 A medical provider as defined by Section 12-36-106, C.R.S., licensed to practice 
medicine in the state of Colorado whose scope of practice and normal duties 
include the collection of specimens from deceased persons. 
8.1.2.1.1 
Individuals supervised by a medical provider, as defined in 
8.1.2.1, whose scope of practice and normal duties include the collection 
of specimens from deceased persons. 
8.1.2.2 An individual serving as a Colorado county coroner and whose normal duties 
include the collection of specimens from deceased persons. 
8.1.2.3 Individuals supervised by a Colorado county coroner, as defined in 8.1.2.2, 
whose normal duties include the collection of specimens from deceased persons. 
8.1.3 
Emergency medical service providers certified by the Department as defined by Section 
25-3.5-203, C.R.S., whose normal duties include the collection of specimens from 
deceased persons. 
8.1.4 
No person having custody of the body of the deceased shall perform any internal 
embalming procedure until a blood and urine specimen to be tested for alcohol, drugs 
and carbon monoxide concentrations has been taken. 
8.1.5 
The laboratory must develop and provide detailed guidelines and instructions for the 
collection of postmortem specimens that include the date and time of collection, the time 
of the incident and the time of death. 
8.1.6 
Each specimen should be labeled with the name of the subject from whom the 
specimens were collected together with other appropriate identification; for example, the 
medical examiner’s case number and/or a unique identification number.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
21 
8.1.7 
Whenever possible, the amount of specimen collected should be sufficient to allow for 
analysis of one or more analytes if needed at a later date. 
8.2 
Postmortem Specimen Testing 
8.2.1 
Postmortem test(s) must be performed and completed within a reasonable period of time 
as to not affect the validity of the test(s). Specimens found to be positive on the initial 
test(s) must be confirmed prior to reporting the results. 
8.2.2 
Any remaining postmortem specimens must be retained and stored by the certified 
laboratory at or below 8 degrees Celsius in an appropriate container for a period of not 
less than 12-months from the date of collection unless requested by and transferred to a 
representative from another certified laboratory for additional testing. 
Part 9. DUI and DUID Forensic Toxicology Laboratory Certification Standards 
9.1 
Personnel 
9.1.1 
The laboratory must have a Laboratory Director. The Laboratory Director is responsible 
for the overall operation and administration of the laboratory as well as for assuring 
compliance with these regulations and the accuracy of the results reported by the 
laboratory. 
9.1.2 
The Laboratory Director must meet one of the following qualifications: board certified in 
clinical pathology by the American Board of Pathology; or certified as a Diplomate by the 
American Board of Forensic Toxicology (ABFT); or alternatively, have a doctoral degree 
in one of the natural sciences and at least three years of full-time laboratory experience in 
forensic toxicology; or a master’s degree in one of the natural sciences and at least four 
years of full-time experience in forensic toxicology; or a bachelor’s degree in one of the 
natural sciences and at least five years full-time experience in forensic toxicology. 
9.1.3 
The Laboratory Director is ultimately responsible for the supervision of all laboratory 
operations and personnel and to ensure compliance with the requirements of this rule. 
The Laboratory Director may delegate supervisory responsibilities to a designee if those 
responsibilities are designated in writing. 
9.1.4 
The Technical Personnel must have a minimum of an associate degree in a laboratory 
science or, one year training in an accredited laboratory sciences program and one year 
documented on-the-job laboratory experience. 
9.1.5 
The Laboratory Director or designee must ensure policies and procedures to assess the 
competency of Technical Personnel engaged in testing are established, followed and 
documented. 
9.1.6 
Competency assessments must be performed and documented on all new Technical 
Personnel prior to reporting results; on existing Technical Personnel on an annual basis; 
and on all Technical Personnel when a method or instrumentation is added or modified 
by the laboratory prior to reporting subject results. The competency assessments and 
documentation must be consistent with the laboratory’s written training policies and 
procedures. 
9.1.7 
The laboratory must maintain documentation of formal education, training, and 
experience for the Laboratory Director and Technical Personnel. 
9.1.8 
The laboratory must have a written job description for each position in the laboratory.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
22 
9.2 
Standard operating procedure manual 
9.2.1 
The laboratory must have a written procedure manual for the performance of all analytical 
methods available for Technical Personnel to follow at all times. 
9.2.2 
The current Laboratory Director or designee must approve, sign, and date each 
procedure. 
9.2.3 
The Laboratory Director or designee must approve, initial, and date each change or 
revision to the procedure. 
9.2.4 
The laboratory must maintain copies of previous standard operating procedures with 
effective dates of use for a minimum of 5-years from the date last used. 
9.2.5 
The Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) manual must include the following criteria and 
processes for laboratory personnel to follow. 
9.2.5.1 Specimen receiving 
9.2.5.2 Specimen accessioning 
9.2.5.3 Specimen storage 
9.2.5.4 Identifying and rejecting unacceptable specimens 
9.2.5.5 Recording and reporting discrepancies 
9.2.5.6 Security of specimens, aliquots and/or extracts and records 
9.2.5.7 Validation of a new or revised method prior to testing specimens to include: 
accuracy, precision, analytical sensitivity, analytical specificity (interferences), 
Limit Of Detection (LOD), Limit Of Quantitation (LOQ), and verification of the 
reportable range 
9.2.5.8 Aliquoting specimens to avoid contamination and/or carry-over 
9.2.5.9 Sample retention to assure stability for one year 
9.2.5.10 
Disposal of specimens 
9.2.5.11 
The theory and principles behind each assay 
9.2.5.12 
Preparation and identification of reagents, standards, calibrators, and 
controls 
9.2.5.13 
Special requirements and safety precautions involved in performing 
assays 
9.2.5.14 
Frequency and number of control and calibration materials 
9.2.5.15 
Recording and reporting assay results 
9.2.5.16 
Protocol and criteria for accepting or rejecting analytical data 
9.2.5.17 
Procedure to verify the accuracy of the final report

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
23 
9.2.5.18 
Pertinent literature references for each method 
9.2.5.19 
Current step-by-step instructions with sufficient detail to perform the 
assay to include equipment operation and any abbreviated versions used by the 
Technical Personnel. 
9.2.5.20 
Acceptability criteria for the results of calibration standards and controls 
as well as for the comparison between two aliquots or columns. 
9.2.5.21 
A documented system for reviewing the results of testing calibrators, 
controls, standards, and subject tests results, as well as reviewing for clerical 
errors, analytical errors and any unusual analytical results. 
9.2.5.22 
A documented system for the review, notification and implementation of 
corrective actions to include, when applicable, contacting the requesting agency. 
9.2.5.23 
Policies and procedures to follow when specimens are requested for 
referral and testing by another certified laboratory. 
9.3 
Proficiency Testing (PT) 
9.3.1 
The laboratory must have a documented system for timely review and evaluation of all 
PT results by the Laboratory Director and by all Technical Personnel who participated in 
the PT event. 
9.3.2 
The laboratory must maintain a copy of all records and documentation for a minimum of 5 
years from the date of the proficiency testing event. 
9.4 
Quality Assurance and Quality Control 
9.4.1 
The laboratory must check and document the accuracy of automatic and/or adjustable 
pipettes and other measuring devices when placed into service and annually thereafter. 
9.4.2 
The laboratory must clean, maintain, and calibrate, as needed, the analytical balances 
and in addition, verify the performance of the balance annually using certified weights to 
include three or more weights bracketing the ranges of measurements used by the 
laboratory. 
9.4.3 
The laboratory must annually verify and document the accuracy of thermometers using a 
reference thermometer. 
9.4.4 
The laboratory must record temperatures on all equipment when in use where 
temperature control is specified in SOP’s, such as water baths, heating blocks, 
incubators, ovens, refrigerators, and freezers. 
9.4.5 
The laboratory must properly label reagents as to the identity, the concentration, date of 
preparation, storage conditions, lot number tracking, expiration date, and the identity of 
the preparer (when applicable). 
9.4.6 
The laboratory must avoid mixing different lots of reagents in the same analytical run. 
9.4.7 
For quantitative analysis, the laboratory must perform and document a calibration curve 
that has a correlation coefficient of 0.99 or greater using, at a minimum, four calibrators 
that encompass the reportable range.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
24 
9.4.8 
If the laboratory uses historical calibration data for an assay, control materials must be 
included with each batch of specimens tested to verify the validity of the calibration 
including at or close to the reporting limits. Laboratories may use historical calibration 
curves only if they have demonstrated and documented the linearity and precision of the 
curve over time. Calibration must be validated by using control materials with each batch 
of specimens tested to cover the entire range of the calibration curve. 
9.4.9 
For qualitative analyses, the laboratory must analyze, at minimum, a negative control and 
a positive control with each analytical run of samples analyzed. 
9.4.10 For quantitative analyses, the laboratory must analyze, at minimum, a negative control 
and two levels of positive controls that challenge the entire calibration curve. 
9.4.11 The laboratory must use control material(s) (when possible) that differs in source, lot 
number, or concentration from the calibration material used with each analytical run. In 
instances where the same source must be utilized, separate weighing’s or solutions must 
be used to prepare these controls. 
9.4.12 For multi-analyte assays, the laboratory must perform and document calibration curves 
and controls specific to each analyte, or at minimum, one with similar chemical properties 
as reported in the analytical run. 
9.4.13 The laboratory must analyze at least one control that is made using reference material 
from an ISO/IEC 17034 accredited manufacturer when available. For quantitative 
purposes, the control must be within 10% of the stated assayed value for ethanol and 
within 20% for blood and urine drugs of the stated assayed value with each analytic run. 
9.4.14 The laboratory must analyze an appropriate matrix matched negative and positive control 
with each analytical run, when available. 
9.4.15 The laboratory must analyze calibrators and controls in the same manner as unknowns. 
9.4.16 The laboratory must define acceptability criteria for calibration standards and controls for 
all assays such that they are within 10% for ethanol and 20% for blood and urine drugs of 
the target value. 
Note: a slightly wider acceptable value (e.g. +/-25% or +/-30%) for calibrators and 
controls that approach the Limit Of Quantitation (LOQ) of the assay is permitted. 
9.4.17 The laboratory must monitor and document the performance of calibrator and control 
materials on an ongoing basis to ensure performance does not exceed the laboratory’s 
established criteria of acceptability. 
9.4.18 The laboratory must have written criteria to follow when corrective action is required for 
any unacceptable calibration, control, and standard or instrument performance. 
9.4.19 The laboratory must document the corrective actions taken when an unacceptable 
calibration, control, standard, or other reagent result exceeds the laboratory’s criteria of 
acceptability. 
9.4.20 Corrective actions must be documented and reviewed by the Laboratory Director or 
designee on an ongoing basis to ensure the effectiveness of the actions taken.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
25 
9.4.21 The laboratory must maintain records of validation data for any new or modified methods 
to include: accuracy; precision; analytical specificity (interferences); Limit Of Detection 
(LOD); LOQ; and verification of the regression model. 
9.4.22 Analytical methods must be developed by the laboratory such that screening and 
confirmation testing can be completed on no more than 5 ml of sample volume. 
9.4.23 The analyst must follow the SOP for the tests performed. 
9.5 
Chain of Custody, Security, and Specimen Retention Facility Space 
9.5.1 
The laboratory must have a system to document the complete chain of custody of all 
forensic specimens to include receipt, storage, personnel handling the specimens, 
external transfers, and disposal. 
9.5.2 
The laboratory must issue instructions to user agencies that include the requirements for 
specimen types(s), unique identification, and volume. 
9.5.3 
The laboratory must document the condition of the sample, external package and 
individual evidence seals. 
9.5.4 
The laboratory must compare the evidence seals against the corresponding requisition 
and document any discrepancies. When discrepancies occur, documentation must state 
how the discrepancy was resolved. 
9.5.5 
The laboratory must maintain a current list of authorized personnel. 
9.5.6 
The laboratory must restrict entry into the laboratory only to authorized personnel. 
9.5.7 
The laboratory must have provisions for securing the laboratory during non-working 
hours. 
9.5.8 
The laboratory must secure short and long-term storage areas when not in use. 
9.5.9 
The laboratory must log in and aliquot specimens in a secure area. 
9.5.10 There must be adequate space to perform the analyses in the laboratory. 
9.6 
Records and Reporting 
9.6.1 
All instrumentation and analysis records maintained by the testing laboratory must be 
retained for a period of not less than 5-years. 
9.6.2 
Prior to reporting results, all specimens that have been identified as positive on an initial 
screening drug test must be confirmed using a second analytical procedure using a 
different chemical principle from the initial screening test when available or as applicable. 
9.6.3 
The laboratory must confirm the identity of an analyte using a different extract of the 
same specimen than was used for the screening test. 
9.6.4 
Prior to reporting results, all blood ethanol results must be confirmed using a second GC 
column where the results from the second column had a significant difference in retention 
time and a change in elution order of some of the common volatiles from the column 
utilized in the initial column.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
26 
9.6.5 
When blood samples are screened for ethanol by head space gas chromatography with 
flame ionization detection (if applicable), a separate aliquot from the original specimen 
must be used for confirmation. (e.g. two separate aliquots should be tested for blood 
alcohol). 
9.6.6 
For postmortem testing, the laboratory must confirm the identity of a drug analyte or 
alcohol concentration using a second column and a different extract from the same 
sample, or use a different sample matrix from the same subject when possible. 
9.6.7 
The laboratory must only report quantitative results that are within the calibration curve. 
9.6.8 
The laboratory must verify results that are outside the calibration curve in a manner 
consistent with the laboratory’s SOPs. 
9.6.9 
The laboratory must qualitatively report results below the lowest concentration of 
calibrator or standard and above the Limit Of Detection (LOD) as a semi-quantitative 
result. (e.g. less than or greater than X mg/L). 
9.6.10 The laboratory must maintain records of testing for at least 5 years to include: accession 
numbers, specimen type, raw data from the analytical run, controls, subject results, final 
and/or amended reports, acceptable reference range parameters, identification of 
Technical Personnel who performed the testing, and date of analysis. 
9.6.11 The laboratory’s final report must contain the name and location of the laboratory where 
the testing was performed, name and unique identifier of subject, submitting agency, 
sample received date, date of report, type of specimen tested, test result, units of 
measure, and any other information or qualifiers needed for interpretation when 
applicable to the test method and results being reported, to include any identified and 
documented discrepancies. 
9.6.12 The laboratory must develop an adequate discovery packet that meets the requirements 
specified in Part 1.5 of these rules and regulations. 
9.7 
Analytical Process 
9.7.1 
General Requirements 
9.7.1.1 The laboratory must document the conditions of the instruments to include the 
detector response, tune, and validation of new chromatography columns (when 
applicable). 
9.7.1.2 The laboratory must perform and document preventative maintenance as 
required by the manufacturer. 
9.7.1.3 The maintenance records must be readily available to the Technical Personnel. 
9.7.1.4 The laboratory must use an internal standard for each qualitative and quantitative 
analysis that has similar chemical and physical properties to that of the 
compound identified and is isotopically labeled when available. 
9.7.1.5 The laboratory must document the monitoring of the response (area or peak 
height) of the internal standard to ensure consistency over time of the analytical 
system.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
27 
9.7.1.6 The laboratory must monitor analyses to check for contamination and/or 
carryover. 
9.7.1.7 The laboratory must have written acceptability criteria for variance between the 
results when the same analyte is quantified in multiple analyses. 
9.7.1.8 The laboratory must evaluate the performance of the instrument after routine and 
preventative maintenance prior to analyzing subject samples. 
9.7.1.9 If the laboratory has written its own software, the laboratory must have 
documentation that the software’s accuracy was verified. 
9.7.2 
Head Space-Gas Chromatography with Flame Ionization Detection (HS-GC-FID) 
9.7.2.1 The laboratory must have established criteria of acceptability not to exceed 10% 
for variances between the results of the blood ethanol analysis using different 
aliquots and between different columns. 
9.7.3 
Gas Chromatography with Mass Spectometry (GC-MS) 
9.7.3.1 The laboratory must document the changes of septa as specified in the SOP. 
9.7.3.2 The laboratory must document changes and/or replacements of liners as 
specified in the SOP. 
9.7.3.3 The laboratory must have written criteria for an acceptable tune for the mass 
spectrometer. When the tune is unacceptable, corrective action to include 
additional maintenance must be documented (if applicable). 
9.7.3.4 If the laboratory uses selected ion monitoring, the laboratory must compare ion 
ratios and retention times between calibrators, controls, and samples for 
identification of an analyte within the same analytical run. 
9.7.3.5 If the laboratory uses a library match to qualitatively identify an analyte, the 
laboratory must compare the relative retention time and mass spectra from a 
known standard or control run that has been tested on the same instrument 
before reporting the results. 
9.7.4 
Immunoassays 
9.7.4.1 If the laboratory tests specimens differently from what the manufacturer has 
approved for the assay, or if the laboratory has modified the test method from the 
manufacturer instructions, the laboratory must have documentation of the 
validation for the modified test method or test system. 
9.7.5 
Liquid Chromatography with Mass Spectrometry or with Tandem Mass Spectrometry 
(LCMS, LCMS/MS) 
9.7.5.1 The laboratory must maintain records of the mass spectrometer calibration. 
9.7.5.2 The laboratory must confirm the identity of an analyte by LC-MS/MS (screening 
or quantitation) with at least two transitions in addition to the laboratory’s 
retention time criteria.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
28 
9.7.5.3 If the laboratory recycles eluting solvents, it must maintain written acceptability 
standards for each type of eluting solvent it recycles. 
Part 10. 
Violations and Remedies 
10.1 
Violations 
10.1.1 It is a violation of these rules and regulations to perform EBAT testing without the 
appropriate certification for the EBAT instrument, operator, or instructor. 
10.1.2 Violation of these rules and regulations may result in denial, suspension, or revocation of 
certification as described in 10.4. 
10.1.3 Generally, a violation will not be cited if: 
10.1.3.1 
The violation was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or 
severe property damage or there were no feasible alternatives, and provided that 
proper notification was given to the Department. 
10.1.3.2 
The violations resulted from matters beyond the control of the facility or 
laboratory, such as equipment failures that were unavoidable by reasonable 
quality assurance measures or management controls. 
10.2 
Complaints 
10.2.1 Complaints received by the Department will be investigated to determine if the claim is 
substantiated or unsubstantiated. Complaints received will be documented and an 
investigation may include and result in, but is not limited to, the following actions: desk 
review of documentation requested by the Department from the laboratory, unannounced 
onsite survey, limitation, suspension, or revocation of the laboratory’s certification. 
10.3 
Right to appeal the denial, suspension or revocation of certification. 
10.3.1 Any certified facility, certified laboratory, operator, or instructor whose certification is 
denied, suspended, or revoked under these regulations may seek appeal of that 
determination pursuant to Section 24-4-105, C.R.S. 
10.4 
Denial, Suspension, or Revocation of Certification: 
10.4.1 The Department may deny, suspend, or revoke the certification of EBAT instrument(s) 
located in an approved facility, the certification of an instructor, the certification of an 
operator or the certification of a laboratory for one or more of the following causes: 
10.4.1.1 
Falsification of data or other deceptive practices including false 
statements by omission or commission relevant to the certification process. 
10.4.1.2 
Refusing authorized Department personnel access to the laboratory or 
facility, or failure to provide requested records to the Department for the purpose 
of determining compliance with these rules and regulations. 
10.4.1.3 
Gross incompetence or negligent practice. 
10.4.1.4 
Willful or repeated violation of any lawful rule, regulation, or order of the 
Department or the Board of Health and its officers.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1005-2 
Laboratory Services Division 
 
29 
10.4.1.5 
Inadequate space, equipment, personnel, or methods utilized for testing. 
10.4.1.6 
Submission of any test results of another person as those of the subject 
being evaluated. 
10.4.1.7 
For a laboratory, failure to successfully participate in proficiency testing. 
10.4.1.8 
For a laboratory, the receipt of consecutive “Unsatisfactory” evaluations, 
or achievement of an “Unsatisfactory” score in 2 of any 3 consecutive proficiency 
testing events. 
10.4.1.9 
For a laboratory, contact with another laboratory concerning proficiency 
test results prior to the due date of those results. 
10.5 
Injunction 
10.5.1 The Department may seek an injunction against any entity for failure to comply with these 
rules and regulations. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 10/01/2011. 
Entire rule eff. 02/01/2013. 
Parts 5.1, 5.3.3, 5.3.5 eff. 03/17/2018. 
Entire rule eff. 02/14/2019. 
Entire rule eff. 11/14/2024.
