---
id: "5_CCR_1003-5"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "5 CCR 1003-5"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=9173&fileName=5%20CCR%201003-5&type=pdf"
---

#### 5_CCR_1003-5. 5 CCR 1003-5

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
Water Quality Control Division 
SWIMMING POOLS AND MINERAL BATHS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
ARTICLE I 
GENERAL 
1.1 
Authority 
This regulation is adopted pursuant to Sections 25-1-108(1)(c)(I) and 25-5-801, et seq., C.R.S., and is 
consistent with the requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, Section 24-4-101, et seq., 
C.R.S. 
Nothing in this regulation limits the department's authority to close swimming pools or areas as authorized 
under state law. 
1.2 
Incorporation by Reference 
1. 
This regulation incorporates by reference (as indicated within) material originally 
published elsewhere. Such incorporation, however, excludes later amendments to or 
editions of the referenced material. 
2. 
The Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment, Water Quality Control 
Division shall maintain copies of the complete text of the incorporated materials, which 
shall be available for public inspection during regular business hours, and shall provide 
certified copies of the materials at cost upon request. For information regarding how the 
incorporated materials may be obtained or examined, contact: 
Division Director 
Water Quality Control Division 
Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment 
4300 Cherry Creek Drive South 
Denver, Colorado 80246-1530 
1.3 
Use of the Model Aquatic Health Code Authorized 
1. 
The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention’s (CDC) Model Aquatic Health Code (3rd Edition – 2018) is hereby 
incorporated into these regulations by reference and is available from the CDC’s website 
at https://www.cdc.gov/mahc/editions/current.html. 
A. 
Where pool and spa construction standards in the MAHC conflict with locally 
adopted building, electrical, or plumbing codes, the more stringent of the 
conflicting code language shall have precedence. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
2 
2. 
A city, town, a city and county, or a county or district board of public health established 
pursuant to section 25-1-508, C.R.S. may, at its sole discretion, voluntarily choose to 
adopt the Model Aquatic Health Code, in whole or in part, into its local ordinances or 
rules, to be administered and enforced by such city, town, city and county, or local public 
health agency. 
3. 
The department is not authorized to administer/enforce the Model Aquatic Health Code, 
and instead shall administer/enforce the regulations below in jurisdictions that do not 
have a voluntary swimming pool and mineral bath program. 
1.4 
DEFINITIONS: 
The following definitions shall apply in the Interpretation and enforcement of this regulation. The word 
“shall” as used herein indicates a mandatory requirement 
1. 
“Abbreviations” (technical): 
A. 
“DE” means diatomaceous earth; 
B. 
“fps” means feet per second; 
C. 
“gpm” means gallons per minute; 
D. 
“mg/l” means milligrams per liter. When requirements in this regulation specify limits for 
liquid volume measurements using mg/l or ppm, either may be used depending on the 
type of testing equipment available; 
E. 
“NSF” means National Sanitation Foundation; 
F. 
“ORP” means oxidation reduction potential; 
G. 
“ppm” means parts per million. See notation under mg/I for use. 
2. 
“Cross-Connection” means any physical arrangement whereby a potable water supply is 
connected, directly or indirectly, with any other water supply system, pool, sewer, drain, conduit, 
tank, plumbing fixture, or other device which contains, or may contain, contaminated water, 
sewage, or other waste, liquid or gas of unknown or unsafe quality which may be capable of 
imparting contamination or pollution to the potable water supply as a result of backflow. Bypass 
arrangement, jumper connections, removable spools, swivel or changeover devices, four-way 
valve connections, and other temporary or permanent devices through which, or because of 
which, backflow could occur are considered to be cross-connections. 
3. 
“Department of Health” means the Colorado Department of Health and its duly authorized agents 
and employees. 
4. 
“Handhold” means a structure not over twelve inches above the water line around the perimeter 
of the pool wall, affording physical means for the bather to grasp the pool sides. 
5. 
“Instructional Program” means any pool activity which utilizes an instructor who is 
managing/controlling the activity (such as, but not limited to swim lessons, water aerobics, life 
saving class, scuba diving class, swim team practice and canoeing class). 
6. 
“Lifeguard Station” refers to the designated work station/area of a lifeguard.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
3 
7. 
“Natural swimming area” means a designated portion of a natural or impounded body of water in 
which the designated portion is devoted to swimming, recreative bathing, or wading and for which 
an individual is charged a fee for the use of such area for such purposes. Appurtenances used in 
connection with the natural swimming area shall also be included. 
8. 
“Person” means individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, governmental 
agency, club, or organization of any kind. 
9. 
“Plumb” means a line perpendicular to water surface and extending vertically to a point located at 
the front end of the diving board and at the center line directly in front of the diving board. 
10. 
“Pool” means swimming pool, wading pool, spray pool, spa or the like. 
11. 
“Private Pool” means any pool which is constructed in connection with or appurtenant to single 
family dwellings, condominiums or apartment houses, and which is used solely by the persons 
maintaining their residence within such dwellings, condominiums or apartment houses and the 
guests of such persons. Private pools are exempt from these regulations. 
12. 
“Public Bath” includes any mineral bath, bath house, public baths, and similar facilities which 
provide a contained water environment for immersion of the body, or provide a hot vapor 
environment for any purpose. 
13. 
“Public Pool” means a pool that is not a private pool under definition 11, nor semi-public pool 
under Definition 17. 
14. 
“Radius of curvature” means the radius arc denoting the curved surface from the point or 
departure from the springline (vertical sidewall) of the pool to the pool bottom. 
15. 
“Remodeled” means an extension, enlargement or modification of any public swimming area or 
related facility. 
16. 
“Safety Ledge” means a subsurface slip resistant ledge attached to the side of the pool used as a 
foot hold. 
17. 
“Semi-public pool” means a pool associated with hotels, motels, country clubs, health clubs and 
mobile home parks. 
18. 
“Spa” or “Hot Tub” means a pool designed for relaxation, recreational, or therapeutical use where 
the user is sitting, reclining, or at rest and the pool is not drained, cleaned, or refilled for each 
user. The spa may include, but not be limited to, hydrojet circulation, hot water, cold water, 
mineral baths, or air induction bubbles or any combination. 
19. 
“Spray pool” means a pool or artificially constructed depression for use by bathers in which water 
is sprayed, but is not allowed to pond, in the bottom of the pool. 
20. 
“Superchlorination” means the periodic addition of sufficient amounts of an oxidizer to eliminate 
combined chlorine compounds (ammonia nitrogen or chloramine products) normally formed in 
pool or spa water. 
21. 
“Swimming area” means a designated body of water of such volume and depth that one or more 
persons can swim in it and which is used for the purpose of swimming, recreative bathing, or 
wading and includes natural swimming areas and swimming pools.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
4 
22. 
“Swimming pool” means a body of water, other than a natural swimming area, maintained 
exclusively for swimming, recreative bathing, or wading and includes appurtenances used in 
connection with the swimming pool. 
23. 
“Therapeutic Pool” means a pool used for physical therapy including but not limited to post-
operative and pre-operative strength training, assistance of buoyancy of water, and other one-on-
one training. 
24. 
“Turnover rate” means the time necessary to circulate the entire volume of the pool water through 
the filtration system. 
25. 
“Vertical” means a line perpendicular to the water surface that is not greater than 11 percent off 
plumb. 
26. 
“Wading Pool” means any artificial pool of water equal to or less than 18" deep and intended for 
wading purposes. 
ARTICLE II 
SUBMISSION OF PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS: 
At least thirty (30) days prior to the construction, extension, enlarging, remodeling or modification of a 
public swimming area or related facilities, the plans and specifications complete with piping layout, 
equipment and mechanical specifications along with design calculations, shall be submitted for review 
and recommendations to the Colorado Department of Health which may direct that such plans and 
specifications be submitted to the municipality or other political subdivision in which the swimming area is 
or may be located rather than to the Department of Health. This section does not prohibit any municipality 
from requiring that the plans also be submitted to the proper authority of the municipality. 
Public pool or semi-public pool facilities shall be built so as to conform to minimum design standards set 
forth in Article II below. The owner or his agent shall notify the Colorado Department of Health at the time 
of the beginning and completion of the pool to permit adequate inspection of the pool and related 
equipment. Upon completion of construction, a written certification from the public pool owner or his agent 
stating that the facility was built as approved must be submitted to the Colorado Department Health. The 
public pool or semi-public pool shall not be placed in use until all facilities necessary for compliance with 
the requirements of these regulations are installed and operable and approved by The Colorado 
Department of Health. 
Professional service or creative work including consultation, investigation, evaluation planning, design 
surveying, and supervision of construction for the purpose of assuring compliance with these 
specifications and design requirements must be performed by a Registered Professional Engineer. 
Request for review of plans and specifications form is included at the end of these regulations. The form 
must be completed and submitted with the plans and specifications. 
ARTICLE III 
DESIGN CRITERIA: 
Public pools or semi-public pools built or remodeled after the effective date of these regulations shall 
conform to these minimum design criteria.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
5 
3.1 
SURFACE, SHAPE, DESIGN, SLOPES: 
Spas will be a maximum of four (4) feet deep. Wading pools will be a maximum of eighteen (18) inches 
deep in the center and twelve (12) inches at the sidewalls. The public pool shall be designed and 
constructed so that efficient and safe control of the area and bathers can be accomplished and so that the 
recirculation of water in the pool is not impeded. The slope of the bottom of any portion of the pool having 
a water depth of less than five (5) feet shall not be more than one (1) foot in twelve (12) feet and said 
slope shall be uniform. 
In portions at the break where the shallow end (water five (5) feet deep or less) goes into to the deep end 
of the pool, the slope shall not exceed one (1) foot in three (3) feet. Walls of a pool shall be either (a) 
vertical for water depths of at least six (6) feet or (b) vertical for a distance of three (3) feet below the 
water level below which the wall may curve to the bottom. 
Depth markers shall be a minimum of four (4) inch numerals in a contrasting color on the deck, and four 
(4) inch numerals in a contrasting color on the vertical wall at or above water level. The dimensions of the 
pool in the diving area shall conform to the following table. (This drawing does not show shallow portions 
of the pool.) 
 
Note: 
L4 Is a minimum dimension to allow sufficient length opposite the board. This may of course be lengthened to form the 
shallow portion of the pool. 
 
Related Diving 
Equipment 
Minimum Dimensions 
Minimum 
 Width of Pool at 
Max 
Diving 
Board 
length 
Max  
Board 
Height 
Over 
Water  
D1 
D2 
R1 
L1 
L2 
L3 
L4 
L5 
PT.A 
PT.B 
PT.C 
210' 
26" (2/3 
meter) 
7’-0” 
8’-6” 
5’-6” 
2’-6” 
8’-0” 
10’-6’ 
7’-0” 
28’-0” 
16’-0” 
18’-0” 
18’-0” 
12' 
30" (3/4 
meter) 
7’-6” 
9’-0” 
6’-0” 
3’-0” 
9’-0” 
12’-0” 
4’-0” 
28’-0” 
18’-0” 
20’-0” 
20’-0” 
16' 1 
1 meter 
8’-6” 
10’-0” 
7’-0” 
4’-0” 
10’-0” 
15’-0” 
2’-0” 
31’-0” 
20’-0” 
22’-0” 
22’-0” 
16' 3 
3 meter 
11’-0” 
12’-0” 
8’-6” 
6’-0” 
10’-6” 
21’-0” 
  0 
37’-6” 
22’-0” 
24’-0” 
24’-0” 
L1, L3, L4, combined represent the minimum distance from the tip of board to pool wall opposite diving equipment.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
6 
At least fifteen (15) feet of free and unobstructed head room including free from electrical wires and 
fixtures, shall be provided above diving boards. Horizontal separation of ten (10) feet shall be provided 
between the center line of diving boards and side walls except this may be reduced to eight (8) feet for 
surface boards less than ½ meter above water surface. 
The minimum depth of water in areas dedicated for competitive events shall be four (4) feet. Attached 
wading areas shall be separated from the main pool(s) by a safety barrier or buoy line attached to the 
side walls. Separate wading pools shall be completely fenced with a three (3) foot high fence. 
3.2 
DECK AREAS: 
The deck areas of all pools shall have a minimum of five (5) feet of unobstructed deck width measured 
from the water's edge. The deck area shall be impervious and easily cleanable and entirely surround the 
pool. Water will not be allowed to puddle or pond on the deck. The deck area shall have a slope of not 
less than ¼ inch per foot and not more than ½ inch per foot directed to adequate drains or away from the 
pool. The deck shall have a non-slip finish. When deck drains are provided they should be so located that 
the deck drain will service not more than four hundred (400) square feet of the deck area. Deck drains 
shall be located not more than fifteen (15) feet on centers. 
3.3 
OVERFLOW GUTTERS: 
The overflow gutter when provided, shall extend around the entire perimeter of the pool, except at steps 
or recessed ladders. The overflow gutter lip shall be level within .3 inch. This gutter shall be capable of 
continuously removing 100 percent of the recirculated water for return to the filter. All overflow gutters 
shall be connected to the recirculation system through a properly designed surge system. The gutter, 
drains and return piping to the surge system shall be designed to rapidly remove overflow water caused 
by recirculation displacement, wave action or other causes produced from the maximum pool bathing 
load. Gutters shall be designed to prevent entrance or entrapment of bathers. The overflow outlets shall 
be provided with outlet pipes which shall in any case be at least two (2) inches in diameter. Outlets shall 
be a maximum of fifteen (15) feet apart and opening in grating less than 1.5 times cross-sectional pipe 
area. 
3.4 
SKIMMERS: 
All skimmers, when provided, shall comply in all respects with the NSF standards. At least one skimmer 
shall be provided for each 400 square feet of water surface or fraction thereof, with a minimum of two 
skimmers on opposite sides and at opposite ends. The skimmers shall be capable of continuously 
removing 100 percent of the designed turnover rate. The skimmers shall be built into the pool wall. The 
skimmers shall be adjustable and shall operate freely with continuous action to variations in water level 
over a range of at least four (4) inches. 
All parts of the skimmer must be in place and in good operating condition. An easily removable and 
cleanable, properly fitting basket or screen shall be provided, through which all overflow water must pass 
to trap trash and debris with deck top access to facilitate cleaning. Each skimmer shall be provided with 
an equalizer line and skimmer equalizer line check valves. The equalizer pipe shall provide an adequate 
amount of water for pump suction should the water of the pool drop below the weir level. Weirs and float 
valves must be in place and in proper working condition. If any other device, surge tank or arrangement is 
used, a sufficient amount of water for pump suction shall be assured.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
7 
3.5 
INLETS: 
Pool inlets shall be submerged a minimum of twelve (12) inches below the water surface and located to 
produce uniform water and chemical circulation throughout the pool with a maximum interval of fifteen 
(15) feet on walls. Wall and floor inlets shall have adjustable orifices; and if side wall inlets are used, they 
must have adjustable directional flow capability. Stainless steel gutters are exempt but must meet 
manufacturers specifications. 
Floor inlets shall be placed at fifteen (15) foot intervals, and the distance from floor inlets to wall shall not 
exceed fifteen (15) feet. 
3.6 
MAINDRAINS: 
All pools shall be provided with a minimum of two maindrains, connected to a common line and evenly 
spaced at the deepest point to facilitate proper bottom circulation and permit the pool to be completely 
and easily emptied. Each maindrain must have the capacity to handle 100 percent of designed turnover 
rate. Maindrains shall be covered by proper grating which is secured. Openings of the grating shall be at 
least four (4) times the area of the suction line. No direct connections to sewers shall be permitted. 
3.7 
STEPS, LADDERS, DIVING PLATFORMS AND DIVING TOWERS: 
Steps or ladders shall be provided at the shallow end of the pool if the vertical distance from the bottom of 
the pool to the deck or walk is over two (2) feet. Recessed steps or ladders shall be provided at the deep 
portion of the pool and if the pool is over thirty (30) feet wide, such steps or ladders shall be installed on 
each side. Ladders shall be located so that divers need not turn back to reach them. Stairs leading into 
the pool shall be of non-slip design, have a minimum tread width of twelve (12) inches and a maximum 
height of ten (10) inches. A minimum of one handrail shall be required at the stairs leading into the 
shallow end. The stairs shall have a two (2) inch wide contrasting color tread edge, and shall be clearly 
visible to the user. There shall be a clearance of not more than five (5) inches nor less than three (3) 
inches between any ladder and the pool wall. Ladders shall have non slip treads. If steps are inserted in 
the wall or if stepholes are provided, they shall be of such design that they may be cleaned readily and 
shall be arranged to drain into the pool to prevent the accumulation of dirt therein. Stepholes shall have a 
minimum tread depth of five (5) inches. Where stepholes and ladders are provided within the pool, there 
shall be a handrail at the top of both sides thereof, extending over for the edge of the coping or the edge 
of the deck. Stepholes shall have a contrasting color to the wall in which they are placed. Supports, 
platforms and steps for diving boards/towers shall be of substantial construction and of sufficient 
structural strength to safely carry the maximum anticipated loads. Steps shall be of corrosion-resistant 
material and of non-slip design. Handrails shall be provided at all steps and ladders leading to diving 
boards more than ½ meter above the water. Platforms and diving boards more than ½ meter high shall be 
protected with guard railings. 
Starting blocks must be structurally sound and secured in place. Starting blocks must be removable. 
Maximum height of starting blocks over water less than to four (4) feet deep is eighteen (18) inches above 
the water surface. Starting blocks shall be clearly labeled, “NO DIVING.” 
3.8 
HOSE BIBBS: 
A sufficient number of hose bibbs with hose bibb vacuum breaker backflow preventers for cleaning the 
deck areas shall be provided. These hose bibbs shall be placed to allow the proper cleaning of entire 
deck with a maximum hose length of fifty (50) feet. Water pressure shall be sufficient to provide effective 
cleaning and shall not effect the water pressure in other parts of the building or the appurtenances 
serving the pool.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
8 
3.9 
SUCTION CLEANER: 
Equipment shall be provided to remove sediment, sludge and other accumulations from the bottom of the 
pool. The pool shall be provided with adequate suction to operate the cleaning device. Adequate suction 
is defined as the ability to sufficiently remove all normal accumulations from the pool bottom. Vacuum 
pipes shall be at least 1 ½ inches in diameter and vacuum hoses shall have a diameter of at least 1 ½ 
inches. 
3.10 
EQUIPMENT ROOMS/RECIRCULATION SYSTEMS/APPURTENANCES: 
The recirculation system shall consist of pumping equipment, hair and lint baskets, filters, flowmeters, 
valves, backflow preventers, and gauges, together with all necessary pipe connections to the inlets and 
outlets of the pool and means for backwashing filters. All of the above mentioned equipment shall be in 
good working order. Disinfection equipment, with the exception of chlorine gas may be housed in the 
equipment room. The entire system and all of its component parts shall be capable of producing a 
minimum of a six (6) hour turnover in all pools with the exception of spas and wading pools. Wading pools 
shall have a minimum turnover rate of one (1) hour and spas shall have a minimum turnover rate of ½ 
hour. If the pump is located above the overflow level of the pool, the pump shall be self-priming. Pumps 
shall be capable of supplying the required recirculation rate at the maximum total dynamic head attained 
during operation. The hair/lint basket shall be installed on the suction side of the pump when the pump 
precedes the filter. The hair/lint basket shall have the following design features: 
1. 
Water shall pass through the basket from the inside to the outside. 
2. 
The basket shall be constructed of corrosion resistant material. 
3. 
The area of the basket openings shall be at least ten (10) times the area of the inlet pipe into the 
basket. 
4. 
The width or the diameter of the basket mesh openings shall not be more than 1/8 inch. 
5. 
A removable basket with perforated openings shall be provided unless sufficient cause can be 
shown for using some other type. 
6. 
Two appropriate baskets, one in use and one spare, shall be on hand for each hair/lint pot. 
The recirculation system shall be installed in accordance to all manufacturers specifications. 
3.11 
DISINFECTANT AND CHEMICAL FEEDERS: 
All chemical feeders shall comply in all respects with the standards of the NSF covering such equipment. 
Feeders shall be of sturdy construction and materials which will withstand wear, corrosion or attack by the 
solutions being fed. Feeders shall have a graduated and clearly marked dosage adjustment to provide 
flows from full capacity to 25 percent of such capacity. The device shall be capable of continuous delivery 
within 10 percent of the dosage at any setting and shall be capable of supplying dosages at the rates 
needed to provide the residuals required by these regulations and standards. The feeder shall incorporate 
failure proof features, so the chemicals/disinfectant cannot feed directly into the pool, water supply or the 
pool enclosure under any type of failure of the equipment or its maintenance. The feeder shall be capable 
of supplying at least the minimum equivalent of one (1) pound of chlorine per twenty-four (24) hours for 
each ten thousand (10,000) gallons of pool capacity under conditions of maximum load. All chemicals 
shall be introduced downstream from the heater. 
Owners applying chemicals for controlling pH through chemical feed equipment shall provide equipment 
with:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
9 
1. 
Adequate size and design to allow routine cleaning and maintenance; 
2. 
Material resistant to chemical action; 
3. 
Means for automatic shut off when pool flow is interrupted; 
4. 
Means for automatic or mechanical chemical feed equipment for pH control shall be used on all 
pools of fifty thousand (50,000) gals volume or greater; 
5. 
Any pool feeding caustic soda (NaOH), carbon dioxide(CO2), or Department of Health approved 
disinfectants shall be automated, metered and controlled as directed by the manufacturer and the 
Department of Health. 
3.12 
SAND FILTERS: 
All sand filters shall comply in all respects with the standards of the NSF covering such filters. Sand filters 
shall be properly sized to achieve the proper turnover rate without exceeding the maximum flow rate for 
the filter design. Rapid sand filters shall be sized for a filter rate not to exceed 3-5 gal./min./sq.ft. High rate 
sand filters shall be sized to operate at a filter flow rate of 15-20 gpm/sq.ft. The underdrain system shall 
be of corrosion resistant and durable material so designed and of such material that the orifices or other 
openings will maintain an approximate constant area. It shall be designed to provide even collection or 
distribution of the flow during filtration and backwashing. The filter system shall be provided with a rate of 
flow indicator, a method of air release of the filter tank, and pressure gauges, all in good operating 
condition. A backwash sight glass shall be provided. The recommended sand specifications must be 
provided with each filter on a plate on the filter tank in an easily readable location. Backwash lines shall 
not be restricted in any way between the filter and the sanitary sewer. 
3.13 
DIATOMACEOUS EARTH FILTERS: 
All diatomaceous earth (DE) filters, whether of the vacuum or pressure type, shall comply in all respects 
with the standards of the NSF covering such filters. Rate of Filtration: The filter area shall be such that the 
rate of filtration shall not be greater than 1.5 gpm/sq. ft. or that specified by the NSF for the specific filter 
in use to achieve the proper turnover rate for the pool. Where DE body feed is provided, the device shall 
be accurate, within 10 percent, and shall be dependable. The filter and all component parts shall be of 
such materials, design and construction to withstand normal continuous use without significant 
deformation, deterioration, corrosion or wear which could adversely effect filter operation. The filter shall 
be so designed and constructed to eliminate the possibility of introduction of the DE into the pool. The 
filter plant shall be provided with such pressure, vacuum or compound gauges as are required to indicate 
the condition of the filter. All filters shall be equipped for cleaning. Provisions shall be made to completely 
and rapidly drain the filter. A rate of flow indicator shall be provided on the filter system. Backwash lines 
shall not be restricted in any way between the filter and the sanitary sewer. 
3.14 
CARTRIDGE FILTERS: 
Cartridge filters must meet NSF standards. Maximum flow rate is .375 gpm/F2. Air relief valve pressure 
gauges must be in place and in good operating condition. There must be no filter by-pass of any kind. 
3.15 
MAKE-UP WATER FACILITIES AND CROSS CONNECTIONS: 
All potable pool makeup water shall be introduced through a reduced pressure principle backflow 
preventer (RP) accepted by the Colorado Department of Health, Water Quality Control Division or fill 
spout with an air gap at least twice the diameter of the fill pipe. The pool fill spout shall be located under a 
low diving board or adjacent to a handrail and not extrude past the edge of the pool more than 1-½ times 
the diameter of the pipe. Water pressure shall be such so as to allow the fill line to operate at full valving 
and not interfere with water pressure in the other parts of the facility.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
10 
All other accessories to the recirculation system, such as chemical solution feeders and water fed 
chlorinators shall be protected against backflow into the water supply system by installation of an 
approved reduced pressure principle backflow preventer. The backflow preventer must be tested on 
installation and at least annually thereafter by a certified cross-connection control technician. 
3.16 
PIPING SYSTEM: 
The piping system shall be so designed to reduce friction losses to a minimum with maximum flowrate. 
The maximum rate of flow in suction plumbing shall not exceed 7 feet per second. The maximum rate of 
flow in return plumbing shall not exceed 10 feet per second. Flanged joints or unions shall be inserted at 
intervals to permit any part of the system to be taken down for cleaning or repairs. The piping system of 
the pool shall be labeled and color coded to identify filtered water, raw water, wastewater, vacuum 
cleaning lines and heating lines. The color code shall be as follows: 
 
Raw Water 
Yellow 
Filtered Water 
Green 
Wastewater 
Black 
Heated Water 
Red 
Vacuum Cleaning Lines 
Blue 
A vacuum gauge shall be installed in the suction line prior to the pump. A flow meter shall be provided to 
measure the total flow of the system. Flow meters shall be placed on a pipe length of no less than eight 
(8) feet and away from elbows and other flow restrictive equipment in accordance to manufacturer's 
specifications. Directional flow arrows shall be in place on all lines. A complete schematic diagram of the 
entire pool system shall be in place in the mechanical room and be of such size and design as to be 
easily read. It shall be of such construction so as to remain in good condition and readable at all times. 
The schematic shall include a valve legend, pump schedule and complete operating instructions for the 
entire system. 
3.17 
EMERGENCY SHUTDOWN CONTROL: 
An emergency shutdown station shall be provided at a place that is relatively convenient to the lifeguards, 
yet secured from the public. This station shall disable all pool circulation, mechanical, chemical feed and 
electrical devices and must be accessible to a standing adult. 
3.18 
MECHANICAL ROOM 
This room will provide a (2) two foot minimum clearance and/or in accordance to manufacturers 
specifications around all pool mechanical and recirculation equipment to allow access for servicing and 
repairs. The room shall be located in such a manner that it may not be entered from the shower rooms or 
from the pool area by unauthorized persons. The floors shall have a minimum slope of ¼ inch per foot 
toward the drains. The floor drains shall be of such number and placement so as to ensure a dry floor at 
all times. The drains from the mechanical equipment room shall not discharge to a sewer or drain which 
may overload. Miscellaneous equipment, chemicals, and appurtenances shall not be stored in the pool 
mechanical equipment room.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
11 
3.19 
LIGHTING ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS: 
All pools constructed with underwater lighting shall have not less than 500W/1000 sq.ft. of pool surface 
area. All indoor pools and all outdoor pools operated at night shall have artificial lighting sufficient to 
permit the maindrains to be clearly visible, at all times. Such lights shall be spaced to provide illumination 
so that all portions of the pool may be readily seen without glare. Area lighting shall provide at least 0.6 W 
per square foot of deck area and/or surrounding area within the enclosure around the pool. If such light is 
used for night swimming, area and pool lighting combined shall provide at least 10-foot candles of 
illumination per square foot of pool area. Ground fault interrupters shall be provided for all lights and 
electrical outlets of the pool complex, including dressing rooms and mechanical equipment rooms. All 
electrical wiring shall conform with the current National Electrical code of the National Underwriters 
Laboratory or equivalent. No overhead electrical wiring shall pass within 20 feet of the pool enclosure. 
3.20 
DRESSING ROOMS: 
The dressing rooms shall be located adjacent to the locker or checkroom and showers. The layout of the 
dressing rooms for the exclusive use of swimmers shall be such that the bathers, on leaving the dressing 
room, shall pass the toilets and showers enroute to the swimming pool. 
Dressing rooms, toilet facilities and shower rooms are required for all pools except those provided in 
connection with lodging facilities where the pool is not available to the public not occupying such facilities 
(hotels, motels, mobile home parks, campgrounds) and shall be handicapped accessible. 
Floors of toilet and shower rooms shall have a minimum slope of one-fourth (¼) inch per foot to the 
drains. 
Floors of toilet, shower rooms and dressing rooms shall be of smooth non-slip finish and shall be 
impervious to moisture. No carpeting is permitted. 
Hose bibbs of three-fourths (¾) inch minimum size and served by not less than three-fourths (¾) inch 
pipe shall be provided to enable the entire toilet and shower room to be conveniently flushed by hose. 
The material used for walls, partitions, and furniture shall be such that it can be easily cleaned and will not 
be damaged by frequent hosing, wetting,or disinfection. 
Dressing rooms to be used simultaneously by both males and females shall be divided into two parts 
separated by a tight solid partition, with no openings; each part shall be designed for males or females. 
The entrances and exits shall be screened to break line of sight. 
3.21 
TOILETS: 
Toilet facilities shall be provided for both males and females and shall be accessible to disabled persons. 
Flush water closets with elongated bowls, and urinals shall be provided and shall be kept clean and 
properly maintained. The ratio of water closets shall be one (1) closet and one (1) urinal for each sixty 
(60) men and one (1) water closet for each forty (40) women expected at the time of maximum load. All 
fixtures shall be properly protected against back siphonage. Partitions, walls and ceilings shall be 
constructed of material not adversely affected by steam, water, or disinfectants. 
Toilet rooms shall be ventilated so that no odor nuisance can exist.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
12 
3.22 
SHOWER FACILITES: 
Separate shower facilities shall be provided for males and females shall be accessible to disabled 
persons, and, when provided for the exclusive use of swimmers, shall be so located that bathers must 
pass through the shower room before entering into the swimming pool area. The minimum number of 
showers provided shall be in proportion of one (1) to each forty (40) bathers expected at the time of 
maximum load. The ceilings and walls of the shower room or area shall be constructed of smooth, 
impervious, easily cleanable material, not adversely affected by steam or water. The floors of the shower 
room or area shall be constructed of non-slip, impervious, easily cleanable material, not adversely 
affected by steam or water. 
Showers shall be supplied with water at a temperature of at least 90°F with a minimum rate of three (3) 
gallons of water per shower per minute. Thermostatic tempering, or mixing valves shall be installed if 
necessary to prevent scalding of bathers. 
Where shower booths are provided in the shower room, the booth partitions shall be of a material which 
will not be damaged by shower water and shall have a minimum clearance of six (6) inches above the 
floor. Shower rooms shall be provided with at least ten (10) foot candles of light upon all surfaces so that 
all parts are visible for easy cleaning. 
3.24 
FENCING 
Every swimming pool in a non-restricted public place shall be fenced to prevent unauthorized access to 
the pool except through controlled entrances. A building or structure can serve as a fence or barrier. 
Fencing shall be a minimum of sixty inches (60") high, and shall have self-closing, self-latching gates, 
with the latch a minimum of fifty four (54) inches high. Wrought Iron fence picket spacing shall not be 
greater than four (4) inches. Entrances shall be handicapped accessible. Local building codes or 
ordinances shall preempt this requirement, provided that said codes or ordinances are more stringent 
than the requirements in this section. 
ARTICLE IV 
SANITARY STANDARDS: 
All public and semi-public pools shall conform to these minimum standards. 
4.1 
DISINFECTION 
1. 
Disinfection Equipment General: 
A. 
All pools shall be provided with an automatic or mechanical means of adding a 
disinfectant to the swimming pool water. Manual addition of chemicals or chemical 
solutions will be allowed only under special or emergency conditions which require that 
the pool be closed. During such condition, the pool must remain closed at least one pool 
turnover or until such time as the chemical is thoroughly dispersed throughout the pool 
water. After hand treatment for breakpoint disinfection and algae prevention, use of the 
pool may be resumed when the free disinfectant level drops within the range specified in 
Table 1, Section 4.7. 
B. 
General Requirements (Disinfection Equipment): Chemical feeder equipment shall 
comply with all of the following: 
1. 
Equipment shall be capable of being easily disassembled for cleaning and repair. 
2. 
Equipment shall be constructed of corrosion-resistant materials.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
13 
3. 
Equipment shall be constructed to permit repeat adjustments without loss of 
output rate accuracy. 
4. 
Equipment shall be constructed to minimize a stoppage from debris, chemicals 
intended to be used therein and/or from foreign materials that may be contained 
in said chemicals. 
5. 
Equipment shall be designed specifically for the type of disinfectant to be used. 
6. 
Equipment shall be provided with controls for adjusting rate of flow of 
disinfectant. 
7. 
Equipment shall conform to the National Sanitation Foundation, (Standard 50) 
Swimming Pools, Spas, and Hot Tubs Circulation System Components, February 
1, 1993. 
8. 
Y strainers shall be installed in the disinfectant feeder supply line. 
9. 
No connection shall be made to an external water supply for disinfection system 
operation. 
C. 
Disinfection Point of Application: The application point of disinfectant shall be located in 
the return line downstream of the filter, recirculation pump, heater, and flow meter. 
2. 
Chlorine Gas Equipment: 
A. 
All chlorine gas equipment must comply with Section 4.1(1)(A&B). 
B. 
Housing: A dedicated, well ventilated house or room at ground level shall be provided 
exclusively for chlorine gas purposes. The lockable door shall have a foot square “one-
light” shatterproof and gas tight window to allow observation of conditions in the room 
prior to entering. The door shall not open to the swimming pool or deck and shall open to 
the outside. The door of the chlorine room shall have “panic hardware.” The house or 
room shall be located so that chlorine gas, if accidentally released, will not flow into the 
pool area, mechanical room, or into the building ventilation, (i.e., opposite side of pool 
from the direction of prevailing winds) 
C. 
Exhaust Ventilation: Sufficient ventilation shall be provided to allow one complete air 
change in the chlorination room every minute. The air exhaust duct shall be located 
within six (6) inches of the floor level. A louvered fresh air intake shall be provided near 
the ceiling to serve as a make-up air supply when the exhaust fan is operating. The 
exhaust fan shall be wired to a control switch which is located outside and adjacent to the 
chlorine room door. The exhaust ducting shall terminate at a point not less than 8 (eight) 
feet above surrounding grade. Exhaust duct termination point shall be outside of the 
building, away from any occupied area or any fresh air intake. 
D. 
Lighting: A minimum of 10 (ten) foot candles of illumination shall be provided and 
electrical switches for control of the lighting shall be located on the outside and adjacent 
to the chlorine room door. 
E. 
Chlorine Feeder Seals: A new washer or gasket approved for use on chlorine gas shall 
be used each time a chlorine cylinder is connected to the chlorinator. Spare 
washers/gaskets shall be kept on site.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
14 
F. 
Vent Line: The vent line exhaust duct and/or pressure relief valve from the gas chlorinator 
and/or chlorine room shall vent away from any occupied area or any fresh air intake. 
G. 
Leakage Test Kit: A leakage test kit consisting of ammonia (23° Baume) water and shall 
be provided. 
H. 
Respiratory Protection Equipment: At least one Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus 
(SCBA) minimum thirty (30) minute capacity certified by the National institute for 
Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH)-shall be provided, operative and hung to a 
conspicuous place outside the chlorination room in an area easily accessible to pool 
employees. A cabinet may be utilized to provide security for the SCBA. Monthly working 
condition checks of the SCBA shall be done and records kept thereto. Pool employees 
shall be trained in the proper use of SCBA equipment. 
I. 
Chlorine Cylinders: Chlorine cylinders shall be anchored in an upright position to prevent 
falling over. A valve stem wrench shall be maintained on any cylinder in use, so the 
supply can be shut off quickly in case of an emergency. The valve protection hood shall 
be kept in place, except when the cylinder is connected to the feeder. Empty chlorine gas 
cylinders shall be tagged as such. Full and empty chlorine gas cylinders shall be stored 
only in the chlorine room. 
J. 
Platform Scales: Platform scales for chlorine cylinder(s) shall be provided for cylinder(s) 
in use. Said scales shall be capable of indicating gross weight within one half (½) pound 
accuracy. 
K. 
The chlorinator shall be a solution-feed type, capable of delivering chlorine at its 
maximum rate without releasing chlorine gas to the atmosphere. 
L. 
The chlorinators shall be designed to prevent the backflow of water into the chlorine 
regulator. 
M. 
The gas chlorine room shall have a Hazardous Materials classification sign affixed to the 
entry door. This sign shall use the National Fire Protection Association Hazard Rating 
System as shown below specific for gas chlorine. 
 
N. 
The recirculatory pump and chlorine booster pump motor controls shall be interlocked so 
that the booster pump cannot operate when the recirculating pump is off or during the 
back wash cycle. 
3. 
Chlorinated Hypochlorites and Chlorinated Isocyanurates: 
A. 
All hypochlorite and Chlorinated Isocyanurate dispensing equipment shall comply with 
Section 4.1(1)(A&B).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
15 
B. 
When a hypochlorite solution is used, it shall be fed through hypochlorinator equipment. 
Such equipment shall also provide the following additional features: 
(1) 
Positive feed under all conditions of pressure in the circulating system, without 
artificial constriction of the pump suction line, whether this line is under vacuum 
or pressure. 
(2) 
Regulation to insure constant feed with varying supply of back pressure. 
(3) 
Positive features to prevent backflow from recirculation system to the solution 
container and provision for reducing to a minimum the entry into swimming pool 
of free calcium released from calcium hypochlorite. 
(4) 
Provision to prevent siphoning of hypochlorite solution when the recirculation 
pump and hypochlorinator are both turned off. (This applies to above swimming 
pool level installations only.) 
C. 
Pools using Chlorinated Isocyanurate or Chlorinated Hypochlorites shall have onsite and 
available either a Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus as required in Section 4.1(2)(H) or 
have available a canister type respirator approved by either the U.S. Bureau of Mines or 
NIOSH for use with chlorine. Canister type respirators must have available canisters 
which have not exceeded their manufactures expiration date. Canister dates should be 
checked monthly and recorded on the record. This respiratory protection device shall be 
stored outside the chlorine area, be kept in good working order, and be easily accessible 
to the employee. 
4. 
Bromine: 
Bromination equipment, if employed, shall meet the provision of Section 4.7 
5. 
Other Disinfectant Equipment and Methods: 
Other disinfecting equipment or materials may be used if they have been adequately demonstrated to the 
Colorado Department of Health and/or its authorized agent to provide a satisfactory residual effect which 
is easily measured or where demonstration and analysis provide assurance that results are effective 
under conditions of use to meet the water quality standards set forth in these regulations and not be 
dangerous to public health, create objectionable physiological effects, or, impart toxic properties to the 
water. 
6. 
Storage and Handling of Chemicals: 
A. 
All chemicals shall be kept out of reach of children. 
B. 
Chemicals shall be stored in original containers; with the original lids securely in place; 
out of the sunlight; in a cool, dry, well ventilated area. Chemicals supplied in bulk bag 
form shall be stored in clearly marked corrosive resistant containers with tightly fitted lids. 
C. 
Chemicals shall not be stored near a heat source, open flame, or electrical equipment. 
D. 
Sanitizers or oxidizers shall not be stored in the same area as pool equipment. 
E. 
Liquid chemicals shall not be stored above or adjacent to dry chemicals. 
F. 
Pool chemicals shall not be stored in the same area as insecticides, herbicides, fertilizers 
or liquid petroleum products.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
16 
G. 
Chemicals shall not be stored above eye level. 
H. 
Shelving used for chemical storage shall be secure. 
I. 
Acids shall be stored separately from all bases. 
J. 
Chemicals packaged in absorbent containers shall be kept at least six (6) inches off the 
floor on nonflammable surfaces. 
K. 
All chemical storage areas shall be kept dean. 
L. 
Manufactures label instruction shall be complied with. 
M. 
Separate measuring devices for each chemical shall be used. These measuring devices 
shall be clean, dry and constructed of material compatible with the chemical to be 
measured. Glass shall not be used. 
N. 
Chemicals shall be added to water, water shall never be added to chemicals. 
O. 
Oxidizers shall not be mixed with any other chemicals. 
P. 
Chemicals shall not be mixed with powdered chlorine or liquid chlorine. 
Q. 
Smoking, eating, or drinking shall not be allowed when using chemicals. 
R. 
Disposal of chemicals and/or empty containers shall be in accordance with label 
instructions. 
4.2 
EQUIPMENT AND PERSONNEL: (Rule 4.2 was not extended by SB 96-236 and therefore 
expired May 15, 1996) 
4.3 
SWIMMING POOL WATER SUPPLY: 
1. 
The potable water supply serving the swimming pool, plumbing fixtures, drinking fountains, 
showers, and other water using devices shall be to compliance with the minimum sanitary 
standards for drinking water as set forth in Colorado Primary Drinking Water Regulations, 5 
C.C.R. 1003-1. 
2. 
The potable water supply shall be delivered at a sufficient rate to enable the swimming pool and 
all other water using devices to be operated satisfactorily. 
3. 
There shall be no unprotected cross-connections between the potable water supply and the 
swimming pool recirculation piping. 
4.4 
WATER TESTING EQUIPMENT: 
Every swimming pool shall be provided with water testing equipment for the following determinations: 
1. 
A test-kit for determining the hydrogen ion concentration in the pH range of six and eight-tenths 
(6.8) to eight (8.0). 
2. 
A test-kit determining the residuals of the disinfectants in current use. This test kit must 
encompass the minimum to maximum range denoted in Table 1, Section 4.7. 
3. 
A test-kit for the determination of total alkalinity.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
17 
4. 
A test-kit for the determination of the cyanuric acid concentration if said chemical is being used as 
a chlorine stabilizer. 
5. 
A test-kit for determination of calcium hardness. 
6. 
A hand thermometer accurate to ±2°F shall be available to check the temperature of the water in 
the pool itself. 
All test-kits must have reagents that are not outdated. Other testing equipment may be required by the 
Colorado Department of Health with changing technology or use of other specific methods of disinfection. 
4.5 
BACTERIAL QUALITY: 
1. 
The bacterial quality of the water in pools shall not have a fecal coliform density in excess of one 
per 100 ml at any time. 
2. 
Any water sample obtained from pools shall not contain more than 200 bacteria per milliliter, as 
determined by the Standard (35 degrees Celsius) Plate Count per the 18th edition of Standard 
Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater (1992). 
3. 
The water samples used in any bacterial analysis will be examined using the procedures outlined 
in the 18th edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater (1992). 
4. 
Should any two consecutive water samples taken from pools exceed the bacterial standards in 
“1” and/or “2” above, the facility shall be immediately closed until the bacterial quality of the water 
is within the required parameters. 
4.6 
WATER QUALITY STANDARDS FOR NATURAL SWIMMING AREAS 
1) 
Natural swimming areas are required to meet the following standards for bacteriological quality. 
A. 
Maximum contaminant level is: 
1. 
235 Escherichia coli. per 100 ml sample [see appendix B]. 
B. 
Natural swimming areas shall take bacteriological samples at a minimum of once every 
seven (7) days and no less than five (5) times in a calendar month during use periods. At 
least one time per calendar month, natural swim areas shall take bacteriological samples 
at least 24 hours prior to the beginning of a peak-use period and within 24 hours after the 
end of the same peak use period. Timely response to water quality problems require that 
the results of this sampling must be known within 3 days of the sampling. 
C. 
If several bacteriological samples are taken in one day, those parts of the natural 
swimming area with results exceeding the maximum contaminant levels listed in (A) 
above must be closed to the public. 
D. 
Except as provided in subsection E., a natural swimming area shall be closed 
immediately upon receipt of any sampling result which indicates that the E. coli density 
exceeds 235 organisms per 100 ml.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
18 
E. 
Owners/operators of natural swimming areas that have entered into a memorandum of 
agreement with the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment pursuant to 
this subsection, and that are operating in full compliance with such agreement, shall 
close all natural swimming areas immediately upon receipt of sampling information which 
indicates that the results of a second sample for E. coli density exceed 235 organisms 
per 100 ml, where the second sample is taken from the same location and within 2 hours 
of receiving an initial sampling result for E. coli density that exceeds 235 organisms per 
100 ml, and shall close all natural swimming areas where the result of any single sample 
for E. coli density exceeds 576 organisms per 100 ml. When the E. coli level in the initial 
sample exceeds 235 organisms per 100 ml, a notice must be posted at the natural 
swimming area warning swimmers of the presence of elevated levels of bacteria (see 
appendix C). Entering into the Memorandum of Agreement is voluntary, however, such 
memorandums of agreement shall contain provisions that require the following: 
1. 
Daily completion of a Data Log Form that records all observable information 
relevant to potential E. coli impacts to the specific swimming area. 
2. 
Personnel on site, during all times the natural swimming area is open to the 
public, responsible for observing and recording such relevant information. 
3. 
E. coli sampling at the natural swimming area, in addition to the minimum five 
samples per month, during identified occurrences that are likely to increase the 
E. coli level above the 235 organisms per 100 ml. Such occurrences shall be 
defined in the MOA. 
4. 
Delivery of all samples to a Department approved laboratory within six hours of 
taking the sample, for initiation of analysis the same day as delivery. Results 
must be received the following day; 
5. 
Protocols for control samples; 
6. 
Such other provisions as the parties of the MOA determine to be necessary to 
predict, to prevent, and to control levels of E. coli in excess of 235 organisms per 
100 ml; 
7. 
The parties of the MOA may revise or eliminate terms and conditions required by 
this subsection to be included in any MOA, where the parties of the agreement 
determine that the required term or condition is not providing relevant or 
necessary information for the protection of public health. Either party to the MOA 
may cancel the MOA by providing written notification 30 days in advance. 
F. 
The first sample of the swimming season shall be taken at least 5 days prior to opening 
the area. 
Failure to meet any of these requirements shall constitute grounds for closure of the natural swimming 
area and must be reported to this department or its designated agent by telephone call or FAX, as soon 
as possible but no later than 24 hours after determination. Signs must be posted to inform the public of 
such closure at the accesses to the area. 
2) 
The natural swimming area may re-open when [see appendix B or C]: 
A. 
The sample result shows that the level of Escherichia coli is less than 235 per 100 ml 
sample.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
19 
B. 
Samples must be taken at the same location as the original sample(s). If more than one 
sample is taken on any day, the highest result must be used for compliance purposes. 
3) 
The samples shall be taken [see appendix D]: 
A. 
In the area of the greatest bather load or activity, 
B. 
During regular business hours, 
C. 
Where the water depth is approximately 3 feet, 
D. 
From within approximately 12 inches of the surface, 
E. 
By an individual trained in proper sampling techniques. 
All samples taken shall be examined in accordance with the 19th edition of Standard Methods for The 
Examination of Water and Wastewater (1995), Parts 9221 A, C, E; 9222 A, D, E; 9211B; 9212 B; 9213 D; 
9221 F; 9223 A, B; and 9020 or by other method accepted by the Colorado Dept. of Public and 
Environment. Records of all sampling results must be maintained at the facility for a period of three (3) 
years. All bacteriological sampling results taken in any month must be submitted to this department or its 
designated agent by the 15th of the following month. 
4) 
Each natural swimming area shall have an approved management plan at each facility, which 
must be submitted to this department or its designated agent by May 15, 1998. The sanitary 
issues contained in this plan shall be approved by the Colorado Department of Public Health and 
Environment or its designated agent. The plan shall be based on, but not limited to, the following 
criteria: 
A. 
Person(s) responsible for and procedures for notification of the state or local health dept. 
and the public through the news media, as appropriate, when the water quality is out of 
compliance with section 1 above, 
B. 
Number and location of additional bacteriological samples due to size of area, 
C. 
Public information on water quality and associated risks, proper hygiene, steps the 
swimmers can take to reduce their risk, and the steps swimmers should take to report 
any illness they believe that they had contracted from the swimming area, 
D. 
Minimum number and location of toilet facilities [see appendix E], 
E. 
Control of diaper wearing individuals and changing stations, 
F. 
Control of pets, 
G. 
Voluntary closure when water quality may exceed the standards, 
H. 
Maximum bather loads, 
I. 
Lifeguards and other personnel, 
J. 
Personnel qualifications and training, 
K. 
Control of inlet water or other practices to affect water quality, 
L. 
Use of sanitary surveys for closing portions of the area due to presence of bacteria,

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
20 
M. 
Maintenance of reports of health complaints, 
N. 
Maintenance of analytical costs. 
4.7 
CHEMICAL QUALITY: 
1. 
All public pools or semi-public pools shall be automatically and continuously disinfected by a 
chemical or process which imparts an easily measured residual which complies in all respects 
with the Standards of the National Sanitation Foundation (February 1, 1993) covering such 
chemicals or process. 
2. 
Chemicals used for algae control shall be approved by the Colorado Department of Health. 
3. 
Other disinfecting equipment or materials may be used if they have been adequately 
demonstrated to the Colorado Department of Health or its authorized agents to provide a 
satisfactory residual effect which is easily measured or where demonstration and analysis provide 
assurance that results are otherwise equally effective under conditions of use as the chlorine 
concentration required herein, and not be dangerous to public health, create objectionable 
physiological effects, or impart toxic properties to water. 
4. 
Any pool shall be immediately closed under the following conditions: 
A. 
Disinfection level falls below minimum requirement. 
B. 
pH falls below minimum requirement, or exceeds maximum requirement. 
5. 
Table 1 lists the chemical parameters required for any public pool or semi-public pool.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
21 
SECTION 4.7: TABLE 1 
PARAMETER 
REQUIRED PPM 
IDEAL PPM 
Min. 
Max. 
Min. 
Max. 
Free Chlorine (pool) (DPD method) 
0.25*** 
5.0 
1.0 
3.0 
Free Chlorine (spa, therapy pool) (DPD) 
0.25***" 
5.0 
3.0 
5.0 
Combined Chlorine 
0.00 
1.0 
0.0 
0.0 
 
 
 
 
 
Bromine (pool) (DPD) 
1.5 
5.0 
2.0 
3.0 
Bromine (Spa, therapy pool) (DPD) 
2.0 
10.0 
3.0 
5.0 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Alkalinity (CaCO3) 
70 
180 
**** 
**** 
Ph 
7.2 
8.0 
7.4 
7.6 
Calcium Hardness 
150 
600 
200 
400 
 
 
 
 
 
Temperature (Incl. spas, therapy pools) 
77 
104 
***** 
***** 
 
 
 
 
 
O.R.P. (in mv) (if applicable)* 
250 
900 
650 
850 
 
 
 
 
 
Hydrogen Peroxide (if applicable) 
20 
100 
30 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
Ion Generator (if applicable)** 
 
 
 
 
Copper 
0.25 
0.95 
0.3 
0.5 
Silver 
15 
50 
25 
40 
 
 
 
 
 
Ozone (supplemental oxidizer only) 
N/A 
0.1 
N/A 
N/A 
 
 
 
 
 
Saturation Index (Langlier Index) 
-0.5 
+05 
-0.2 
+0.2 
 
 
 
 
 
Cyanuric Acid (ppm) 
20 
100 
20 
40 
*O.R.P. at a pH of 7.5, and in accordance with Graph #1. 
**In conjunction with a 0.4 ppm chlorine residual. 
***0.25 ppm chlorine residual only when used with an approved supplemental oxidizer. 
****Differences may occur according to pool finish, disinfectant, etc. Consult your pool manufacturers recommendations for ideal 
level. 
*****Recommended general use swimming pool temperature range + 82-84 degrees F.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
22 
 
4.8 
TURBIDITY: 
1. 
The water shall have sufficient clarity at all times so that the grate openings on the maindrain are 
dearly visible from the deck. Failure to meet this requirement shall constitute grounds for 
immediate closing of the pool. 
2. 
No algae or foreign matter shall be present in the pool water. 
4.9 
SWIMMING POOL AND SPA/HOT TUB OPERATION 
The owner or operator of each public pool or semi-public pool shall have on staff or under contract for 
each facility a current Certified Pool Operator* (CPO) (*National Swimming Pool Foundation Certification), 
an Aquatic Facility Operator* (AFO) (*National Recreation and Parks Association Certification), or an 
NSPI Tech I (*National Spa and Pool Institute Certification Program) or other approved certification 
program. All public pools or semi-public pools shall maintain a record of information regarding operations 
of the pool. Included within this record shall be, but not limited to, disinfectant levels, pH, calcium 
hardness levels, total alkalinity, flow meter readings, temperatures, pool balance calculations, SCBA or 
canister-type respirator checks, gas canister expiration dates, and maintenance procedures. The 
following schedule sets forth the frequency at which specific parameters of pool operation shall be 
recorded in the pool record: 
At least one (1) of the daily pool chemistry readings must be taken manually (not from an electronic 
readout). It is preferred that this be the first reading of the day. 
*Swimming Pools (Includes therapeutic pools and wading pools)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
23 
3/Times/Day 
Daily 
Weekly 
Monthly 
Disinfectant Level 
Flowmeter Reading 
Cyanuric Acid 
SCBA or 
PH 
Temperature 
 
Canister Type Respirator check 
Date 
Saturation Index 
 
Respirator Canister expiration 
ORP 
Calcium Hardness 
 
 
 
Total Alkalinity 
 
 
 
Maintenance Procedures 
 
 
*Spa/Hot Tub 
 
2 Hour Intervals 
Daily 
Weekly 
Monthly 
Disinfectant Level 
Flowmeter Reading 
Cyanuric Acid 
SCBA or 
PH 
Saturation Index 
 
Canister type respirator check 
Temperature 
Calcium Hardness 
 
Respirator canister expiration 
 
Total Alkalinity 
 
 
 
Maintenance Procedures 
 
 
* 
To check the balance of the pool: pH, temperature, calcium hardness and total alkalinity 
must be checked simultaneously. 
The record of the pool operations shall be kept at the facility and shall be available for inspection by 
anyone upon request. 
The pumps, filters, disinfectant units, chemical feeders, heaters, and related appurtenances shall be kept 
in operation at all times that the swimming pool is in use and for each additional period as needed to keep 
the pool in compliance with these regulations. Recirculation equipment shall provide a minimum turn over 
of swimming pool water every six (6) hours, therapeutic pool water every four (4) hours, separate wading 
pool water every one (1) hour, and spa/hot tub water every thirty (30) minutes. All equipment shall be 
maintained in good working order. Floating scum, sputum or debris shall not be allowed to accumulate in 
the pool. 
4.10 
HEATING AND VENTILATION 
1. 
Bath houses, indoor dressing rooms, shower rooms, and toilet rooms shall be properly ventilated. 
Ventilation of indoor swimming pools shall be so designed that bathers will not be subjected to 
drafts. 
2. 
All heating units and electrical outlets shall be isolated or protected from contact by bathers to 
prevent injuries. 
4.11 
BATHER CONTROL: 
1. 
All bathers, before entering the swimming pool, shall be required to take a cleansing shower bath, 
using warm water and soap and rinsing off all soap before entering the pool. Soap shall be 
provided by the facility. 
2. 
Persons having any considerable area of exposed sub-epidermal tissue, cuts, or known or 
recognizable contagious diseases, shall not be permitted to use the pool. Therapy pools used 
exclusively for prescribed treatments are exempt from this sub-paragraph 2, and shall be closed 
to the public during treatment times. 
3. 
Spitting, or blowing the nose in the pool shall be strictly prohibited.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
24 
4. 
If towels, bathing suits, combs, brushes, or any other such articles are furnished by the pool 
management, they shall be clean at the time of issue to the patron and shall have been cleaned 
and sanitized in a manner acceptable to the health department. 
5. 
The bather load shall not be permitted to exceed the design limitation as determined in Section 
3.23. Such limitation shall be posted at facility. 
4.12 
WASTE DISPOSAL: 
The sewer system shall be adequate to serve the facility, including bathhouse, looker room and related 
accommodations. The sewer line serving the backwash for the filter shall be 1-½ times the size of the 
backwash line or provide a containment vessel capable of holding a minimum of 5 minutes volume of 
backwash water at the backwash design rate. 
There shall be no direct physical connection between the sewer system and any drain from the swimming 
pool or recirculation system. Any swimming pool, gutter drain, overflow from the recirculation system 
when discharged to the sewer system shall connect through a suitable air gap so as to preclude the 
possibility of backflow of sewage or waste into the swimming pool piping system. 
The sanitary sewer serving the swimming pool and auxiliary facilities shall discharge to the public sewer 
system wherever possible. Where no such sewer is available, the method of disposal shall be in 
accordance with the requirements of the Colorado Department of Health or local health department. 
4.13 
RIGHT OF ENTRY: 
All swimming areas shall be open to inspection and water sample collection at any time they are in use, 
and at any other reasonable time, by agents of the Department of Health. 
4.14 
DISEASE CONTROL: 
1. 
Any person with a communicable disease, that is transmittable by water shall not be permitted to 
use the pool facilities. 
2. 
Hospital therapy pools shall maintain adequate water disinfection to protect users from 
communicable diseases. 
3. 
Should feces be found in the pool at any time, the following procedure shall be followed: 
A. 
Pool shall be closed and all bathers removed. 
B. 
Solid matter shall be removed. 
C. 
Water chemistry shall be checked. 
(1) 
If disinfection levels are within required parameters, the pool shall remain closed 
for at least 60 minutes and then re-opened. 
(2) 
If disinfection levels are not within the required parameters, the pool shall be 
closed and the disinfection level restored. The pool may re-open 60 minutes after 
acceptable disinfectant levels have been attained. 
D. 
If feces are in the form of diarrhea, the pool shall be closed, superchlorinated (or 
equivalent), remain closed for 24 hours, and then re-opened if disinfection levels are 
within required parameters.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
25 
4.15 
FACILITIES TO BE KEPT CLEAN AND IN GOOD REPAIR: 
All shower rooms, dressing rooms, equipment rooms and appurtenant facilities shall be kept clean at all 
times. Daily hosing down of all facilities is required. Disinfection of public areas is required daily or more 
frequently as needed. 
Animals shall not be permitted in pool or pool area, except patrol dogs accompanying security or police 
officers, or guide dogs and service dogs accompanying blind, visually handicapped, deaf, partially deaf 
and otherwise physically disabled persons. 
All parts of the pool and related pool facilities and equipment shall be maintained in good repair. Floors 
shall be kept free from cracks and other defects. Walls, ceilings, partitions, doors, lockers and similar 
surfaces and equipment shall be finished in a manner acceptable to the health department and refinished 
as often as necessary to be kept in good repair. 
Injunctive Relief: (25-5-807 CRS) 
The operation of a swimming area in violation of any provision of these regulations may be restrained by 
the director of the Colorado Department of Health, by any city, county, city and county, or district health 
officer, or by any of their authorized agents in an action brought in court of competent jurisdiction 
pursuant to the Colorado rules of civil procedures. 
ARTICLE V 
PUBLIC BATH 
1. 
The water supplied for any public bath facility shall be maintained free of disease causing 
organisms and shall be provided under one of the following conditions: 
A. 
The water shall be recirculated in accordance with the specifications in Section 3.10, and 
shall meet the disinfection requirements of Section 4.7, or 
B. 
The water shall be exchanged by flow-through of unused water so as to provide a 
complete change of water in one (1) hour or less if the basin capacity is less than one 
thousand (1000) gallons; or in two (2) hours or less if the basin has a capacity greater 
than one thousand (1000) gallons, or 
C. 
The use of a combination of (A) and (B) above, in any manner such that the water shall 
meet the bacteriological requirements of Section 4.6, based on not less than five (5) 
samples equally spaced over each thirty (30) day period during operation, or 
D. 
The water shall be used exclusively by one person, after which the basin shall be 
drained. The basin shall be cleaned and sanitized between uses. The water shall contain 
at least a 0.25 part per million chlorine residual (or other comparable residual) at all 
times. 
2. 
The interior surfaces of the basin shall be clean and kept in good repair. 
3. 
Toilet facilities shall comply with Section 3.21 of these regulations. They shall be of cleanable, 
impervious construction; kept in good repair; and kept clean. 
4. 
Shower facilities shall comply with Section 3.22 of these regulations, unless individual facilities 
are provided for each bath unit. They shall be of cleanable, impervious construction; kept in good 
repair; and kept clean. Each person shall shower in compliance with Section 4.11(1) of these 
regulations prior to entering the bath water, unless the bath is an individual bath.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
26 
5. 
Dressing rooms, when provided, shall comply with Section 3.20 of these regulations. They shall 
be of cleanable, impervious construction; kept in good repair; and kept dean. Resting rooms or 
reclining facilities shall be of cleanable, impervious construction; kept in good repair; and kept 
clean. 
6. 
Potable drinking water shall be supplied to the premises and shall meet the Colorado Primary 
Drinking Water Regulations. 5 C.C.R. 1003-1. 
7. 
The sewer system serving the facility shall comply with Section 4.12 of these regulations. 
8. 
All appurtenances to the bath facility shall be of cleanable construction; kept in good repair; and 
kept clean

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
27 
Appendix B: 
Biological Standard for Natural Swimming Areas (Escherichia Coliform as Initial 
Test)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
28 
Appendix C: 
Biological Standard for Natural Swimming Areas who have entered into a 
Memorandum of Agreement

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
29 
Appendix D: 
SAMPLING PROTOCOL FOR NATURAL BATHING BEACHES 
I. 
PERSONAL SAFETY AND CLEANLINESS 
Good personal safety and cleanliness goes a long way for promoting aseptic sampling. The following 
measures help to prevent the sampler from becoming part of the sample. 
1. 
Wash hands with a bactericidal soap and water BEFORE and AFTER sampling. 
2. 
Keep all food and drink away from sampling sites, sampling equipment, and sample containers. 
II. 
SAMPLING METHOD 
1. 
Determine where the samples are to be collected: 
- 
Collect one sample for approximately every 50 meters of beach. Take the first sample 
near the middle of the beach and then proceed 50 meters in each direction town the 
beach to collect each subsequent sample. 
- 
Collect sample(s) near the beach where swimmers could be exposed to contaminated 
water entering the lake/reservoir (e.g., storm water drains, natural contours which drain 
rest room or septic system areas, etc.). 
2. 
Collect samples during greatest bather load (i.e., peak usage time). Allow enough time to collect 
the sample and have it properly shipped or delivered to a lab for analysis. Please be aware that 
the sample MUST be received by a lab and the analysis begun within 30 hours of collection. 
3. 
Obtain one PRE-STERILIZED sample container for each sample site. Do Not open the container 
until you are ready to collect the sample. The sample may either be hand collected or a sampling 
device may be used. 
4. 
Label each container with a water proof marker with the following information: date and clock time 
of collection, sample location (could be a predetermined ID number specific for each sampling 
site), and sample number (typically provided by the lab). Complete a Sample Collection Form For 
Multiple Sampling Sites (again, provided by the lab). 
5. 
Follow the Personal Safety and Cleanliness instructions above. If a sampling device is used, wipe 
the entire surface of the device with a fresh alcohol swab - allow device to dry before sampling. 
6. 
At each sampling site, wade out into the water far enough so the sample can be collected from 
where the water is approximately 3 feet deep. Disturb the bottom sediment as little as possible. 
7. 
Open sample container. Be careful not to touch the inside of the container (or lid if present). DO 
NOT RINSE the container. 
8. 
Collect the sample facing into the wind or current. Make every effort to collect as little disturbed 
sediment as possible (high levels of turbidity will interfere with the test method). 
9a. 
Hand Sampling - Grasp sample container near the base, invert, and plunge into the water to a 
depth of approximately 12 inches. Slightly tilt the container into the wind or current and push 
forward horizontally away from your hand and body to fill. Avoid contact with the bank or bed. 
Remove container upright and vertically from the water. 
9b. 
Sampling Device - Follow the directions for collection with a sampling device specific for the 
device.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
30 
10. 
The sample container should be nearly full when it is removed from the water. Pour out some of 
the sample so the water level is just ABOVE the 100 mL line on the container (about ½ inch of 
head space in the container is necessary mixing the sample in the lab). 
11. 
Without touching the inside of the container or lid, secure the container shut Check the container 
for leakage. 
12. 
When hand sampling, change gloves before collecting another sample. When using a sampling 
device, wipe the entire surface with a new alcohol swab before collecting another sample. 
13. 
Pack the sample(s) for shipment or delivery to the lab. Ideally, the sample(s) should be shipped 
with ice (or a frozen gel ice pack) to keep the sample(s) cool during shipment. Be sure to include 
the sample collection form. 
Appendix E: 
Guidelines for Restroom Facilities 
Toilet facilities for the use of swimmers shall be provided for both males and females and shall be 
accessible to disabled persons. 
The required number of toilets can be determined in the following methods: 
a) 
use the toilet section of Article 3 of these regulations for permanent facilities, or 
b) 
use the following table, or 
 
Average time at event 
Peak 
Crowd 
(Hours) 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
250 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
3 
3 
3 
3 
3 
500 
2 
3 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
1000 
4 
5 
6 
7 
7 
8 
8 
8 
8 
8 
2000 
6 
10 
12 
13 
14 
14 
14 
15 
15 
15 
3000 
9 
14 
17 
19 
20 
21 
21 
21 
22 
22 
4000 
12 
19 
23 
28 
28 
28 
30 
30 
30 
30 
5000 
15 
23 
28 
32 
34 
36 
36 
36 
36 
36 
6000 
17 
28 
34 
38 
40 
42 
42 
42 
44 
44 
7000 
20 
32 
40 
44 
46 
48 
50 
50 
50 
50 
8000 
23 
38 
46 
50 
54 
57 
57 
57 
57 
57 
10000 
30 
46 
57 
63 
66 
69 
69 
72 
72 
72 
c) 
use a combination of (a) and (b) above. 
There are many instances when portable sanitation units are necessary to accommodate the need for 
restroom facilities. Under normal conditions, the average individual uses sanitary facilities once every four 
hours. The consumption of food, beverages, and alcohol will increase this usage by 30-40%. The above 
table assumes that the average time between uses is 2 hours.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
5 CCR 1003-5 
Water Quality Control Division 
 
31 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Rules 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 4.7.4 eff. 12/15/2020.
