---
id: "6_CCR_1007-1"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "6 CCR 1007-1"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=5563&fileName=6%20CCR%201007-1%20Part%2024&type=pdf"
---

#### 6_CCR_1007-1. 6 CCR 1007-1

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
RADIATION CONTROL - PARTICLE ACCELERATORS AND THERAPEUTIC RADIATION MACHINES 
IN THE HEALING ARTS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
PART 24: 
PARTICLE ACCELERATORS AND THERAPEUTIC RADIATION MACHINES IN THE 
HEALING ARTS 
24.1 
Purpose and Scope. 
24.1.1 Authority. 
24.1.1.1 
Rules and regulations set forth herein are adopted pursuant to the provisions of 
sections 25-1-108, 25-1.5-101(1)(l), and 25-11-104, CRS. 
24.1.2 Basis and Purpose. 
24.1.2.1 
A statement of basis and purpose accompanies this part and changes to this 
part. A copy may be obtained from the Department. 
24.1.3 Scope. 
24.1.3.1 
This Part 24 establishes requirements for use of particle accelerators and 
therapeutic radiation machines in the healing arts. 
24.1.4 Applicability. 
24.1.4.1 
The provisions of Part 24 are in addition to, and not in substitution for, other 
applicable provisions in Parts 1, 2, 4, 10 or other parts of these regulations. 
24.1.4.2 
The requirements and provisions of this part apply to each registrant or applicant 
for registration subject to this part unless specifically exempted, and also apply as 
appropriate to an equivalent licensee or applicant for a license. 
24.1.5 Published Material Incorporated by Reference. 
24.1.5.1 
Published material incorporated in Part 24 by reference is available in accord 
with Part 1, Section 1.4. 
24.2 
Definitions. 
As used in Part 24, these terms have the definitions set forth below. 
"AAPM Report 46" means "Comprehensive QA for Radiation Oncology”, AAPM Report No. 46 by Task 
Group 40 of the Radiation Therapy Committee of the American Association of Physicists in Medicine 
(Medical Physics, Vol. 21, Issue 4, April 1994, pp. 581-618). 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
2 
"AAPM Report 47" means "AAPM Code of Practice for Radiotherapy Accelerators", AAPM Report No. 47 
by Task Group 45 of the Radiation Therapy Committee of the American Association of Physicists in 
Medicine (Medical Physics, Vol. 21, Issue 7, July 1994, pp. 1093-1121). 
"AAPM Report 82" means "Guidance Document on Delivery, Treatment Planning, and Clinical 
Implementation of IMRT”, AAPM Report No. 82 by the IMRT Subcommittee of the Radiation Therapy 
Committee of the American Association of Physicists in Medicine (Medical Physics, Vol. 30, Issue 8, 
August 2003, pp. 2089-2115). 
"AAPM Report 83" means "Quality Assurance for Computed-Tomography Simulators and the Computed 
Tomography-Simulation Process”, AAPM Report No. 83 by Task Group 66 of the Radiation Therapy 
Committee of the American Association of Physicists in Medicine (Medical Physics, Vol. 30, Issue 10, 
October 2003, pp. 2762-2792). 
"AAPM Task Group 101 Report" means "Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy: The report of AAPM Task 
Group 101", AAPM Report by Task Group 101 of the Treatment Delivery Subcommittee, of the American 
Association of Physicists in Medicine (Medical Physics, Vol. 37, Issue 8, August 2010, pp. 4078-4101). 
"AAPM Task Group 142 Report" means "Quality Assurance of Medical Accelerators", AAPM Report by 
Task Group 142 of the Quality Assurance and Outcome Improvement Subcommittee of the American 
Association of Physicists in Medicine (Medical Physics, Vol. 36, Issue 9, September 2009, pp. 4197-
4212), International Standard Book Number 9781888340884. 
"AAPM Task Group 179 Report" means "Quality Assurance for Image-guided Radiation Therapy Utilizing 
CT-based Technologies", a report of the AAPM Task Group 179, (Medical Physics, Vol. 39, Issue 4, April 
2012, pp. 1946-1963), International Standard Book Number 9781936366156. 
"ADCL" means a dosimetry calibration laboratory accredited by the American Association of Physicists in 
Medicine (AAPM). 
"Added filtration" means addition of a filter to the inherent filtration. 
"Authorized user" means an individual who meets the requirements of Part 2, Appendix 2K. 
"Barrier". See "protective barrier". 
"Beam axis" means, for purposes of Part 24, the axis of rotation of the beam-limiting device. 
"Beam limiting device" means a field-defining collimator, integral to the therapeutic radiation machine, 
which provides a means to restrict the dimensions of the useful beam. 
"Beam monitoring system" means a system designed and installed in the radiation head to detect and 
measure the radiation present in the useful beam. 
"Beam scattering foil" means a thin piece of material (usually metallic) placed in the beam to spread out a 
beam of electrons to provide a more uniform electron distribution in the useful beam. 
"Bent-beam linear accelerator" means a linear accelerator geometry in which the accelerated electron 
beam must change direction by passing through a bending magnet. 
"Central axis" means "beam axis". 
"Changeable filter" means any filter, exclusive of inherent filtration, that can be removed from the useful 
beam through any electronic, mechanical, or physical process.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
3 
"Collimator" means, for purposes of Part 24, a physical device that constrains the ionizing radiation. 
"Contact therapy system" means a therapeutic radiation machine in which an external source of radiation 
is a short target to skin distance (TSD), usually less than five centimeters, from the skin. Such systems 
are not designed for intracavitary, intraluminal or interstitial use. 
"Detector". See "radiation detector". 
"Direct supervision". See Part 1 definition. 
"Dose monitor unit" (DMU) means a unit response from the beam monitoring system from which the 
absorbed dose can be calculated. 
"Electronic brachytherapy device" means the components of an electronic brachytherapy system that 
produce and deliver therapeutic radiation, including the x-ray tube, control mechanism, cooling system, 
and the power source. 
"Electronic brachytherapy source" means the x-ray tube component used in an electronic brachytherapy 
device. 
"Electronic brachytherapy system" means a therapeutic radiation machine in which an x-ray source is 
used to irradiate tissue by intracavitary, intraluminal, interstitial, or similar application with the source in 
contact with, very close to, or at a distance usually less than five centimeters from the target volume 
"External beam radiation therapy system" means a therapeutic radiation machine in which the source of 
radiation is a certain distance, usually more than five centimeters, from the body. 
"Field-flattening filter" means a filter used to homogenize the absorbed dose rate over the radiation field. 
"Filter" means material placed in the useful beam to change beam quality in therapeutic radiation 
machines subject to 24.7. 
"Gantry" means that part of a radiation therapy system supporting and allowing movements of the 
radiation head about a center of rotation. 
"General supervision". See Part 1 definition. 
"Half-value layer" (HVL) means the thickness of a specified material needed to reduce a radiation beam 
to one-half of its original intensity. 
"Image Guided Radiation Therapy" (IGRT) is the process which uses ionizing radiation for frequent two or 
three-dimensional imaging during a course of radiation treatment, to direct radiation therapy utilizing the 
imaging coordinates of the actual radiation treatment plan. 
"Inherent filtration" means the filtration of the useful beam provided by the permanently installed 
components of the housing assembly. 
"Intensity Modulated Radiation Therapy" (IMRT) means radiation therapy using highly modulated spatially 
non-uniform radiation beam intensities that have been determined by computer-based optimization 
techniques. 
"Interlock" means a device arranged or connected such that the occurrence of an event or condition is 
required before a second event or condition can occur or continue to occur.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
4 
"Interruption of irradiation" means the stopping of irradiation with the possibility of continuing irradiation 
without resetting of operating conditions at the control panel. 
"Irradiation" means the exposure of a living being or matter to ionizing radiation. 
"Isocenter" means the center of the sphere through which the useful beam axis passes while the gantry 
and collimator move through their full range of motion. 
"Lead equivalent" means the thickness of a material that provides the same attenuation, under specified 
conditions, as lead. 
"Leakage radiation" means the portion of ionizing radiation originating from the radiation therapy system 
that is not part of the useful beam. See "useful beam". 
"Light field" means the area illuminated by light, simulating the radiation field. 
"Misadministration". See "reportable medical event". 
"Mobile Electronic Brachytherapy Service" means transportation of an electronic brachytherapy device to 
provide electronic brachytherapy at an address that is not the address of record. 
"Monitor unit" (MU). See "dose monitor unit". 
"Moving beam radiation therapy" means radiation therapy with any planned displacement of radiation field 
or patient relative to each other, while the beam is activated or with any planned change of absorbed 
dose distribution. It includes, but is not limited to, arc, skip, conformal, and rotational therapy. 
"Nominal treatment distance" means: 
(1) 
For electron irradiation, the distance from the scattering foil, virtual source, or exit window 
of the electron beam to the entrance surface of the irradiated object along the central axis 
of the useful beam. 
(2) 
For x-ray irradiation, the distance from the virtual source or target-to-isocenter distance 
along the central axis of the useful beam. For non-isocentric equipment, this distance 
shall be that specified by the manufacturer. 
"Operator" means a person who, by virtue of training and experience is authorized by the registrant or 
authorized user, to operate a therapeutic radiation machine: 
(1) 
for human use, and who meets the requirements of 24.3.5.1; or 
(2) 
for veterinary use, and who meets the requirements of 24.3.5.2. 
"Patient", for purposes of Part 24, means a human individual or animal to whom machine-produced 
radiation is delivered for medical therapy. 
"Peak tube potential" means the maximum value of the potential difference across the x-ray tube during 
an exposure. 
"Periodic quality assurance check" means a procedure performed periodically to ensure that a previous 
parameter, condition, or function continues to be valid. 
"Personal supervision". See Part 1 definition.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
5 
"Prescribed dose" means the total dose and dose per fraction intended to a particular point or volume as 
documented in the written directive. 
"Primary dose monitoring system" means a system that will monitor the useful beam during irradiation 
and which will terminate irradiation when a pre-selected number of dose monitor units have been 
delivered. 
"Primary protective barrier" (see "protective barrier"). 
"Protective barrier" means a barrier of radiation-absorbing material(s) used to reduce radiation exposure. 
The types of protective barriers include: 
(1) 
"Primary protective barrier", which means the material, excluding filters, placed in the 
useful beam; 
(2) 
"Secondary protective barrier", which means the material that attenuates stray radiation. 
"Registered medical physicist" (RMP) for radiation therapy means an individual who meets the applicable 
requirements of Part 2, Appendix 2B and has current Department approval to perform medical physics 
activities as a registered qualified expert for radiation therapy, including to design shielding, measure 
ionizing radiation, and oversee radiation protection and quality assurance at radiation therapy and other 
medical facilities. 
"Radiation detector" means a device that in the presence of radiation provides, by either direct or indirect 
means, a signal or other indication suitable for use in measuring one or more quantities of incident 
radiation. 
"Radiation field". See "useful beam". 
"Radiation head" means the structure from which the useful beam emerges. 
"Radiation therapist" means an individual who meets the requirements of Part 2, Appendix 2L. 
"Radiation therapy" means the therapeutic application of ionizing radiation to humans or animals for 
medical, research, or veterinary purposes. 
"Radiation therapy physician" means a physician trained to use therapeutic radiation machines on 
humans. 
"Radiation therapy veterinarian" means a veterinarian trained to use therapeutic radiation machines on 
animals. 
"Radiotherapy". See "radiation therapy". 
"Redundant beam monitoring system" means a combination of two dose-monitoring systems in which 
each system is designed to terminate irradiation in accordance with a pre-selected number of dose 
monitor units. 
"Reportable medical event" means an event that meets the criteria in 24.6. For purposes of Part 24, 
"misadministration" is an equivalent term. 
"Scattered primary radiation" means radiation that has been deviated in direction only by materials 
irradiated by the useful beam.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
6 
"Scattered radiation" means ionizing radiation emitted by interaction of ionizing radiation with matter, the 
interaction being accompanied by a change in direction of the radiation. 
"Secondary dose monitoring system" means a system which will terminate irradiation in the event of 
failure of the primary dose monitoring system. 
"Secondary protective barrier". See "protective barrier". 
"Shadow tray" means a device attached to the radiation head to support auxiliary beam blocking material. 
"Shutter" means a device attached to the tube housing assembly which can totally intercept the useful 
beam and which has a lead equivalency not less than that of the tube housing assembly. 
"Simulator" (radiation therapy simulation system) means: 
(1) 
Any radiographic/fluoroscopic x-ray system intended for localizing the volume to be 
exposed during radiation therapy and establishing and reproducing the position and size 
of the therapeutic irradiation field; or 
(2) 
A computed tomography system, which is used in conjunction with relevant software that 
recreates the treatment machine, and which allows import, manipulation, display and 
storage of images from computed tomography and/or other imaging modalities. 
"Source-skin distance" (SSD). See "target-skin distance". 
"Stationary beam radiation therapy" means radiation therapy without displacement of one or more 
mechanical axes relative to the patient during irradiation. 
"Stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT)" means a specialized form of radiation therapy of the body 
(other than intracranial or spinal lesions) which uses a known three dimensional reference system to 
localize and deliver high doses of radiation to a target lesion with high precision in large fraction sizes 
over a short course (typically 5 or fewer fractions) of treatment. 
"Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS)" means a specialized form of radiation therapy of the brain and spine, 
and which uses a known three dimensional reference system to localize and deliver high doses of 
radiation to a target lesion with high precision in large fraction sizes over a short course of treatment. 
"Stray radiation" means the sum of leakage radiation and scattered radiation. 
"Target" means that part of an x-ray tube or accelerator onto which a beam of accelerated particles is 
directed to produce ionizing radiation or other particles. 
"Target-skin distance" (TSD) means the distance measured along the beam axis from the center of the 
front surface of the x-ray target, or electron virtual source, or the nominal position of the electron source 
to the surface of the irradiated object or patient. 
"Tenth-value layer" (TVL) means the thickness of a specified material which attenuates X-radiation or 
gamma radiation to an extent such that the air kerma rate, exposure rate, or absorbed dose rate is 
reduced to one-tenth of the value measured at the same point without the material. 
"Termination of irradiation" means the stopping of irradiation in a manner that will not permit continuance 
of irradiation without the resetting the operating condition(s) at the control panel. 
"Therapeutic radiation machine" means x-ray or electron-producing equipment designed and used for 
radiation therapy, including external beam and electronic brachytherapy systems.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
7 
"Tube" means an x-ray tube, unless otherwise specified. 
"Tube housing assembly" means the tube housing with tube installed, including high-voltage and/or 
filament transformers and other appropriate elements when such are contained within the tube housing. 
"Useful beam" means the portion of ionizing radiation originating from the radiation head of the therapy 
system intended for therapeutic purposes. See "leakage radiation". 
"Virtual source" means a point from which radiation appears to originate. 
"Wedge filter" means a filter that effects continuous change in transmission over all or a part of the useful 
beam. 
"Written directive" means an order in writing for the administration of radiation to a specific human patient 
or human research subject, in accord with the requirements of 24.6. 
"X-ray tube" means any electron tube that is designed to be used primarily for the production of x-rays. 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 
24.3 
General Administrative Requirements for Facilities Using Therapeutic Radiation Machines. 
24.3.1 Administrative Controls. 
24.3.1.1 
Each therapeutic radiation machine shall be registered with the Department. 
24.3.1.2 
The registrant shall be responsible for directing operation of the therapeutic 
radiation machine, including designation of each authorized user and/or machine 
operator. 
24.3.1.3 
The registrant or the registrant's agent shall ensure that all applicable 
requirements of Part 24 are met in the operation of the therapeutic radiation machine. 
24.3.1.4 
A therapeutic radiation machine that does not meet the requirements of Sections 
24.7, 24.8 or 24.13, as applicable, shall not be used to treat a patient without written 
authorization from the Registered Medical Physicist and Authorized User. 
24.3.1.5 
For a therapeutic radiation machine used only for veterinary applications, the 
registrant may request exemption from a requirement of Part 24 that is not applicable to 
the practices of veterinary medicine. 
24.3.2 Supervision of Use. 
24.3.2.1 
Human use of a therapeutic radiation machine shall be by, or under the general 
supervision of, an authorized user radiation therapy physician who has a current active 
State of Colorado license to practice the healing arts. 
24.3.2.2 
The use of a therapeutic radiation machine for veterinary applications shall be by, 
or under the general supervision of, a radiation therapy veterinarian who has a current 
active State of Colorado license to practice veterinary medicine.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
8 
24.3.3 Training for an Authorized User of a Therapeutic Radiation Machine. 
24.3.3.1 
The registrant for a therapeutic radiation machine subject to 24.7, 24.8, 24.13 or 
24.14 shall require each authorized user (radiation therapy physician) to meet the 
requirements of Part 2, Appendix 2K. 
24.3.4 Training for a Radiation Therapy Registered Medical Physicist. 
24.3.4.1 
The registrant for a therapeutic radiation machine subject to 24.7, 24.8, 24.13, or 
24.14 shall require each radiation therapy Registered Medical Physicist to be registered 
with the Department on the basis of training and experience in the clinical applications of 
radiation physics to radiation therapy. 
24.3.5 Qualifications of a Therapeutic Radiation Machine Operator. 
24.3.5.1 
Each individual who will be operating a therapeutic radiation machine for human 
use shall be: 
(1) 
An authorized user who meets the requirements of Part 2, Appendix 2K; or 
(2) 
An individual, designated by a facility authorized user, who meets the 
requirements of Part 2, Appendix 2L, "Radiation Therapist Adequate Radiation 
Safety Training and Experience". 
24.3.5.2 
Each individual who will be operating a therapeutic radiation machine for 
veterinary use shall meet qualification criteria specified by a radiation therapy veterinarian 
supervising as provided in 24.3.2.2. 
24.3.5.3 
The names and training of all personnel currently operating a therapeutic 
radiation machine shall be kept on file at the facility. 
24.3.5.4 
The name and training of each former operator shall be retained for a period of at 
least two (2) years beyond the last date the individual was authorized to operate a 
therapeutic radiation machine at that facility. 
24.3.6 Written safety procedures and rules shall be developed by a Registered Medical Physicist. 
24.3.6.1 
These safety procedures and rules and shall be available in the control area of a 
therapeutic radiation machine, including any restrictions required for the safe operation of 
the particular therapeutic radiation machine. 
24.3.6.2 
The operator shall be able to demonstrate familiarity with these safety 
procedures and rules. 
24.3.7 Operating procedures required by 24.7.18 and 24.8.18 shall specify how the Registered Medical 
Physicist is to be contacted for problems or emergencies, as well as the specific actions, if any, to 
be taken until the Registered Medical Physicist can be contacted. 
24.3.8 No individual shall be exposed to the useful beam except for medical therapy purposes pursuant 
to a written directive by an authorized user. 
24.3.8.1 
Deliberate exposure of an individual for training, demonstration or other non-
healing-arts purposes is strictly prohibited.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
9 
24.3.9 Each individual associated with the operation of a therapeutic radiation machine shall be 
instructed in and shall comply with the provisions of the registrant’s quality management program. 
24.3.10 Record Maintenance and Retention. 
24.3.10.1 
The registrant shall maintain records, for inspection by the Department, in a 
separate file or location for each therapeutic radiation machine, including: 
(1) 
Reports of acceptance testing; 
(2) 
Records of all surveys, calibrations, and periodic quality assurance checks of the 
therapeutic radiation machine required by Part 24, as well as the name(s) of the 
person(s) who performed such activities; 
(3) 
Records of maintenance and/or modifications performed on the therapeutic 
radiation machine, as well as the name(s) of the person(s) who performed such 
services; and 
(4) 
Each authorization, in accordance with a written procedure approved by the 
Registered Medical Physicist, for the return to use of a therapeutic radiation 
machine after service, repair, or upgrade. 
24.3.10.2 
All records required by Part 24 shall be retained for a period of at least three (3) 
years from the date of completion in accordance with Section 2.6.5 of Part 2. 
24.4 
General Technical Requirements for Facilities Using Therapeutic Radiation Machines. 
24.4.1 Protection Surveys. 
24.4.1.1 
The registrant shall ensure that a radiation protection survey of each facility, new 
or existing, has been performed with an operable radiation measurement survey 
instrument calibrated in accordance with 24.12. 
(1) 
The radiation protection survey shall be performed by, or under the personal 
supervision of, a Registered Medical Physicist; and 
(2) 
The radiation protection survey shall verify, with the therapeutic radiation 
machine in a "BEAM-ON" condition and the machine parameters set to produce 
the maximum scattering and leakage conditions, that: 
(a) 
Radiation levels in restricted areas are not likely to cause personnel 
exposures in excess of the limits specified in 4.6.1; and 
(b) 
Radiation levels in unrestricted areas do not exceed the limits specified 
in 4.14.1. 
24.4.1.2 
In addition to the requirements of 24.4.1.1, a radiation protection survey shall 
also be performed: 
(1) 
Prior to the first medical use of each therapeutic radiation machine; 
(2) 
After making any change in the treatment room shielding; 
(3) 
After making any change in the location of the therapeutic radiation machine 
within the treatment room;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
10 
(4) 
After relocating the therapeutic radiation machine; or 
(5) 
Before using the therapeutic radiation machine in a manner that could result in 
increased radiation levels, relative to the levels measured and documented in the 
last survey, in areas outside the radiation therapy treatment room. 
24.4.1.3 
The survey record shall indicate all instances where the radiation levels exceed 
the requirements of Sections 4.6.1 or 4.14.1, as applicable. The survey record shall 
include: 
(1) 
The date of the measurement(s); 
(2) 
The reason the survey is required; 
(3) 
The name of the manufacturer of the therapeutic radiation machine; 
(4) 
The model number and serial number of the therapeutic radiation machine; 
(5) 
The instrument(s), with calibration details, used to measure radiation levels; 
(6) 
A map of the areas surrounding the treatment room that were surveyed; 
(7) 
The measured dose rate at several points in each area expressed in microsievert 
(or millirem) per hour; 
(8) 
The calculated maximum radiation dose for each restricted and unrestricted area 
to demonstrate compliance with Sections 4.14.1.1., and 4.14.1.2. of Part 4; and 
(9) 
The signature of the individual performing or exercising personal supervision of 
the survey. 
24.4.1.4 
If the result of a survey required by 24.4.1.1 or 24.4.1.2 indicates any radiation 
level in excess of the respective limit specified in 24.4.1.1, the registrant shall lock the 
control in the "OFF" position and shall not use the unit for treatment of patients. 
(1) 
With prior approval of the Department, the therapeutic radiation machine may be 
used as necessary to repair, replace, or test the therapeutic radiation machine, 
the therapeutic radiation machine shielding, or the treatment room shielding. 
24.4.2 Modification of Radiation Therapy Unit or Room Before Beginning a Treatment Program. 
24.4.2.1 
If the survey required by 24.4.1 indicates that an individual in an unrestricted 
area may be exposed to levels of radiation greater than those permitted by 4.14.1, before 
beginning the treatment program the registrant shall: 
(1) 
Either equip the unit with beam direction interlocks or add additional radiation 
shielding to ensure compliance with 4.14.1; 
(2) 
Perform the survey required by 24.4.1 again; and 
(3) 
Include in the records required by 24.4.4 the results of the initial survey, a 
description of the modification made to comply with 24.4.2.1, and the results of 
the second survey; or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
11 
(4) 
Request and receive an authorization under 4.14.3 allowing radiation levels in 
unrestricted areas greater than those permitted by 4.14.1. 
24.4.3 Dosimetry Equipment. 
24.4.3.1 
The registrant shall have a calibrated dosimetry system available for use. 
(1) 
The system shall have been calibrated by the National Institute for Standards 
and Technology (NIST) or by an American Association of Physicists in Medicine 
(AAPM) Accredited Dosimetry Calibration Laboratory (ADCL); 
(2) 
The calibration shall have been performed within the previous 24 months and 
after any servicing that may have affected system calibration; and 
(3) 
The dosimetry system shall have been calibrated at an energy range appropriate 
for the radiation being measured. 
24.4.3.2 
The registrant shall have available for use a dosimetry system for quality 
assurance check measurements. 
(1) 
To meet this requirement, the system may be compared with a system that has 
been calibrated in accordance with 24.4.3.1. 
(2) 
This comparison shall have been performed within the previous twelve (12) 
months and after each servicing that may have affected system calibration. 
(3) 
The quality assurance check system may be the same system used to meet the 
requirement in 24.4.3.1. 
24.4.3.3 
The registrant shall maintain a record of each dosimetry system calibration or 
(inter)comparison for the duration of the license and/or registration, including for each 
calibration or (inter)comparison: 
(1) 
The date; 
(2) 
The model numbers and serial numbers of the instruments that were calibrated 
or (inter)compared as required by 24.4.3.1 and 24.4.3.2; 
(3) 
The correction factors that were determined; 
(4) 
The names of the individuals who performed the calibration or (inter)comparison; 
and 
(5) 
Evidence that: 
(a) 
Calibration was performed by the Accredited Dosimetry Calibration 
Laboratory (ADCL); or 
(b) 
The intercomparison was performed by, or under the personal 
supervision of, a Registered Medical Physicist.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
12 
24.4.4 Records of Radiation Therapy Surveys and Measurements. 
24.4.4.1 
The registrant for any therapeutic radiation machine subject to 24.7 or 24.8 shall 
maintain a copy of the records required in 24.4.1 and 24.4.2 for Department inspection in 
accordance with 2.6.5.4. 
24.4.5 Shielding and Safety Design Requirements. 
24.4.5.1 
Each therapeutic radiation machine subject to 24.7 or 24.8 shall be provided with 
such primary and/or secondary barriers as are necessary to ensure compliance with 4.6 
and 4.14. 
24.4.5.2 
Facility design information for all new installations of a therapeutic radiation 
machine or installations of a therapeutic radiation machine of higher energy into a room 
not previously approved for that energy shall meet the minimum requirements of 
Appendix 24A and shall be submitted to a Department-approved qualified expert for 
radiation therapy for approval prior to actual installation of the therapeutic radiation 
machine. 
24.5 
Registered Medical Physicist Support. 
24.5.1 In a facility having a therapeutic radiation machine, the Registered Medical Physicist shall 
perform the following: 
24.5.1.1 
Full calibration(s) required by 24.7.16 and 24.8.19; 
24.5.1.2 
Protection surveys required by 24.4.1; 
24.5.1.3 
Supervision and review of dosimetry; 
24.5.1.4 
Beam data acquisition and transfer for computerized dosimetry, and supervision 
of its use; 
24.5.1.5 
Surveys of residual radioactivity required by 24.8.17; 
24.5.1.6 
General supervision of quality assurance, including establishing written 
procedures and reviewing quality assurance checks as required by 24.7.17 and 24.8.20. 
24.5.1.7 
Consultation with the authorized user in treatment planning, as needed; and 
24.5.1.8 
Calculations/assessments regarding a reportable medical event. 
24.5.2 The Registered Medical Physicist shall be available for problems or emergencies consistent with 
the procedure specified pursuant to 24.3.7. 
24.6 
Quality Management Program. 
24.6.1 Each registrant or applicant subject to 24.7, 24.8, 24.13, or 24.14 shall develop, implement, and 
maintain a quality management program to ensure that radiation will be administered as directed 
by the authorized user.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
13 
24.6.2 The quality management program shall include provisions for written directives and procedures 
for administration of radiation. 
24.6.2.1 
A written directive: 
(1) 
Shall be dated and signed by a radiation therapy authorized user prior to the 
administration of radiation; 
(2) 
Shall contain the human patient or human research subject’s name, the type and 
energy of the beam, the total dose, dose per fraction, treatment site, and number 
of fractions; 
(3) 
May be revised at the discretion of the authorized user, provided that the revision 
is written, dated and signed by the authorized user prior to administration of the 
next fraction; 
(4) 
May be subject to oral revision, if because of the patient’s condition, a delay in 
the order to provide a written revision to an existing written directive would 
jeopardize the patient’s health, and provided that: 
(a) 
The oral revision is documented as soon as possible in writing in the 
patient’s record; and 
(b) 
A revised written directive is signed by an authorized user within 48 
hours of the oral revision; and 
(5) 
Shall be retained (a copy is acceptable) for 3 years. 
24.6.2.2 
The registrant shall develop, implement, and maintain written procedures to 
ensure that: 
(1) 
Prior to the administration of each course of radiation treatments, the human 
patient’s or human research subject’s identity is verified by more than one 
method as the individual named in the written directive; 
(2) 
Each administration is in accordance with the written directive; 
(3) 
Radiation therapy final plans of treatment and related calculations are in 
accordance with the respective written directives by: 
(a) 
Checking both manual and computer generated dose calculations to 
verify they are correct and in accordance with the written directive; and 
(b) 
Verifying that any computer-generated calculations are correctly 
transferred into the consoles of therapeutic medical units; 
(4) 
Any unintended deviation from the written directive is identified, evaluated and 
appropriate action is taken; and 
(5) 
The registrant retains a copy of the treatment administration procedures for the 
duration of the registration.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
14 
24.6.3 Reports and Notifications of Reportable Medical Events. 
24.6.3.1 
A registrant shall report any event resulting from intervention of a human patient 
or human research subject in which the administration of any beam radiotherapy results, 
or will result in, unintended permanent functional damage to an organ or a physiological 
system, as determined by a physician. 
24.6.3.2 
Other than events that result from intervention by a human patient or human 
research subject, a registrant shall report any event in which the delivered dose to the 
prescribed point or volume: 
(1) 
Involved the wrong individual or the wrong treatment site; or 
(2) 
Involved: 
(a) 
A calculated administered dose that differs from the: 
(i) 
Total prescribed dose by more than 10 percent of the total 
prescribed dose, for a total prescribed dose consisting of three 
(3) or fewer fractions; or 
(ii) 
Total prescribed dose by more than 20 percent of the total 
prescribed dose; or 
(iii) 
Weekly prescribed dose by more than 30 percent. 
24.6.3.3 
The registrant shall notify the Department by telephone no later than the next 
calendar day after discovery of the reportable medical event. 
24.6.3.4 
The registrant shall submit a written report to the Department within 15 calendar 
days after discovery of the reportable medical event pursuant to 24.6, to include: 
(1) 
The registrant or licensee’s name; 
(2) 
The name of the authorized user who signed the written directive and/or who 
supervised delivery of the prescribed dose; 
(3) 
The name(s) of the Registered Medical Physicist(s); 
(4) 
The name(s) of the radiation therapist(s); 
(5) 
A brief description of the event; 
(6) 
Why the event occurred; 
(7) 
The room the event occurred in; 
(8) 
The type of radiotherapy equipment involved in the event; 
(9) 
Copies of written protocols; 
(10) 
The effect, if any, on the individual who received the dose; 
(11) 
Actions, if any, that have been taken, or are planned, to prevent recurrence; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
15 
(12) 
Certification that the registrant notified the individual who received the dose (or 
the individual's responsible relative or guardian) or, if not, the reason notification 
was not provided. 
24.6.3.5 
The report shall not contain the affected individual's name or any other 
information that could lead to identification of the individual who received the dose. 
24.6.3.6 
The registrant shall provide notification of the reportable medical event, no later 
than 24 hours after its discovery, to the authorized user (and to the referring physician if 
other than the authorized user). 
24.6.3.7 
The registrant shall notify the affected individual no later than 24 hours after the 
reportable medical event is discovered, unless, based on medical judgment, the 
authorized user informs the registrant in writing that telling the individual would be 
harmful. 
(1) 
The registrant shall notify the affected individual as soon as possible if the 
authorized user cannot be reached within 24 hours. 
(2) 
The registrant shall not delay any appropriate medical care for the affected 
individual, including any necessary remedial care as a result of the reportable 
medical event, because of any delay in notification. 
(3) 
To meet the requirements of this section, the notification of the affected individual 
may be made instead to that individual's responsible relative or guardian. 
(4) 
If a verbal notification is made, the registrant shall inform the affected individual, 
or appropriate responsible relative or guardian, that a written description of the 
event can be obtained from the registrant upon request. The registrant shall 
provide such a written description if requested. 
24.6.3.8 
Aside from the notification requirement, nothing in this section affects any rights 
or duties of registrants, licensees, and physicians in relation to each other, to an 
individual affected by the reportable medical event, or to that individual's responsible 
relatives or guardians. 
24.6.3.9 
A registrant shall retain a record of a reportable medical event for 3 years, 
containing: 
(1) 
The registrant’s or licensee's name; 
(2) 
The name of each individual involved; 
(3) 
The medical records number or equivalent means to identify the individual who is 
the subject of the reportable medical event; 
(4) 
A brief description of the event and why it occurred; 
(5) 
The effect, if any, on any individual who received the dose; 
(6) 
The actions, if any, taken, or planned, to prevent recurrence; and 
(7) 
Whether the registrant notified the individual (or the individual's responsible 
relative or guardian) or, if not, the reason notification was not provided.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
16 
24.6.3.10 
A copy of the record required under 24.6.3.9 shall be provided to the authorized 
user(s), if other than the registrant or licensee, within 15 calendar days after discovery of 
the reportable medical event. 
SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS 
24.7 
Therapeutic Radiation Machines of Less Than 500 kV. 
24.7.1 Leakage Radiation. 
24.7.1.1 
For each therapeutic radiation machine, the registrant shall determine for all 
systems the maximum leakage radiation at 5 centimeters from the tube housing 
assembly, and also at 1 meter from the target for systems > 50 to < 500 kV, or obtain 
equivalent measured and published data from the manufacturer or by other means 
acceptable to the Department. 
24.7.1.2 
When the x-ray tube is operated at its maximum rated tube current for the 
maximum kV, the leakage air kerma rate: 
(1) 
For systems 5 to 50 kV, shall not exceed 1 mGy (100 mrad) in any one hour, 
measured at any position 5 centimeters from the tube housing assembly. 
(2) 
For systems > 50 to < 500 kV, shall not exceed 1 cGy (1 rad) in any one hour, 
measured at a distance of 1 meter from the target in any direction. 
(a) 
This air kerma rate measurement may be averaged over areas no larger 
than 100 square centimeters. 
(b) 
In addition, the air kerma rate at a distance of 5 centimeters from the 
surface of the tube housing assembly shall not exceed 30 cGy (30 rad) 
per hour. 
24.7.1.3 
Records on leakage radiation measurements shall be maintained at the 
installation for inspection by the Department. 
24.7.2 Permanent Beam Limiting Devices. 
24.7.2.1 
Permanent diaphragms or cones used for limiting the useful beam shall provide 
at least the same degree of attenuation as required for the tube housing assembly. 
24.7.3 Adjustable or Removable Beam Limiting Devices. 
24.7.3.1 
All adjustable or removable beam limiting devices, diaphragms, cones or blocks 
shall not transmit more than five (5) percent of the useful beam for the most penetrating 
beam used. 
24.7.3.2 
When adjustable beam limiting devices are used, the position and shape of the 
radiation field shall be indicated by a light beam, as applicable to the device as originally 
manufactured. 
24.7.4 Filter System. 
24.7.4.1 
The filter system shall be so designed that: 
(1) 
Filters cannot be accidentally displaced at any possible tube orientation;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
17 
(2) 
An interlock system prevents irradiation if the proper filter is not in place; 
(3) 
The air kerma rate escaping from the filter slot shall not exceed 1 cGy (1 rad) per 
hour at one meter under any operating conditions; and 
(4) 
Each filter shall be marked as to its material of construction and its thickness. 
24.7.5 Tube Immobilization. 
24.7.5.1 
The x-ray tube shall be so mounted that it cannot accidentally turn or slide with 
respect to the housing aperture; and 
24.7.5.2 
The tube housing assembly shall be capable of being immobilized for stationary 
portal treatments. 
24.7.6 Source Marking. 
24.7.6.1 
The tube housing assembly shall be so marked that it is possible to determine 
the location of the source to within 5 millimeters, and such marking shall be readily 
accessible for use during calibration procedures. 
24.7.7 Beam Block. 
24.7.7.1 
On contact therapy systems, a shield of at least 0.5 millimeters of lead 
equivalency at 100 kV shall be positioned over the entire useful beam exit port during 
periods when the tube is energized and the beam is not in use. 
24.7.8 Timer. 
24.7.8.1 
A suitable irradiation control device shall be provided to terminate the irradiation 
after a pre-set time interval. 
24.7.8.2 
The timer required by 24.7.8.1 shall: 
(1) 
Have a display at the treatment control panel; 
(2) 
Have a pre-set time selector and an elapsed time or time remaining indicator; 
(3) 
Be a cumulative timer that activates with an indication of "BEAM-ON" and retains 
its reading after irradiation is interrupted or terminated. After irradiation is 
terminated and before irradiation can be reinitiated, it shall be necessary to reset 
the elapsed time indicator; 
(4) 
Terminate irradiation when a pre-selected time has elapsed, if any dose 
monitoring system present has not previously terminated irradiation; 
(5) 
Permit accurate pre-setting and determination of exposure times as short as one 
second; 
(6) 
Not permit an exposure if set at zero; 
(7) 
Not activate until the shutter is opened when irradiation is controlled by a shutter 
mechanism unless calibration includes a timer error correction to compensate for 
mechanical lag; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
18 
(8) 
Be accurate to within one percent of the selected value or one second, whichever 
is greater. 
24.7.9 Control Panel Functions. 
24.7.9.1 
The control panel, in addition to the displays required by other provisions in 24.7, 
shall have: 
(1) 
An indication of whether electrical power is available at the control panel and if 
activation of the x-ray tube is possible; 
(2) 
An indication of whether x-rays are being produced; 
(3) 
A means for indicating x-ray tube potential and current; 
(4) 
A means for terminating an exposure at any time; 
(5) 
A locking device which will prevent unauthorized use of the therapeutic radiation 
machine; and 
(6) 
For therapeutic radiation machines manufactured after September 30, 1999, a 
positive display of specific filter(s) in the beam. 
24.7.10 Multiple Tubes. 
24.7.10.1 
When a control panel may energize more than one x-ray tube: 
(1) 
Only one x-ray tube shall activate at any time; 
(2) 
The control panel shall have an indicator that identifies which x-ray tube is 
activated; and 
(3) 
An indicator at the tube housing assembly shall identify when that tube is 
energized. 
24.7.11 Target-Skin Distance (TSD). 
24.7.11.1 
Means shall be provided to determine the central axis TSD to within one 
centimeter and to reproduce this measurement to within 2 millimeters thereafter. 
24.7.12 Shutters. 
24.7.12.1 
Unless it is possible to bring the x-ray output to the prescribed exposure 
parameters within five (5) seconds after turning "ON" the x-ray switch to energize the x-
ray tube, the beam shall be attenuated by a shutter having a lead equivalency not less 
than that of the tube housing assembly. 
(1) 
In addition, after the unit is at operating parameters, the shutter shall be 
controlled by the operator from the control panel. 
(2) 
An indication of shutter position shall appear at the control panel.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
19 
24.7.13 Low Filtration X-ray Tubes. 
24.7.13.1 
Each therapeutic radiation machine equipped with a beryllium or other low-
filtration window (HVL < 0.1 mm of Al) shall be clearly labeled as such upon the tube 
housing assembly and shall be provided with a permanent warning device on the control 
panel that is activated when no additional filtration is present, to indicate that the dose 
rate is very high. 
24.7.14 Facility Design Requirements for Therapeutic Radiation Machines Capable of Operating in the 
Range 50 kV to 500 kV. 
24.7.14.1 
In addition to shielding adequate to meet requirements of 24.4.5, the treatment 
room shall meet the following design requirements: 
(1) 
Provision shall be made for continuous two-way aural communication between 
the patient and the operator at the control panel, except for an intraoperative 
radiotherapy (IORT) room where the patient is under general anesthesia and no 
staff remain in the room. 
(2) 
Viewing Systems. 
(a) 
Windows, mirrors, closed-circuit television or an equivalent viewing 
system shall be provided to permit continuous observation of the patient 
following positioning and during irradiation. 
(b) 
The viewing system shall be so located that the operator may observe 
the patient from the treatment control panel. 
(b) 
The therapeutic radiation machine shall not be used for patient irradiation 
unless at least one viewing system is operational. 
24.7.15 Additional Requirements. 
24.7.15.1 
Treatment rooms that contain a therapeutic radiation machine capable of 
operating above 150 kV shall meet the following additional requirements: 
(1) 
All protective barriers shall be fixed except for entrance doors or beam 
interceptors; 
(2) 
The control panel shall be located outside the treatment room or in a totally 
enclosed booth; 
(3) 
Interlocks shall be provided such that all entrance doors, including doors to any 
interior booths, shall be closed before treatment can be initiated or continued. If 
the radiation beam is interrupted by any door opening, it shall not be possible to 
restore the machine to operation without closing the door and reinitiating 
irradiation by manual action at the control panel; and 
(4) 
When any door referred to in 24.7.15.1(3) is opened while the x-ray tube is 
activated, the air kerma rate in the useful beam at a distance of one meter from 
the source shall be reduced to less than 1 mGy (100 mrad) per hour.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
20 
24.7.16 Full Calibration Measurements. 
24.7.16.1 
Full calibration of a therapeutic radiation machine subject to 24.7 shall be 
performed by, or under the personal supervision of, a Registered Medical Physicist: 
(1) 
Before the first medical use following installation or reinstallation of the 
therapeutic radiation machine; 
(2) 
At intervals not exceeding one year; and 
(3) 
Before medical use under the following conditions: 
(a) 
Whenever quality assurance check measurements indicate that the 
radiation output differs by more than five (5) percent from the value 
obtained at the last full calibration and the difference cannot be 
reconciled; and 
(b) 
Following any component replacement, major repair, or modification of 
components that could significantly affect the characteristics of the 
radiation beam. 
(4) 
Notwithstanding the requirements of 24.7.16.1(3): 
(a) 
Full calibration of therapeutic radiation machines with multi-energy 
capabilities is required only for those modes and/or energies that are not 
within their acceptable range; and 
(b) 
If the repair, replacement or modification does not affect all energies, full 
calibration shall be performed on the affected energy that is in most 
frequent use in treatments at the facility. The remaining energies may be 
validated with quality assurance check procedures against the criteria in 
24.7.16.1(3)(a). 
24.7.16.2 
To satisfy the requirement of 24.7.16.1, full calibration shall include all 
measurements recommended for annual calibration by AAPM Report 46, or AAPM Task 
Group 142 report unless the Registered Medical Physicist determines that a particular 
recommendation of these reports is not warranted for the clinical tasks for which the 
equipment will be used, or is not applicable to the type of therapy device in use. 
Deviations from these guidance documents shall be documented in the written 
procedures. 
24.7.16.3 
The registrant shall maintain a record of each calibration for the duration of the 
registration, to include: 
(1) 
The date of the calibration; 
(2) 
The manufacturer's name, model number, and serial number for both the 
therapeutic radiation machine and the x-ray tube; 
(3) 
The manufacturer's name, model number and serial number for the instrument(s) 
used to calibrate the therapeutic radiation machine; and 
(4) 
The signature of the Registered Medical Physicist performing or exercising 
personal supervision of the calibration.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
21 
24.7.17 Periodic Quality Assurance Checks. 
24.7.17.1 
Periodic quality assurance checks shall be performed on therapeutic radiation 
machines subject to 24.7, which are capable of operation at greater than or equal to 50 
kV. 
24.7.17.2 
To satisfy the requirement of 24.7.17.1, quality assurance checks shall meet the 
following requirements: 
(1) 
The registrant shall perform quality assurance checks in accordance with written 
procedures established by the Registered Medical Physicist; and 
(2) 
The quality assurance check procedures shall specify the frequency at which 
tests or measurements are to be performed. 
(a) 
The quality assurance check procedures shall specify that the quality 
assurance check shall be performed during the calibration specified in 
24.7.16.1. 
(b) 
The acceptable tolerance for each parameter measured in the quality 
assurance check, when compared to the value for that parameter 
determined in the calibration specified in 24.7.16.1, shall be stated. 
24.7.17.3 
The cause for a parameter exceeding a tolerance set by the Registered Medical 
Physicist shall be investigated and corrected before the system is used for patient 
irradiation. 
24.7.17.4 
Whenever a quality assurance check indicates a significant change in the 
operating characteristics of a system, as specified in the Registered Medical Physicist's 
quality assurance check procedures, the system shall be recalibrated as required in 
24.7.16.1. 
24.7.17.5 
The registrant shall use the dosimetry system described in 24.4.3 to make the 
quality assurance check required in 24.7.17.2. 
24.7.17.6 
The registrant shall have the Registered Medical Physicist review and sign the 
results of each radiation output quality assurance check within one month of the date that 
the check was performed. 
24.7.17.7 
The registrant shall ensure that safety quality assurance checks of therapeutic 
radiation machines subject to 24.7 are performed at intervals not to exceed one month. 
24.7.17.8 
Notwithstanding the requirements of 24.7.17.6 and 24.7.17.7, the registrant shall 
ensure that no therapeutic radiation machine is used to administer radiation to humans 
unless the quality assurance checks required by 24.7.17.6 and 24.7.17.7 have been 
performed within the 30 day period immediately prior to said administration. 
24.7.17.9 
To satisfy the requirement of 24.7.17.7, safety quality assurance checks shall 
ensure proper operation of: 
(1) 
Electrical interlocks at each radiation therapy room entrance; 
(2) 
The "BEAM-ON" and termination switches;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
22 
(3) 
If applicable, beam condition indicator lights on the access door(s), control 
console, and in the radiation therapy room; 
(4) 
Viewing systems; and 
(5) 
If applicable, electrically operated treatment room doors from inside and outside 
the treatment room. 
24.7.17.10 
The registrant shall maintain a record of each quality assurance check required 
by 24.7.17.1 and 24.7.17.7 for three (3) years, including: 
(1) 
The date of the quality assurance check; 
(2) 
The manufacturer's name, model number, and serial number of the therapeutic 
radiation machine; 
(3) 
The manufacturer's name, model number and serial number for the instrument(s) 
used to measure the radiation output of the therapeutic radiation machine; and 
(4) 
The signature of the individual who performed the periodic quality assurance 
check. 
24.7.18 Operating Procedures. 
24.7.18.1 
The therapeutic radiation machine shall not be used for irradiation of a patient 
unless the requirements of 24.7.16 and 24.7.17 have been met; 
24.7.18.2 
Therapeutic radiation machines shall not be left unattended unless secured 
pursuant to 24.7.9.1(5); 
24.7.18.3 
When a patient must be held in position for radiation therapy, mechanical 
supporting or restraining devices shall be used; 
24.7.18.4 
The tube housing assembly shall not be held by an individual during operation 
unless the assembly is designed to require such holding and the peak tube potential of 
the system does not exceed 50 kV. 
(1) 
In such cases, the holder shall wear protective gloves and apron of not less than 
0.5 millimeters lead equivalency at 100 kV; 
24.7.18.5 
A copy of the current operating and emergency procedures shall be maintained 
at the therapeutic radiation machine control console; and 
24.7.18.6 
No individual other than the patient shall be in the treatment room during 
exposures from therapeutic radiation machines operating above 150 kV. 
24.7.18.7 
At energies less than or equal to 150 kV, any individual, other than the patient, in 
the treatment room shall be protected by a barrier sufficient to meet the requirements of 
4.6.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
23 
24.8 
Therapeutic Radiation Machines - Photon Therapy Systems (500 kV and Above) and 
Electron Therapy Systems (500 keV and Above). 
24.8.1 Facility Design Requirements in Addition to Shielding Required by 24.4.5 and Appendix 24A. 
24.8.1.1 
All protective barriers shall be fixed, except for access doors to the treatment 
room or movable beam interceptors. 
24.8.1.2 
The control panel, in addition to other requirements specified in Part 24, shall: 
(1) 
Be located outside the treatment room; 
(2) 
Provide an indication of whether electrical power is available at the control panel 
and if activation of the radiation is possible; 
(3) 
Provide an indication of whether radiation is being produced; and 
(4) 
Include an access control (locking) device that will prevent unauthorized use of 
the therapeutic radiation machine. 
24.8.1.3 
Viewing Systems. 
(1) 
Windows, mirrors, closed-circuit television or an equivalent viewing system shall 
be provided to permit continuous observation of the patient following positioning 
and during irradiation. 
(2) 
The viewing system shall be so located that the operator may observe the patient 
from the treatment control panel. 
(3) 
The therapeutic radiation machine shall not be used for patient irradiation unless 
at least one viewing system is operational. 
24.8.1.4 
Communication. 
(1) 
Provision shall be made for continuous two-way communication between the 
patient and the operator at the control panel. 
(2) 
The therapeutic radiation machine shall not be used for irradiation of a patient 
unless continuous two-way communication is possible. 
24.8.1.5 
Room Entrances. 
(1) 
Each treatment room entrance shall be provided with a warning light, in a readily 
observable position near the outside of each access door or entrance, that will 
indicate when the useful beam is "ON" and when it is "OFF". 
24.8.1.6 
Entrance Interlocks. 
(1) 
Interlocks shall be provided such that all access controls are activated before 
treatment can be initiated or continue. 
(2) 
If the radiation beam is interrupted by any access control, it shall not be possible 
to restore the machine to operation without resetting the access control and 
reinitiating irradiation by manual action at the control panel.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
24 
24.8.1.7 
Beam Interceptor Interlocks. 
(1) 
If the shielding material in any protective barrier requires the presence of a beam 
interceptor to ensure compliance with 4.14.1, interlocks shall be provided to 
prevent the production of radiation, unless the beam interceptor is in place, 
whenever the useful beam is directed at the designated barriers. 
24.8.1.8 
Emergency Cutoff Switches. 
(1) 
At least one emergency power cutoff switch shall be located in the radiation 
therapy room and shall terminate all equipment electrical power including 
radiation and mechanical motion. This switch is in addition to the termination 
switch required by 24.8.11. 
(2) 
All emergency power cutoff switches shall include a manual reset so that the 
therapeutic radiation machine cannot be restarted from the unit's control console 
without resetting the emergency cutoff switch. 
24.8.1.9 
Safety Interlocks. 
(1) 
All safety interlocks shall be designed so that any defect or component failure in 
the safety interlock system prevents or terminates operation of the therapeutic 
radiation machine. 
24.8.2 Leakage Radiation Outside the Maximum Useful Beam in Photon and Electron Modes. 
24.8.2.1 
The absorbed dose due to leakage radiation (excluding neutrons) at any point 
outside the maximum sized useful beam, but within a circular plane of radius 2 meters 
which is perpendicular to and centered on the central axis of the useful beam at the 
nominal treatment distance (i.e. patient plane), shall not exceed a maximum of 0.2 
percent and an average of 0.1 percent of the absorbed dose on the central axis of the 
beam at the nominal treatment distance. Measurements shall be averaged over an area 
not exceeding 100 square centimeters at a minimum of 16 points uniformly distributed in 
the plane; 
24.8.2.2 
Except for the area defined in 24.8.2.1, the absorbed dose due to leakage 
radiation (excluding neutrons) at one meter from the electron path between the electron 
source and the target or electron window shall not exceed 0.5 percent of the absorbed 
dose on the central axis of the beam at the nominal treatment distance. Measurements 
shall be averaged over an area not exceeding 100 square centimeters; 
24.8.2.3 
For equipment manufactured after September 30, 1999, the neutron absorbed 
dose outside the useful beam shall be in compliance with International Electrotechnical 
Commission, Document 601-2-1, June 1998; and 
24.8.2.4 
For each therapeutic radiation machine, the registrant shall determine the 
leakage radiation existing at the positions specified in 24.8.2.1, 24.8.2.2 and 24.8.2.3 for 
the specified operating conditions, or obtain equivalent measured and published leakage 
radiation data from the manufacturer or by other means acceptable to the Department. 
24.8.2.5 
Records on leakage radiation measurements shall be maintained at the 
installation for inspection by the Department.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
25 
24.8.3 Leakage Radiation Through Beam Limiting Devices. 
24.8.3.1 
Photon Radiation. 
(1) 
All adjustable or interchangeable beam limiting devices, excluding secondary 
custom blocks, shall attenuate the useful beam such that at the nominal 
treatment distance, the maximum absorbed dose anywhere in the area shielded 
by the beam limiting device(s) shall not exceed two (2) percent of the maximum 
absorbed dose on the central axis of the useful beam measured in a 10 
centimeter by 10 centimeter radiation field; 
24.8.3.2 
Electron Radiation. 
(1) 
All adjustable or interchangeable electron applicators shall attenuate the 
radiation, including but not limited to photon radiation generated by electrons 
incident on the beam limiting device and electron applicator and other parts of 
the radiation head, such that the absorbed dose in a plane perpendicular to the 
central axis of the useful beam at the nominal treatment distance shall not 
exceed: 
(a) 
A maximum of two (2) percent and average of 0.5 percent of the 
absorbed dose, at dose maximum, on the central axis of the useful beam 
at the nominal treatment distance. This limit shall apply beyond a line 7 
centimeters outside the periphery of the useful beam; and 
(b) 
A maximum of ten (10) percent of the absorbed dose, at dose maximum, 
on the central axis of the useful beam at the nominal treatment distance. 
This limit shall apply beyond a line 2 centimeters outside the periphery of 
the useful beam. 
24.8.3.3 
Measurement of Leakage Radiation. 
(1) 
Photon Radiation. 
(a) 
Measurements of leakage radiation through the beam limiting devices 
shall be made with the beam limiting devices closed and any residual 
aperture blocked by at least two (2) tenth-value-layers (TVL) of suitable 
absorbing material. In the case of overlapping beam-limiting devices, the 
leakage radiation through each set shall be measured independently at 
the depth of maximum dose. 
(b) 
Measurements shall be made using a radiation detector of area not 
exceeding 10 square centimeters; 
(2) 
Electron Radiation. 
(a) 
Measurements of leakage radiation through the electron applicators shall 
be made with the electron beam directed into the air and using a 
radiation detector of area up to but not exceeding one square centimeter 
suitably protected against radiation that has been scattered from material 
beyond the radiation detector. 
(b) 
Measurements shall be made using one centimeter of water equivalent 
build-up material.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
26 
24.8.4 Filters/Wedges. 
24.8.4.1 
Each wedge filter that is removable from the system shall be clearly marked with 
an identification number. 
24.8.4.2 
For removable wedge filters, the nominal wedge angle shall appear on the 
wedge or wedge tray (if permanently mounted to the tray). 
24.8.4.3 
If the wedge or wedge tray is significantly damaged, the wedge transmission 
factor shall be re-determined; 
24.8.4.4 
For equipment manufactured after September 30, 1999, which utilizes wedge 
filters, interchangeable field-flattening filters, or interchangeable beam scattering foils: 
(1) 
Irradiation shall not be possible until a selection of a filter or a positive selection 
to use "no filter" has been made at the treatment control panel, either manually or 
automatically; 
(2) 
An interlock system shall be provided to prevent irradiation if the filter selected is 
not in the correct position as selected by the operator or as required by the 
energy/mode selected by the operator; 
(3) 
A display shall be provided at the treatment control panel showing the wedge 
filter(s); and 
(4) 
An interlock shall be provided to prevent irradiation if there is a mismatch 
between the filter and/or beam scattering foil selected by the operator or required 
for the energy/modality selected by the operator. 
24.8.4.5 
If the absorbed dose rate information required by 24.8.9 relates exclusively to 
operation with a field-flattening filter or beam scattering foil in place, such foil or filter shall 
be removable from the therapeutic radiation machine only by the use of tools; 
24.8.5 Stray Radiation in the Useful Beam. 
24.8.5.1 
The registrant shall determine during acceptance testing, or obtain from the 
manufacturer or by other means acceptable to the Department, measured and published 
data sufficient to ensure that x-ray stray radiation in the useful electron beam, absorbed 
dose at the surface during x-ray irradiation and stray neutron radiation in the useful x-ray 
beam are in compliance with International Electrotechnical Commission, Document 601-
2-1, June 1998, or equivalent criteria. 
24.8.6 Beam Monitors. 
24.8.6.1 
All therapeutic radiation machines subject to 24.8 shall be provided with 
redundant beam monitoring systems. The sensors for these systems shall be fixed in the 
useful beam during treatment to indicate the dose monitor unit rate. 
24.8.6.2 
All therapeutic radiation machines subject to 24.8 shall be provided with at least 
two (2) independently powered integrating dose meters. 
(1) 
Alternatively, common elements may be used if the production of radiation is 
terminated upon failure of any common element.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
27 
(2) 
Equipment manufactured on or before September 30, 1999, shall be provided 
with at least one radiation detector. This detector shall be incorporated into a 
useful beam monitoring system. 
24.8.6.3 
The detector and the system into which that detector is incorporated shall meet 
the following requirements: 
(1) 
Each detector shall be removable only with tools and, if movable, shall be 
interlocked to prevent incorrect positioning; 
(2) 
Each detector shall form part of a beam monitoring system from whose readings 
in dose monitor units the absorbed dose at a reference point can be calculated; 
(3) 
Each beam monitoring system shall be capable of independently monitoring, 
interrupting, and terminating irradiation; and 
(4) 
The design of the beam monitoring systems shall ensure that the: 
(a) 
Malfunctioning of one system shall not affect the correct functioning of 
the other systems; and 
(b) 
Failure of either system shall terminate irradiation or prevent the initiation 
of radiation; 
(5) 
Each beam monitoring system shall have a legible display at the treatment 
control panel. For equipment manufactured after September 30, 1999, each 
display shall: 
(a) 
Maintain a reading until intentionally reset; 
(b) 
Have only one scale and no electrical or mechanical scale multiplying 
factors; 
(c) 
Utilize a design such that increasing dose is displayed by increasing 
numbers; and 
(d) 
In the event of power failure, the beam monitoring information required in 
24.8.6.3(5)(c) displayed at the control panel at the time of failure shall be 
retrievable in at least one system for a twenty (20) minute period of time. 
24.8.7 Beam Symmetry. 
24.8.7.1 
Bent-beam linear accelerators subject to 24.8 shall be provided with auxiliary 
device(s) to monitor beam symmetry; 
24.8.7.2 
The device(s) required in 24.8.7.1 shall be able to detect field asymmetry greater 
than ten (10) percent; and 
24.8.7.3 
The device(s) required in 24.8.7.1 shall be configured to terminate irradiation if 
the specifications in 24.8.7.2 cannot be maintained. 
24.8.8 Selection and Display of Dose Monitor Units. 
24.8.8.1 
Irradiation shall not be possible until a new selection of a number of dose monitor 
units has been made at the treatment control panel;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
28 
24.8.8.2 
The pre-selected number of dose monitor units shall be displayed at the 
treatment control panel until reset manually for the next irradiation; 
24.8.8.3 
After termination of irradiation, it shall be necessary to reset the dosimeter 
display before subsequent treatment can be initiated; and 
24.8.8.4 
For equipment manufactured after September 30, 1999, after termination of 
irradiation, it shall be necessary for the operator to reset the pre-selected dose monitor 
units before irradiation can be initiated. 
24.8.9 Air Kerma Rate/Absorbed Dose Rate. 
24.8.9.1 
For equipment manufactured after September 30, 1999, a system shall be 
provided from whose readings the air kerma rate or absorbed dose rate at a reference 
point can be calculated. The radiation detectors specified in 24.8.6 may form part of this 
system. 
24.8.9.2 
In addition: 
(1) 
The dose monitor unit rate shall be displayed at the treatment control panel; 
(2) 
If the equipment can deliver under any conditions an air kerma rate or absorbed 
dose rate at the nominal treatment distance more than twice the maximum value 
specified by the manufacturer, a device shall be provided which terminates 
irradiation when the air kerma rate or absorbed dose rate exceeds a value twice 
the specified maximum; 
(3) 
If the equipment can deliver under any fault condition(s) an air kerma rate or 
absorbed dose rate at the nominal treatment distance more than ten (10) times 
the maximum value specified by the manufacturer, a device shall be provided to 
prevent the air kerma rate or absorbed dose rate anywhere in the radiation field 
from exceeding twice the specified maximum value and to terminate irradiation if 
the excess absorbed dose at the nominal treatment distance exceeds 4 Gy (400 
rad); and 
(4) 
For each therapeutic radiation machine, the registrant shall determine, or obtain 
from the manufacturer or by other means acceptable to the Department, the 
maximum value(s) specified in 24.8.9.2(2) and 24.8.9.3(3) for the specified 
operating conditions. 
24.8.9.3 
The following records shall be maintained at the installation for inspection by the 
Department: 
(1) 
The dose rate at which the irradiation will be terminated pursuant to 24.8.9.2(2); 
and 
(2) 
The maximum value(s) specified in 24.8.9.2(2) and 24.8.9.2(3). 
24.8.10 Termination of Irradiation by the Beam Monitoring System or Systems During Stationary Beam 
Radiation Therapy. 
24.8.10.1 
Each primary system shall terminate irradiation when the pre-selected number of 
dose monitor units has been detected by the system;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
29 
24.8.10.2 
If the original design of the equipment included a secondary dose monitoring 
system, that system shall be capable of terminating irradiation when not more than fifteen 
(15) percent or 40 dose monitor units above the pre-selected number of dose monitor 
units set at the control panel has been detected by the secondary dose monitoring 
system; and 
24.8.10.3 
For equipment manufactured after September 30, 1999, an indicator on the 
control panel shall show which monitoring system has terminated irradiation. 
24.8.11 Termination of Irradiation. 
24.8.11.1 
It shall be possible to terminate irradiation and equipment movement or go from 
an interruption condition to termination condition at any time from the operator's position 
at the treatment control panel. 
24.8.12 Interruption of Irradiation. 
24.8.12.1 
If a therapeutic radiation machine has an interrupt mode, it shall be possible to 
interrupt irradiation and equipment movements at any time from the treatment control 
panel. 
24.8.12.2 
Following an interruption it shall be possible to restart irradiation by operator 
action without any reselection of operating conditions. 
24.8.12.3 
If any change is made of a pre-selected value during an interruption, irradiation 
and equipment movements shall be automatically terminated. 
24.8.13 Timer. 
24.8.13.1 
A suitable irradiation control device shall be provided to terminate the irradiation 
after a pre-set time interval. 
24.8.13.2 
The timer shall: 
(1) 
Have a display at the treatment control panel; 
(2) 
Have a pre-set time selector and an elapsed time indicator; 
(3) 
Be a cumulative timer that activates with an indication of "BEAM-ON" and retains 
its reading after irradiation is interrupted or terminated; 
(4) 
Require that the elapsed time indicator be reset after irradiation is terminated and 
before irradiation can be reinitiated; and 
(5) 
Terminate irradiation when a pre-selected time has elapsed, if the dose 
monitoring systems have not previously terminated irradiation. 
24.8.14 Selection of Radiation Type. 
24.8.14.1 
Equipment capable of both x-ray therapy and electron therapy shall meet the 
following additional requirements: 
(1) 
Irradiation shall not be possible until a selection of radiation type (x-rays or 
electrons) has been made at the treatment control panel;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
30 
(2) 
The radiation type selected shall be displayed at the treatment control panel 
before and during irradiation; 
(3) 
An interlock system shall be provided to ensure that the equipment can 
principally emit only the radiation type that has been selected; 
(4) 
An interlock system shall be provided to prevent irradiation with x-rays, except to 
obtain an image, when electron applicators are fitted; 
(5) 
An interlock system shall be provided to prevent irradiation with electrons when 
accessories specific for x-ray therapy are fitted; and 
(6) 
An interlock system shall be provided to prevent irradiation if any selected 
operations carried out in the treatment room do not agree with the selected 
operations carried out at the treatment control panel. 
24.8.15 Selection of Energy. 
24.8.15.1 
Equipment capable of generating radiation beams of different energies shall 
meet the following requirements: 
(1) 
Irradiation shall not be possible until a selection of energy has been made at the 
treatment control panel; 
(2) 
The nominal energy value selected shall be displayed at the treatment control 
panel until reset manually for the next irradiation. After termination of irradiation, 
it shall be necessary to reset the nominal energy value selected before 
subsequent treatment can be initiated; 
(3) 
Irradiation shall not be possible until the appropriate flattening filter or scattering 
foil for the selected energy is in its proper location; and 
(4) 
For equipment manufactured after September 30, 1999, the selection of energy 
shall be in compliance with the current revision of International Electrotechnical 
Commission, Document 601-2-1 in effect at the time of equipment manufacture. 
24.8.16 Selection of Stationary Beam Radiation Therapy or Moving Beam Radiation Therapy. 
24.8.16.1 
Therapeutic radiation machines capable of both stationary beam radiation 
therapy and moving beam radiation therapy shall meet the following requirements: 
(1) 
Irradiation shall not be possible until a selection of stationary beam radiation 
therapy or moving beam radiation therapy has been made at the treatment 
control panel; 
(2) 
The mode of operation shall be displayed at the treatment control panel; 
(3) 
An interlock system shall be provided to ensure that the equipment can operate 
only in the mode that has been selected; 
(4) 
An interlock system shall be provided to prevent irradiation if any selected 
parameter in the treatment room does not agree with the selected parameter at 
the treatment control panel;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
31 
(5) 
Moving beam radiation therapy shall be controlled to obtain the selected 
relationships between incremental dose monitor units and incremental 
movement. 
(a) 
For equipment manufactured after September 30, 1999: 
(i) 
An interlock system shall be provided to terminate irradiation if 
the number of dose monitor units delivered in any ten (10) 
degrees of rotation or one cm of linear motion differs by more 
than twenty (20) percent from the selected value; 
(ii) 
Where angle terminates the irradiation in moving beam radiation 
therapy, the dose monitor units delivered shall differ by less than 
five (5) percent from the dose monitor unit value selected; 
(iii) 
An interlock shall be provided to prevent motion of more than five 
(5) degrees or one cm beyond the selected limits during moving 
beam radiation therapy; 
(iv) 
An interlock shall be provided to require that a selection, 
verification, or display of direction of rotation be made at the 
treatment control panel in all units which are capable of both 
clockwise and counter-clockwise moving beam radiation therapy; 
(v) 
Moving beam radiation therapy shall be controlled with both 
primary position sensors and secondary position sensors to 
obtain the selected relationships between incremental dose 
monitor units and incremental movement; 
(iv) 
Where the beam monitor system terminates the irradiation in 
moving beam radiation therapy, the termination of irradiation 
shall be as required by 24.8.10; and 
(b) 
For equipment manufactured after September 30, 1999, an interlock 
system shall be provided to terminate irradiation if movement: 
(i) 
Occurs during stationary beam radiation therapy; or 
(ii) 
Does not start or stop during moving beam radiation therapy 
unless such motion or stoppage is a pre-planned function. 
24.8.17 Surveys for Residual Radiation. 
24.8.17.1 
Prior to machining, removing or working on a therapeutic radiation machine 
capable of generating photon and electron energies above 10 MV, a survey for residual 
activity of components that might have become activated due to photo-neutron 
production shall be conducted if the Registered Medical Physicist determines, consistent 
with 4.18.1.1, that 10% of the limits in 4.6 might be exceeded. 
24.8.18 Operating Procedures. 
24.8.18.1 
No individual, other than the patient, shall be in the treatment room during 
treatment or during any irradiation for testing or calibration purposes;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
32 
24.8.18.2 
Therapeutic radiation machines shall not be made available for medical use 
unless the requirements of 24.4.1, 24.8.19 and 24.8.20 have been met; 
24.8.18.3 
Therapeutic radiation machines, when not in operation, shall be secured to 
prevent unauthorized use; 
24.8.18.4 
When adjustable beam limiting devices are used, the position and shape of the 
radiation field shall be indicated by a light field, when available; 
24.8.18.5 
If a patient must be held in position during treatment, mechanical supporting or 
restraining devices shall be used; and 
24.8.18.6 
A copy of the current operating and emergency procedures shall be maintained 
at the therapeutic radiation machine control console. 
24.8.19 Acceptance Testing, Commissioning and Full Calibration Measurements. 
24.8.19.1 
Acceptance testing, commissioning and full calibration of a therapeutic radiation 
machine subject to 24.8 shall be performed by, or under the personal supervision of, a 
Registered Medical Physicist. 
24.8.19.2 
Acceptance testing and commissioning shall be: 
(1) 
Performed in accordance with AAPM Report 47, unless the Registered Medical 
Physicist determines and documents that a particular recommendation of AAPM 
Report 47 is not warranted for the clinical tasks for which the equipment will be 
used; 
(2) 
Performed in accordance with manufacturer’s specifications, unless the 
Registered Medical Physicist determines and documents that a particular 
manufacturer recommendation is not warranted for the clinical tasks for which the 
equipment will be used; and 
(3) 
Conducted before the first medical use following installation or reinstallation of 
the therapeutic radiation machine. 
24.8.19.3 
Full calibration shall include measurement of all parameters required by Table II 
of AAPM Report 46 and shall be performed in accordance with AAPM Report 47, or 
AAPM Task Group 142 report, unless the Registered Medical Physicist determines and 
documents that a particular recommendation of these reports is not warranted for the 
clinical tasks for which the equipment will be used, or is not applicable to the type of 
therapy device in use. 
(1) 
Although it shall not be necessary to complete all elements of a full calibration at 
the same time, all parameters (for all energies) shall be completed at intervals 
not exceeding twelve (12) calendar months, unless a more frequent interval is 
required in Table II of AAPM Report 46 or the AAPM Task Group 142 report.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
33 
24.8.19.4 
All elements of a full calibration necessary to determine that all parameters are 
within acceptable limits shall be performed by, or under the personal supervision of, a 
Registered Medical Physicist: 
(1) 
Whenever quality assurance check measurements indicate that the radiation 
output differs by more than five (5) percent from the value obtained at the last full 
calibration and the difference cannot be reconciled. 
(a) 
Therapeutic radiation machines with multi-energy and/or multi-mode 
capabilities shall only require measurements for those modes and/or 
energies that are not within their acceptable range; and 
(2) 
Following any component replacement, major repair, or modification of 
components that could significantly affect the characteristics of the radiation 
beam. 
(a) 
If the repair, replacement or modification does not affect all modes 
and/or energies, measurements shall be performed on the effected 
mode/energy that is in most frequent use in treatments at the facility. 
(b) 
The remaining energies/modes may be validated with quality assurance 
check procedures against the criteria in 24.8.19.4(1). 
24.8.19.5 
The registrant shall maintain a record of each calibration in an auditable form for 
the duration of the registration. The record shall include: 
(1) 
The date of the calibration; 
(2) 
The manufacturer's name, model number and serial number for the therapeutic 
radiation machine; 
(3) 
The model numbers and serial numbers of the instruments used to calibrate the 
therapeutic radiation machine; and 
(4) 
The signature of the Registered Medical Physicist performing or exercising 
personal supervision of the calibration. 
24.8.20 Periodic Quality Assurance Checks. 
24.8.20.1 
Periodic quality assurance checks shall be performed on all therapeutic radiation 
machines subject to 24.8 at intervals not to exceed those specified in AAPM Report 46, 
or AAPM Task Group 142 report, unless the Registered Medical Physicist determines 
and documents that a particular recommendation of these reports is not warranted for the 
clinical tasks for which the equipment will be used, or is not applicable to the type of 
therapy device in use; 
24.8.20.2 
To satisfy the requirement of 24.8.20.1, quality assurance checks shall include 
determination of central axis radiation output and periodic quality assurance checks 
contained in AAPM Report 46, or AAPM Task Group 142 report unless the Registered 
Medical Physicist determines and documents that a particular recommendation of these 
reports is not warranted for the clinical tasks for which the equipment will be used, or is 
not applicable to the type of therapy device in use;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
34 
24.8.20.3 
The registrant shall use the dosimetry system described in 24.4.3.1, or a 
dosimetry system that has been inter-compared within the previous twelve (12) months 
with the dosimetry system consistent with 24.4.3.2, to make the periodic quality 
assurance checks required in 24.8.20.2; 
24.8.20.4 
The registrant shall perform periodic quality assurance checks required by 
24.8.20.1 in accordance with procedures and frequencies established by the Registered 
Medical Physicist; 
24.8.20.5 
The registrant shall review the results of each periodic radiation output check 
according to the following procedures: 
(1) 
An authorized user or a Registered Medical Physicist shall be immediately 
notified if any radiation output parameter is not within its acceptable tolerance. 
The therapeutic radiation machine shall not be made available for subsequent 
medical use until a Registered Medical Physicist has determined that all radiation 
output parameters are within their acceptable tolerances; and 
(2) 
If all radiation output check parameters appear to be within their acceptable 
range, the radiation output check shall be reviewed and signed by either an 
authorized user or a Registered Medical Physicist weekly; 
24.8.20.6 
Safety quality assurance checks listed in AAPM Report 46 or AAPM Task Group 
142 report shall be performed for therapeutic radiation machines subject to 24.8, unless 
the Registered Medical Physicist determines, and documents in writing, that a particular 
recommendation of these reports is not warranted for the clinical tasks for which the 
equipment will be used, or are not applicable to the type of therapy device in use; 
24.8.20.7 
As a minimum, the following safety quality assurance checks, as applicable to 
the machine, shall be performed by or under the general supervision of the Registered 
Medical Physicist, and at intervals not to exceed one week, unless otherwise specified 
below: 
(1) 
Electrical interlocks at each radiation therapy room entrance; 
(2) 
Proper operation of the "BEAM-ON", interrupt and termination switches; 
(3) 
Beam condition indicator lights on the access doors, control console, and in the 
radiation therapy room; 
(4) 
Viewing systems; 
(5) 
Electrically operated treatment room door(s) from inside and outside the 
treatment room; and 
(6) 
Each month, at least one emergency power cutoff switch shall be tested, except 
where a lesser frequency is otherwise specified in writing by the manufacturer. 
(a) 
If more than one emergency power cutoff switch is installed and not all 
switches are tested at once, each switch shall be tested on a rotating 
basis. 
(b) 
Safety quality assurance checks of the emergency power cutoff switches 
may be conducted at the end of the treatment day in order to minimize 
possible stability problems with the therapeutic radiation machine.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
35 
24.8.20.8 
The registrant shall promptly repair any system identified in 24.8.20.7 that is not 
operating properly; and 
24.8.20.9 
The registrant shall maintain a record of each quality assurance check required 
by 24.8.20.1 and 24.8.20.7 for three (3) years. The record shall include: 
(1) 
The date of the quality assurance check; 
(2) 
The manufacturer's name, model number, and serial number of the therapeutic 
radiation machine; 
(3) 
The manufacturer's name, model number and serial number for the instrument(s) 
used to measure the radiation output of the therapeutic radiation machine; and 
(4) 
The signature of the individual who performed the periodic quality assurance 
check. 
24.8.21 Quality Assurance Checks for Intensity Modulated Radiation Therapy (IMRT) shall: 
24.8.21.1 
Include commissioning and testing of the treatment planning and delivery 
systems, routine quality assurance of the delivery system, and patient-specific validation 
of treatment plans; 
24.8.21.2 
Be performed in accordance with AAPM Report 82, unless the Registered 
Medical Physicist determines and documents that a particular recommendation of AAPM 
Report 82 is not warranted for the clinical tasks for which the equipment will be used; and 
24.8.21.3 
Be performed in accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications. 
24.9 
Quality Assurance For Radiation Therapy Simulation Systems. 
24.9.1 Quality assurance for a simulator shall include acceptance testing and periodic verification of 
system performance; and 
24.9.2 Be performed (unless the Registered Medical Physicist determines and documents that a 
particular recommendation is not warranted for the clinical task for which the equipment will be 
used) in accordance with: 
24.9.2.1 
AAPM Report 46, for a radiographic/fluoroscopic simulator; or 
24.9.2.2 
AAPM Report 83 for a computed tomography based simulator. 
24.10 
Quality Assurance for Image Guided Radiation Therapy 
24.10.1 Quality assurance for a radiographic/fluoroscopic IGRT system shall be performed by or under 
the direct supervision of a Registered Medical Physicist, and shall include acceptance testing and 
periodic verification of system performance in accordance with manufacturer’s specifications and 
the AAPM Task Group 179 report unless the Registered Medical Physicist determines, and 
documents in writing, that a particular recommendation of these reports is not warranted for the 
clinical tasks for which the equipment will be used.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
36 
24.11 
Possession of Survey Instrument(s). 
24.11.1 Each facility location authorized to use a therapeutic radiation machine in accordance with 24.7 or 
24.8 shall possess appropriately calibrated portable radiation monitoring equipment, including: 
24.11.1.1 
At least one portable radiation measurement survey instrument that is: 
(1) 
Capable of measuring dose rates over the range 10 µSv (1 mrem) per hour to 10 
mSv (1000 mrem) per hour; 
(2) 
Operable; and 
(3) 
Calibrated in accordance with 24.12. 
24.12 
Calibration of Survey Instruments. 
24.12.1 The registrant shall ensure that the survey instruments used to show compliance with this part 
have been calibrated before first use, at intervals not to exceed twenty-four (24) months, and 
following repair. 
24.12.2 To satisfy the requirements of 24.12.1, the registrant shall: 
24.12.2.1 
Calibrate all required scale readings up to 10 mSv (1000 mrem) per hour with an 
appropriate radiation source that is traceable to the National Institute of Standards and 
Technology (NIST); and 
24.12.2.2 
Calibrate at least two (2) points, at approximately 1/3 and 2/3 of full-scale, on 
each scale to be calibrated; and 
24.12.3 To satisfy the requirements of 24.12.2, the registrant shall: 
24.12.3.1 
Consider a point as calibrated if the indicated dose rate differs from the 
calculated dose rate by not more than ten (10) percent; or 
24.12.3.2 
Consider a point as calibrated if the indicated dose rate differs from the 
calculated dose rate by not more than twenty (20) percent if a correction factor or graph 
is conspicuously attached to the instrument. 
24.12.4 The registrant may obtain the services of individuals licensed by the Department, NRC, an 
Agreement State, or a Licensing State to perform calibrations of survey instruments. 
24.12.5 The registrant shall retain a record of each calibration required in 24.12.1 for three (3) years. The 
record shall include: 
24.12.5.1 
A description of the calibration procedure; 
24.12.5.2 
A description of the source used; 
24.12.5.3 
The certified dose rates from the source; 
24.12.5.4 
The rates indicated by the instrument being calibrated; 
24.12.5.5 
The correction factors deduced from the calibration data; 
24.12.5.6 
The signature of the individual who performed the calibration; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
37 
24.12.5.7 
The date of calibration. 
24.13 
Electronic Brachytherapy. 
24.13.1 Electronic brachytherapy devices shall be subject to the requirements of 24.13, and shall be 
exempt for the requirements of 24.7. 
24.13.1.1 
An electronic brachytherapy device that does not meet the requirements of 24.13 
shall not be used for irradiation of patients; and 
24.13.1.2 
An electronic brachytherapy device shall only be utilized for human use 
applications specifically approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) 
unless participating in a research study approved by the registrant’s Institutional Review 
Board (IRB). 
24.13.2 Each facility location authorized to use an electronic brachytherapy device in accordance with 
24.13 shall possess portable radiation monitoring equipment in accord with 24.11 that is operable 
and calibrated in accordance with 24.12 for the applicable electronic brachytherapy source 
energy. 
24.13.3 In addition to shielding adequate to meet requirements of 24.4.5, the treatment room shall meet 
the following design requirements: 
24.13.3.1 
If applicable, provision shall be made to prevent simultaneous operation of more 
than one therapeutic radiation machine in a treatment room. 
24.13.3.2 
Access to the treatment room shall be controlled by a door at each entrance. 
24.13.3.3 
Each treatment room shall have provisions to permit continuous aural 
communication and visual observation of the human patient from the treatment control 
panel during irradiation. The electronic brachytherapy device shall not be used for human 
patient irradiation unless the patient can be observed. 
24.13.3.4 
For electronic brachytherapy devices capable of operating below 50 kV, radiation 
shielding for the staff in the treatment room shall be available, either as a portable shield 
and/or as localized shielded material around the treatment site. 
24.13.3.5 
For electronic brachytherapy devices capable of operating at greater than 150 
kV: 
(1) 
The control panel shall be located outside the treatment room; and 
(2) 
Electrical interlocks shall be provided for all door(s) to the treatment room that 
will: 
(a) 
Prevent the operator from initiating the treatment cycle unless each 
treatment room entrance door is closed; 
(b) 
Cause the source to be shielded when an entrance door is opened; and 
(c) 
Prevent the source from being exposed following an interlock interruption 
until all treatment room entrance doors are closed and the source on-off 
control is reset at the console.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
38 
24.13.4 Electrical Safety for Electronic Brachytherapy Devices. 
24.13.4.1 
The high voltage transformer shall be electrically isolated to prevent electrical 
and magnetic interference with the surrounding environment and ancillary equipment. 
24.13.4.2 
The high voltage transformer shall be isolated from personnel (e.g., operator) 
and the environment by a protective housing that can only be accessed through a cover 
requiring a tool for access or with electrical interlocks to prevent operation while open. 
24.13.4.3 
The high voltage transformer shall have appropriate safety labels warning 
personnel of potential electrical shock and/or heat related injuries. 
24.13.4.4 
Equipment manufactured after shall be in compliance with the most current 
revision of the following International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) Documents: 
(1) 
IEC 60601-1:1998+A1+A2:1995; 
(2) 
IEC 60601-1-2:2001; 
(3) 
IEC 60601-2-8:1999; and 
(4) 
IEC 60601-2-17:2004. 
24.13.5 The control panel, in addition to the displays required by other provisions in 24.13, shall: 
24.13.5.1 
Provide an indication of whether electrical power is available at the control panel 
and if activation of the electronic brachytherapy source is possible; 
24.13.5.2 
Provide an indication of whether x rays are being produced; 
24.13.5.3 
Provide a means for indicating electronic brachytherapy source potential and 
current; 
24.13.5.4 
Provide the means for terminating an exposure at any time; and 
24.13.5.5 
Include an access control (locking) device that will prevent unauthorized use of 
the electronic brachytherapy device. 
24.13.6 A suitable irradiation control device (timer) shall be provided to terminate the irradiation after a 
pre-set time interval or integrated charge on a dosimeter-based monitor. 
24.13.6.1 
A timer shall be provided at the treatment control panel and shall indicate 
planned setting and the time elapsed or remaining; 
24.13.6.2 
The timer shall not permit an exposure if set at zero; 
24.13.6.3 
The timer shall be a cumulative device that activates with an indication of 
"BEAM-ON" and retains its reading after irradiation is interrupted or terminated. After 
irradiation is terminated and before irradiation can be reinitiated, it shall be necessary to 
reset the elapsed time indicator; 
24.13.6.4 
The timer shall terminate irradiation when a pre-selected time has elapsed, if any 
dose monitoring system has not previously terminated irradiation. 
24.13.6.5 
The timer shall permit setting of exposure times as short as 0.1 second; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
39 
24.13.6.6 
The timer shall be accurate to within one (1) percent of the selected value or 0.1 
second, whichever is greater. 
24.13.7 Registered Medical Physicist Support. 
24.13.7.1 
In each facility having an electronic brachytherapy device, a Registered Medical 
Physicist shall be responsible for: 
(1) 
Evaluation of the output from the electronic brachytherapy source; 
(2) 
Generation of the necessary dosimetric information; 
(3) 
Supervision and review of treatment calculations prior to initial treatment of any 
treatment site; 
(4) 
Establishing the periodic and day-of-use quality assurance checks and reviewing 
the data from those checks as required in 24.13.11; 
(5) 
Consultation with the authorized user in treatment planning, as needed; and 
(6) 
Performing calculations/assessments regarding patient treatments that may 
constitute a reportable medical event as provided in 24.6.3. 
24.13.7.2 
The operating procedures required by 24.13.8 shall specify how the Registered 
Medical Physicist is to be contacted for problems or emergencies, as well as the specific 
actions, if any, to be taken until the Registered Medical Physicist is contacted. 
24.13.8 Operating Procedures. 
24.13.8.1 
Only individuals approved by the authorized user, Radiation Safety Officer, or 
Registered Medical Physicist shall be present in the treatment room during treatment; 
24.13.8.2 
Electronic brachytherapy devices shall not be made available for medical use 
unless the requirements of 24.4.1, 24.13.9 and 24.13.10 have been met; 
24.13.8.3 
The electronic brachytherapy device shall be inoperable, either by hardware or 
password, when unattended by qualified staff or service personnel; 
24.13.8.4 
During operation, the electronic brachytherapy device operator shall monitor the 
position of all persons in the treatment room, and all persons entering the treatment 
room, to prevent entering persons from unshielded exposure from the treatment beam; 
(1) 
The electronic brachytherapy device shall not be used for human patient 
irradiation unless the patient can be observed as provided in 24.13.3.3. 
24.13.8.5 
If a patient must be held in position during treatment, mechanical supporting or 
restraining devices shall be used; 
24.13.8.6 
Written procedures shall be developed, implemented, and maintained for 
responding to an abnormal situation, including: 
(1) 
Instructions for responding to equipment failures and the names of the individuals 
responsible for implementing corrective actions; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
40 
(2) 
The names and telephone numbers of the authorized users, the Registered 
Medical Physicist, and the Radiation Safety Officer to be contacted if the device 
or console operates abnormally. 
24.13.8.7 
A copy of the current operating and emergency procedures shall be physically 
located at the electronic brachytherapy device control console; 
(1) 
If the control console is integral to the electronic brachytherapy device, the 
required procedures shall be kept where the operator is located during device 
operation; 
24.13.8.8 
Instructions shall be posted at the electronic brachytherapy device control 
console to inform the operator of the names and telephone numbers of the authorized 
users, the Registered Medical Physicist, and the Radiation Safety Officer to be contacted 
if the device or console operates abnormally; 
(1) 
If the control console is integral to the electronic brachytherapy device, the 
required procedures shall be kept where the operator is located during device 
operation; and 
24.13.8.9 
If the patient has a medical emergency, suffers injury or dies, the Radiation 
Safety Officer, or RSO’s designee, and an authorized user shall be notified as soon as 
possible but no later than 48 hours after the event. 
24.13.9 Safety Precautions for Electronic Brachytherapy Devices. 
24.13.9.1 
A Registered Medical Physicist shall determine which persons in the treatment 
room require monitoring when the beam is energized; 
24.13.9.2 
An authorized user and a Registered Medical Physicist shall be physically 
present during the initiation of all human patient treatments involving the electronic 
brachytherapy device; 
24.13.9.3 
A Registered Medical Physicist and either an authorized user or a physician or 
electronic brachytherapy device operator, under the personal supervision of an 
authorized user, who has been trained in the operation and emergency response for the 
electronic brachytherapy device, shall be physically present during continuation of all 
human patient treatments involving the electronic brachytherapy device; 
24.13.9.4 
When shielding is required by 24.13.3.4, the electronic brachytherapy device 
operator shall use a survey meter to verify proper placement of the shielding immediately 
upon initiation of treatment. Alternatively, a Registered Medical Physicist shall designate 
shield locations sufficient to meet the requirements of Part 4 of these regulations for any 
individual, other than the patient, in the treatment room; and 
24.13.9.5 
All personnel in the treatment room are required to remain behind shielding 
during treatment. A Registered Medical Physicist shall approve any deviation from this 
requirement and shall designate alternative radiation safety protocols, compatible with 
patient safety, to provide an equivalent degree of protection. 
24.13.10 
Electronic Brachytherapy Source Calibration Measurements. 
24.13.10.1 
Calibration of the electronic brachytherapy source output for an electronic 
brachytherapy device subject to 24.13 shall be performed by, or under the direct 
supervision of, a Registered Medical Physicist;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
41 
24.13.10.2 
Calibration of the electronic brachytherapy source output shall be made for each 
electronic brachytherapy source, or after any repair affecting the x-ray beam generation, 
or when indicated by the electronic brachytherapy source quality assurance checks; 
24.13.10.3 
Calibration of the electronic brachytherapy source output shall utilize a dosimetry 
system described in 24.4.3. 
24.13.10.4 
Calibration of the electronic brachytherapy source output shall include, as 
applicable, determination of: 
(1) 
The output within two percent (2%) of the expected value, if applicable, or 
determination of the output if there is no expected value; 
(2) 
Timer accuracy and linearity over the typical range of use; 
(3) 
Proper operation of back-up exposure control devices; 
(4) 
Evaluation that the relative dose distribution about the source is within five 
percent (5%) of that expected; and 
(5) 
Source positioning accuracy to within one (1) millimeter within the applicator; 
24.13.10.5 
Calibration of the x-ray source output required by 24.13.10.1 through 24.13.10.4 
shall be in accordance with current published recommendations from a recognized 
national professional association with expertise in electronic brachytherapy (when 
available). In the absence of a calibration protocol published by a national professional 
association, the manufacturer’s calibration protocol shall be followed. 
24.13.10.6 
The registrant shall maintain a record of each calibration in an auditable form for 
the duration of the registration, including the: 
(1) 
Date of the calibration; 
(2) 
Manufacturer's name, model number and serial number for the electronic 
brachytherapy device; 
(3) 
Unique identifier for the corresponding electronic brachytherapy source; 
(4) 
Model numbers and serial numbers of the instrument(s) used to calibrate the 
electronic brachytherapy device; and 
(5) 
Name and signature of the Registered Medical Physicist responsible for 
performing the calibration. 
24.13.11 
Periodic and Day-of-Use Quality Assurance Checks for Electronic Brachytherapy 
Devices. 
24.13.11.1 
Quality assurance checks shall be performed on each electronic brachytherapy 
device subject to 24.13: 
(1) 
At the beginning of each day of use; 
(2) 
Each time the device is moved to a new room or site; and 
(3) 
After each x-ray tube installation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
42 
24.13.11.2 
The registrant shall perform periodic quality assurance checks required by 
24.13.11.1 in accordance with procedures established by the Registered Medical 
Physicist; 
24.13.11.3 
To satisfy the requirements of 24.13.11.1, radiation output quality assurance 
checks shall include as a minimum: 
(1) 
Verification that output of the electronic brachytherapy source falls within three 
percent (3%) of expected values, as appropriate for the device, as determined 
by: 
(a) 
Output as a function of time, or 
(b) 
Output as a function of setting on a monitor chamber. 
(2) 
Verification of the consistency of the dose distribution to within three percent 
(3%) of that found during calibration required by 24.13.10.; and 
(3) 
Validation of the operation of positioning methods to ensure that the treatment 
dose exposes the intended location within one (1) mm; and 
24.13.11.4 
The registrant shall use a dosimetry system that meets the requirements of 
24.4.3 to make the quality assurance checks required in 24.13.11.3. 
24.13.11.5 
The registrant shall review the results of each radiation output quality assurance 
check according to the following procedures: 
(1) 
An authorized user and Registered Medical Physicist shall be immediately 
notified if any parameter is not within its acceptable tolerance. The electronic 
brachytherapy device shall not be made available for subsequent medical use 
until the Registered Medical Physicist has determined that all parameters are 
within their acceptable tolerances; 
(2) 
If all radiation output quality assurance check parameters appear to be within 
their acceptable range, the quality assurance check shall be reviewed and signed 
by either the authorized user or Registered Medical Physicist within two (2) days; 
and 
(3) 
The Registered Medical Physicist shall review and sign the results of each 
radiation output quality assurance check at intervals not to exceed thirty (30) 
days. 
24.13.11.6 
To satisfy the requirements of 24.13.11.1 safety device quality assurance checks 
shall, at a minimum, assure: 
(1) 
Proper operation of radiation exposure indicator lights on the electronic 
brachytherapy device and on the control console; 
(2) 
Proper operation of viewing and intercom systems in each electronic 
brachytherapy facility, if applicable; 
(3) 
Proper operation of radiation monitors, if applicable; 
(4) 
The integrity of all cables, catheters or parts of the device that carry high 
voltages; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
43 
(5) 
Connecting guide tubes, transfer tubes, transfer-tube-applicator interfaces, and 
treatment spacers are free from any defects that interfere with proper operation. 
24.13.11.7 
If the results of the safety device quality assurance checks required in 24.13.11.6 
indicate the malfunction of any system, a registrant shall secure the control console in the 
OFF position and not use the electronic brachytherapy device except as may be 
necessary to repair, replace, or check the malfunctioning system. 
24.13.11.8 
The registrant shall maintain a record of each quality assurance check required 
by 24.13.11.3 and 24.13.11.7 in an auditable form for three (3) years. 
(1) 
The record shall include the date of the quality assurance check; the 
manufacturer's name, model number and serial number for the electronic 
brachytherapy device; the name and signature of the individual who performed 
the periodic quality assurance check and the name and signature of the 
Registered Medical Physicist who reviewed the quality assurance check; 
(2) 
For radiation output quality assurance checks required by 24.13.11.3, the record 
shall also include the unique identifier for the electronic brachytherapy source 
and the manufacturer's name; model number and serial number for the 
instrument(s) used to measure the radiation output of the electronic 
brachytherapy device. 
24.13.12 
Acceptance Testing For Electronic Brachytherapy. 
24.13.12.1 
The registrant shall perform acceptance testing on the treatment planning system 
of electronic brachytherapy-related computer systems in accordance with current 
published recommendations from a recognized national professional association with 
expertise in electronic brachytherapy (when available). 
(1) 
In the absence of an acceptance testing protocol published by a national 
professional association, the manufacturer’s acceptance testing protocol shall be 
followed. 
24.13.12.2 
Acceptance testing shall be performed by, or under the direct supervision of, a 
Registered Medical Physicist and shall include at a minimum, as applicable, verification 
of: 
(1) 
The source-specific input parameters required by the dose calculation algorithm; 
(2) 
The accuracy of dose, dwell time, and treatment time calculations at 
representative points; 
(3) 
The accuracy of isodose plots and graphic displays; 
(4) 
The accuracy of the software used to determine radiation source positions from 
radiographic images; and 
(5) 
The accuracy of electronic transfer of the treatment delivery parameters to the 
treatment delivery unit from the treatment planning system, if the treatment-
planning system is different from the treatment-delivery system.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
44 
24.13.12.3 
The position indicators in the applicator shall be compared to the actual position 
of the source or planned dwell positions, as appropriate, at the time of commissioning. 
24.13.12.4 
Prior to each patient treatment regimen, the parameters for the treatment shall be 
evaluated and approved by the authorized user and the Registered Medical Physicist for 
correctness through means independent of that used for the determination of the 
parameters. 
24.13.13 
Mobile Electronic Brachytherapy. 
24.13.13.1 
A registrant providing mobile electronic brachytherapy service shall, as a 
minimum: 
(1) 
Check all survey instruments before medical use at each address of use or on 
each day of use, whichever is more restrictive. 
(2) 
Account for the electronic brachytherapy source in the electronic brachytherapy 
device before departure from the client’s address. 
(3) 
Perform, at each location on each day of use, all of the required quality 
assurance checks specified in 24.13.11 to assure proper operation of the device. 
24.13.14 
Training. 
24.13.14.1 
A registrant shall provide instruction, initially and at least annually, to all 
individuals who operate the electronic brachytherapy device, as appropriate to the 
individual's assigned duties, in the operating procedures identified in 24.13.8. If the 
interval between patients exceeds one year, retraining of the individuals shall be 
provided. 
24.13.14.2. 
In addition to the requirements of 24.3.3 for therapeutic radiation machine 
authorized users and 24.3.4 for Registered Medical Physicists, these individuals shall 
also receive device-specific instruction initially from the manufacturer, and annually from 
either the manufacturer or other qualified trainer. The training shall be of a duration 
recommended by a recognized national professional association with expertise in 
electronic brachytherapy (when available). In the absence of any training protocol 
recommended by a national professional association, the manufacturer’s training protocol 
shall be followed. The training shall include, but not be limited to: 
(1) 
Device-specific radiation safety requirements; 
(2) 
Device operation; 
(3) 
Clinical use for the types of use approved by the FDA; 
(4) 
Emergency procedures, including an emergency drill; and 
(5) 
The registrant’s Quality Assurance Program. 
24.13.14.3. 
A registrant shall retain a record of individuals receiving instruction required by 
24.13.14 for three (3) years. The record shall include a list of the topics covered, the date 
of the instruction, the name(s) of the attendee(s), and the name(s) of the individual(s) 
who provided the instruction.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
45 
24.14 
Stereotactic Radiosurgery/Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy 
24.14.1. 
In addition to the requirements in Section 24.3, 24.4, 24.5, 24.6 and 24.8, registrants 
performing stereotactic radiosurgery or stereotactic body radiotherapy, shall follow the safety and 
quality assurance guidelines set forth in AAPM Task Group 101 Report and, the American 
Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) report on "Quality and Safety Considerations in 
Stereotactic Radiosurgery and Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy" (August, 2011) unless the 
Registered Medical Physicist determines that a particular recommendation of these reports is not 
warranted. 
24.14.1.1 
Deviations from the recommended acceptance, commissioning, or quality 
assurance criteria must be documented by the Registered Medical Physicist. 
24.14.2 Supervision of SRS/SBRT Procedures 
24.14.2.1 
SRS/SBRT procedures shall be directly supervised by the Authorized User and 
the Registered Medical Physicist. 
24.14.2.2 
The initiation of the first fraction delivered in an SRS/SBRT procedure shall be 
personally supervised by the Authorized User or the Registered Medical Physicist. 
24.15 
Other Use of Electronically-Produced Radiation to Deliver Therapeutic Radiation Dosage. 
24.15.1. 
A person shall not utilize any device which is designed to electrically generate a source of 
ionizing radiation to deliver therapeutic radiation dosage, and which is not appropriately regulated 
under any existing category of therapeutic radiation machine, until: 
24.15.1.1. 
The applicant or registrant has, at a minimum, provided the Department with: 
(1) 
A detailed description of the device and its intended application(s); 
(2) 
Facility design requirements, including shielding and access control; 
(3) 
Documentation of appropriate training for authorized user physician(s) and 
registered medical physicist(s) 
(4) 
Methodology for measurement of dosages to be administered to patients or 
human research subjects; 
(5) 
Documentation regarding calibration, maintenance, and repair of the device, as 
well as instruments and equipment necessary for radiation safety 
(6) 
Radiation safety precautions and instructions; and 
(7) 
Other information requested by the Department in its review of the application; 
and 
24.15.1.2 
The applicant or registrant has received written approval from the Department to 
utilize the device in accordance with the regulations and specific conditions the 
Department considers necessary for the medical use of the device.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
46 
PART 24, APPENDIX 24A: 
INFORMATION ON RADIATION SHIELDING REQUIRED FOR PLAN REVIEWS 
24A.1 All Therapeutic Radiation Machines. 
24A.1.1 Basic facility information including: name, telephone number and facility registration number; 
registration number of the individual preparing the shielding plan; name and telephone number of 
the facility supervisor; and the street address [including room number] of the therapeutic radiation 
machine facility. The plan should also indicate whether this is a new structure or a modification to 
existing structure(s). 
24A.1.2 All wall, floor, and ceiling areas struck by the useful beam shall have primary barriers. 
24A.1.3 Secondary barriers shall be provided in all wall, floor, and ceiling areas not having primary 
barriers. 
24A.2 Therapeutic Radiation Machines Up To 150 kV (photons only). 
In addition to the requirements listed in 24A.1 above, therapeutic radiation machine facilities which 
produce only photons with a maximum energy less than or equal to 150 kV shall develop, document, and 
maintain on file, shielding plans which contain, as a minimum, the following additional information: 
24A.2.1 Equipment specifications, including the manufacturer and model number of the therapeutic 
radiation machine, as well as the maximum technique factors; 
24A.2.2 Maximum design workload for the facility including total weekly radiation output, expressed in 
gray (rad) or air kerma at one meter, total beam-on time or monitor units (MU) per day or week, 
the average treatment time or monitor units (MU) per patient, along with the anticipated number 
of patients to be treated per day or week; 
24A.2.3 A facility drawing to scale indicating: the direction of North; normal location of the therapeutic 
radiation machine's radiation port(s); each port's travel and traverse limits; general direction(s) of 
the useful beam; locations of any windows and doors; and the location of the therapeutic radiation 
machine control panel. If the control panel is located inside the therapeutic radiation machine 
treatment room, the location of the operator's booth shall be noted on the plan and the operator's 
station at the control panel shall be behind a protective barrier sufficient to ensure compliance 
with 4.6; 
24A.2.4 The structural composition and thickness or lead/concrete equivalent of all walls, doors, 
partitions, floor, and ceiling of the room(s) concerned; 
24A.2.5 The type of occupancy of all adjacent areas inclusive of space above and below the room(s) 
concerned. If there is an exterior wall, show distance to the closest area(s) where it is likely that 
individuals may be present; and 
24A.2.6 At least one example calculation which shows the methodology used to determine the amount of 
shielding required for each physical condition (i.e.: primary and secondary/leakage barriers, 
restricted and unrestricted areas, entry doors) and shielding material in the facility: 
(1) 
If commercial software is used to generate shielding requirements, the software used and 
the version/ revision date shall be identified; or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
47 
(2) 
If the software used to generate shielding requirements is not in the open literature or 
commercially available, quality control sample calculations to verify the result obtained 
with the software shall be identified. 
24A.3 Therapeutic Radiation Machines Over 150 kV. 
In addition to the requirements listed in 24A.1 above, therapeutic radiation machine facilities that produce 
photons with a maximum energy in excess of 150 kV and/or electrons shall develop, document, and 
maintain on file, shielding plans which contain, as a minimum, the following additional information: 
24A.3.1 Equipment specifications including the manufacturer and model number of the therapeutic 
radiation machine, and gray (rad) at the isocenter and the energy(s) and type(s) of radiation 
produced (photon, electron). The target to isocenter distance shall be specified; 
24A.3.2 Maximum design workload for the facility including total weekly radiation output (expressed in 
gray (rad) at one meter), total beam-on time per day or week, the average treatment time per 
patient, along with the anticipated number of patients to be treated per day or week; 
24A.3.3 Facility drawing to scale [including both floor plan and elevation views] indicating relative 
orientation of the therapeutic radiation machine, type(s), thickness and minimum density of 
shielding material(s), direction of North, the locations and size of all penetrations through each 
shielding barrier (ceiling, walls and floor), as well as details of the door(s) and maze; 
24A.3.4 The structural composition and thickness or concrete equivalent of all walls, doors, partitions, 
floor, and ceiling of the room(s) concerned; 
24A.3.5 The type of occupancy of all adjacent areas inclusive of space above and below the room(s) 
concerned. If there is an exterior wall, show distance to the closest area(s) where it is likely that 
individuals may be present; 
24A.3.6 A description of all assumptions that were in shielding calculations including, but not limited to, 
design energy [i.e. a room may be designed for a 6 MV unit although only a 4 MV unit is currently 
proposed], work-load, presence of integral beam-stop in unit, occupancy and use(s) of adjacent 
areas, fraction of time that the useful beam will intercept each permanent barrier [walls, floor and 
ceiling] and the radiation exposure in both restricted and unrestricted areas; and 
24A.3.7 At least one example calculation which shows the methodology used to determine the amount of 
shielding required for each physical condition (i.e.: primary and secondary/leakage barriers, 
restricted and unrestricted areas, small angle scatter, entry door(s) and maze) and shielding 
material in the facility: 
(1) 
If commercial software is used to generate shielding requirements, identify the software 
used and the version/ revision date; or 
(2) 
If the software used to generate shielding requirements is not in the open literature or 
commercially available, submit quality control sample calculations to verify the result 
obtained with the software.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-1 Part 24 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
48 
24A.4 Neutron Shielding 
In addition to the requirements listed in 24A.3 above, therapeutic radiation machine facilities that are 
capable of operating above 10 MV shall document, develop, and maintain on file, shielding plans which 
contain, as a minimum, the following additional information: 
24A.4.1 The structural composition, thickness, minimum density and location of all neutron shielding 
material; 
24A.4.2 Description of all assumptions that were used in neutron shielding calculations including, but not 
limited to, neutron spectra as a function of energy, neutron fluence rate, absorbed dose and dose 
equivalent (due to neutrons) in both restricted and unrestricted areas; 
24A.4.3 At least one example calculation which shows the methodology used to determine the amount of 
neutron shielding required for each physical condition (i.e.: restricted and unrestricted areas, 
entry door(s) and maze) and neutron shielding material utilized in the facility: 
(1) 
If commercial software is used to generate shielding requirements, also identify the 
software used and the version/ revision date; or 
(2) 
If the software used to generate shielding requirements is not in the open literature or 
commercially available, submit quality control sample calculations to verify the result 
obtained with the software; and 
24A.4.4 The method(s) and instrumentation that will be used to verify the adequacy of all neutron 
shielding installed in the facility. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
6 CCR 1007-1 has been divided into separate parts for ease of use. Versions prior to 04/01/2007 are 
located in the first section, 6 CCR 1007-1. Prior versions can be accessed from the All Versions list on the 
rule’s current version page. To view versions effective on or after 04/01/2007, select the desired part of 
the rule, for example 6 CCR 1007-1 Part 01 or 6 CCR 1007-1 Part 10. 
History 
Part 24 entire rule eff. 07/01/2010. 
Part 24, Appendix 24A eff. 01/14/2014.
