---
id: "6_CCR_1011-1"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "6 CCR 1011-1"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12016&fileName=6%20CCR%201011-1%20Chapter%2026&type=pdf"
---

#### 6_CCR_1011-1. 6 CCR 1011-1

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
STANDARDS FOR HOSPITALS AND HEALTH FACILITIES 
CHAPTER 26 - HOME CARE AGENCIES 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Adopted by the Board of Health on April 16, 2025. Effective July 1, 2025. 
INDEX 
Part 1 – Statutory Authority and Applicability 
Part 2 – Definitions 
Part 3 – Placement Agencies 
Part 4 – Department Oversight 
Part 5 – General Requirements for all License Categories 
Part 6 – Skilled Care 
Part 7 – Non-Medical/Personal Care 
PART 1. 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND APPLICABILITY 
1.1 
Statutory Authority 
The statutory authority for the promulgation of these rules is set forth in Sections 25-1.5-103 and 25-27.5-
101, et seq., C.R.S. 
1.2 
Applicability 
(A) 
A home care agency, as defined herein, shall comply with all applicable federal, state, 
and local laws and regulations, including but not limited to, the following: 
(1) 
This Chapter 26 as it applies to the type of services provided. 
(2) 
6 CCR 1011-1, Chapter 2, General Licensure Standards, unless otherwise 
modified herein. 
(B) 
Contracted services performed on behalf of the home care agency shall meet the 
standards established herein. 
PART 2. 
DEFINITIONS 
2.1 
“Authorized representative” means an individual responsible for the private payment of home care 
services or an individual who possesses written authorization from the consumer to represent 
their interests regarding care, treatment, and services provided by the home care agency. The 
authorized representative shall not be the home care consumer’s service provider except as 
allowed by state Medicaid programs. 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
2 
2.2 
“Branch office” means a location or site from which a home care agency provides services within 
a portion of the total geographic area served by the parent agency. The branch office is part of 
the home care agency and is located close to share administration, supervision, personnel, and 
services in a manner that renders it unnecessary for the branch to independently meet the 
requirements of this chapter. 
2.3 
“Bylaws” means a set of rules adopted by a home care agency for governing the agency’s 
operation. For purposes of this Chapter 26, “governing documents” is synonymous with “bylaws”. 
2.4 
“Certified home care agency” means an agency that is certified by either the federal Centers for 
Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) or the state Department of Health Care Policy and 
Financing (HCPF) to provide skilled home health or personal care services. 
2.5 
“Clinical note” means a written notation of a healthcare contact with a consumer that is signed, 
with date and time, by personnel of the home care agency that describes signs and symptoms; 
treatment; education; drugs administered and the consumer’s reaction; and any changes in 
physical or emotional condition. 
2.6 
“Community Centered Board” means a community-centered board, as defined in Section 25.5-10-
202, C.R.S., that is designated pursuant to Section 25.5-10-209, C.R.S., by the Department of 
Health Care Policy and Financing. 
2.7 
“Department” means the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment. 
2.8 
“Geographic area” means an area of land for which the agency shall be licensed surrounding the 
home care agency’s primary location. There is no restriction as to the number of agencies that 
may provide services in a particular geographic area. 
2.9 
“Governing body” means the board of trustees, directors, or other governing entity in whom the 
ultimate authority and responsibility for the conduct of the home care agency is vested. 
2.10 
“Home care agency” means any sole proprietorship, partnership, association, corporation, 
government, or governmental subdivision or agency subject to the restrictions in Section 25-1.5-
103(1)(a)(II), C.R.S., not-for-profit agency, or any other legal or commercial entity that manages 
and offers, directly or by contract, skilled home health services or personal care services to a 
home care consumer in the home care consumer’s temporary or permanent home or place of 
residence. Home care agency is also referred to in this chapter as “HCA” or “agency.” 
(A) 
A residential facility that delivers skilled home health or personal care services that the 
facility is not licensed to otherwise provide shall either be licensed as a home care 
agency or require the skilled home health or personal care services to be delivered by a 
licensed home care agency. 
(B) 
“Home care agency” does not include: 
(1) 
Organizations that provide only housekeeping services; 
(2) 
Community and rural health networks that furnish home visits for the purpose of 
public health monitoring and disease tracking; 
(3) 
An individual who is not employed by or affiliated with a home care agency and 
who acts alone, without employees or contractors;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
3 
(4) 
Outpatient rehabilitation agencies and comprehensive outpatient rehabilitation 
facilities certified pursuant to Title 18 or 19 of the “Social Security Act,” as 
amended; 
(5) 
Consumer-directed attendant programs administered by the Colorado 
Department of Health Care Policy and Financing; 
(6) 
Licensed dialysis centers that provide in-home dialysis services, supplies, and 
equipment; 
(7) 
Subject to the requirements of Section 25-27.5-103(3), C.R.S., a facility 
otherwise licensed by the Department; 
(8) 
A home care placement agency as defined in this part; 
(9) 
Services provided by a qualified early intervention service provider and overseen 
jointly by the Department of Education and the Department of Human Services; 
or 
(10) 
A program of all-inclusive care for the elderly (PACE), established in Section 
25.5-5-412, C.R.S., and regulated by the Department of Health Care Policy and 
Financing and the CMS, except that PACE home care services are subject to 
regulation in accordance with Section 25-27.5-104(4). 
2.11 
“Home care consumer” means a person who receives skilled home health services or personal 
care services in their temporary or permanent home or place of residence from a home care 
agency or from a provider referred by a home care placement agency. A home care consumer is 
also referred to in this chapter as “consumer”. 
2.12 
“Home care placement agency” means an organization that, for a fee, provides only referrals of 
providers to home care consumers seeking services. A home care placement agency does not 
provide skilled home health services or personal care services, directly or by contract, to a home 
care consumer in the home care consumer’s temporary or permanent home or place of 
residence. Such organizations shall follow the requirements of Section 25-27.5-101, et seq., 
C.R.S., that pertain to home care placement agencies and Part 3 of this chapter. 
2.13 
“Informal caregiver” means a person who provides care to the consumer without payment and 
who is not an employee of the agency. 
2.14 
“Licensed independent practitioner” means an individual permitted by law and the HCA to 
independently diagnose, initiate, alter, or terminate health care treatment within the scope of their 
license, and includes Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRN) and Physician Assistants. 
2.15 
“Manager” or “administrator” means any person who is responsible for and supervises or offers or 
attempts to oversee and supervise the day-to-day operations of a home care agency or home 
care placement agency. 
2.16 
“Nurse aide” means a nurse aide certified by the Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies 
(DORA) or a nurse aide who has completed the requisite training and is within four (4) months of 
achieving certification. 
2.17 
“Owner” means a shareholder in a for-profit or nonprofit corporation, a partner in a partnership or 
limited partnership, a member in a limited liability company, a sole proprietor, or a person with a 
similar interest in an entity, who has at least a fifty-percent (50%) ownership interest in the 
business entity.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
4 
2.18 
“PACE home care services” means skilled home health services or personal care services: 
(A) 
Offered as part of a comprehensive set of medical and nonmedical benefits, including 
primary care, day services, and interdisciplinary team care planning and management by 
PACE providers to an enrolled participant in the program of all-inclusive care for the 
elderly established in Section 25.5-5-412, C.R.S. and regulated by the Department of 
Health Care Policy and Financing and the CMS; and 
(B) 
Provided in the enrolled participant’s temporary or permanent place of residence. 
2.19 
“Parent agency” means the agency that develops and maintains administrative control of branch 
offices. 
2.20 
“Personal care services” means assistance with activities of daily living, including but not limited 
to: bathing, dressing, eating, transferring, walking or mobility, toileting, continence care, 
housekeeping, personal laundry, medication reminders, and companionship services, furnished 
to a home care consumer in the home care consumer's temporary or permanent home or place of 
residence, and those normal daily routines that the home care consumer could perform for 
themselves were they physically capable, which are intended to enable that individual to remain 
safely and comfortably in the home care consumer's temporary or permanent home or place of 
residence. 
2.21 
“Personnel” means individuals employed by and/or providing services under the direction of the 
HCA, including but not limited to: managers, administrators, staff, employees, contractors, 
students, interns, or volunteers. 
2.22 
“Plan of care” means a plan developed in consultation with the licensed independent practitioner 
and agency staff that covers all pertinent diagnoses, including mental status, types of services 
and equipment required, frequency of visits, prognosis, rehabilitation potential, functional 
limitations, activities permitted, instructions for timely discharge or referral, and any other 
appropriate items. 
2.23 
“Plan of correction” means a written plan prepared by the home care agency or home care 
placement agency and submitted to the Department for approval that specifies the measures the 
agency shall take to correct all cited deficiencies. 
2.24 
“Pseudo-patient” means a person trained to participate in a role-play situation or a computer-
based mannequin device. A pseudo-patient must be capable of responding to and interacting with 
the nurse aide and must demonstrate the general characteristics of the primary consumer 
population served by the HCA in key areas such as age, frailty, functional status, and cognitive 
status. 
2.25 
“Qualified Early Intervention Service Provider” has the same meaning set forth in Section 27-
10.5-702, C.R.S. 
2.26 
“Respite care” means services provided to a consumer who is unable to care for themselves on a 
short term basis because of the absence or need for relief of those persons normally providing 
care.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
5 
2.27 
“Service Agency” means a service agency, as defined in Section 25.5-10-202, C.R.S., that has 
received certification from the Department of Health Care Policy and Financing as a 
developmental disabilities service agency under rules promulgated by the medical service board 
and is providing services pursuant to the supported living services waiver or the children’s 
extensive service support waiver or the home and community-based services waivers 
administered by the Department of Health Care Policy and Financing under Part 4 of Article 6 of 
Title 25.5, C.R.S. 
2.28 
“Service note” means a written notation that is signed, with date and time, by personnel of the 
home care agency furnishing the non-medical services. 
2.29 
“Skilled home health services” means health and medical services furnished in the consumer's 
temporary or permanent home or place of residence that include: wound care services; use of 
medical supplies including drugs and biologicals prescribed by a physician; in-home infusion 
services; nursing services; certified nurse aide services that require the supervision of a licensed 
or certified health care professional acting within the scope of their license or certificate; 
occupational therapy; physical therapy; respiratory care services; dietetics and nutrition 
counseling services; medication administration; medical social services; and speech-language 
pathology services. “Skilled home health services” does not include the delivery of either durable 
medical equipment or medical supplies. 
2.30 
“Subdivision” means a component of a multi-function health agency, such as the home care 
department of a hospital or the nursing division of a health department, which independently 
meets the licensure requirements for HCAs. A subdivision that has branch offices is considered a 
parent agency. 
2.31 
“Summary report” means the compilation of the pertinent factors of a home care consumer's 
clinical notes that is submitted to the consumer's physician by the skilled home healthcare 
agency. 
2.32 
“Supervision” means authoritative procedural guidance by a qualified person for the 
accomplishment of a function or activity. 
2.33 
“Workstation” means a location separate from the parent agency that operates solely for the 
convenience of direct care staff. Any non-medical, medical, state, or federally certified agency 
may establish a workstation within the agency’s geographic service area. The site may provide a 
place to work so that direct care staff can decrease travel. Consumer charts are not to be kept at 
a workstation, but the site may contain phones, faxes, office supplies, wound care supplies, 
policies, procedures, forms, etc. The workstation shall not be used to accept referrals; conduct 
marketing, administrative activities, or personnel training; or store consumer records. The 
workstation shall not be staffed to serve the public and signage at the workstation shall not be 
posted to invite the public inside to conduct business. 
PART 3. 
PLACEMENT AGENCIES 
3.1 
Registration 
(A) 
It is unlawful for a person to conduct or maintain a home care placement agency without 
a valid, current home care placement agency registration issued by the Department. 
(B) 
A person who violates any part of this section is: 
(1) 
Guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a 
fine of not less than $50, nor more than $500; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
6 
(2) 
May be subject to a civil penalty assessed by the Department of up to $10,000 
for each violation. The penalty shall be assessed, enforced, and collected in 
accordance with Article 4 of Title 24, C.R.S., and any penalties collected by the 
Department shall be transferred to the state treasurer for deposit in the general 
fund. 
3.2 
Criminal History Record Check 
(A) 
The home care placement agency shall require any provider seeking placement to submit 
to a criminal history record check to ascertain whether the provider applying has been 
convicted of a felony or misdemeanor, which felony or misdemeanor involves conduct 
that the agency determines could pose a risk to the health, safety, or welfare of home 
care consumers. 
(B) 
The criminal history record check shall, at a minimum, include a search of criminal history 
in the State of Colorado and be conducted not more than ninety (90) days prior to 
placement of the provider. 
(C) 
The cost of such inquiry shall be paid by either the home care placement agency or the 
individual seeking placement. 
(D) 
In assessing whether to refer a provider with a felony or misdemeanor conviction, the 
home care placement agency shall consider the following factors: 
(1) 
The history of convictions or pleas of guilty or no contest; 
(2) 
The nature and seriousness of the crimes; 
(3) 
The time that has elapsed since the conviction(s); 
(4) 
Whether there are any mitigating circumstances; and 
(5) 
The nature of the position for which the provider would be referred. 
(E) 
The home care placement agency shall develop and implement policies and procedures 
regarding the referral of any provider who is convicted of a felony or misdemeanor to 
ensure that the provider being referred does not pose a risk to the health, safety, and 
welfare of the home care consumer. 
3.3 
Disclosures 
(A) 
The home care placement agency shall provide a written disclosure notice to the home 
care consumer concerning the duties and employment status of the individual(s) 
providing services. 
(B) 
The disclosure notice, in the form and manner prescribed by the Department, shall be 
signed by the consumer or authorized representative before the start of services and 
shall include, at a minimum, the following information: 
(1) 
That the home care placement agency is not the employer of any provider it 
refers to a home care consumer; and 
(2) 
That the home care placement agency does not direct, control, schedule, or train 
any provider it refers.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
7 
(C) 
The home care placement agency shall maintain proof that disclosures have been 
provided before referring a provider to a home care consumer. 
3.4 
Inspections 
(A) 
The Department may inspect, as it deems necessary, a home care placement agency’s 
records on weekdays between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. to ensure that the home care placement 
agency is in compliance with the criminal history record check, general liability insurance, 
and disclosure requirements. 
(1) 
The home care placement agency shall retain its records for a period of seven 
(7) years and those records shall be readily available to the Department during 
inspections. 
(B) 
The Department shall make inspections as it deems necessary to ensure that the health, 
safety, and welfare of a home care placement agency’s home care consumers are being 
protected. Inspections of a home care consumer’s home are subject to the consent of the 
consumer to access the property. 
3.5 
Plan of Correction 
For purposes of this chapter, a plan of correction against a registered home care placement agency shall 
be completed in accordance with 6 CCR 1011-1, Chapter 2, Part 2.10.4(B). 
3.6 
Intermediate Restrictions or Conditions 
(A) 
The Department may impose intermediate restrictions or conditions on a home care 
placement agency that may include at least one of the following: 
(1) 
Retaining a consultant to address corrective measures; 
(2) 
Monitoring by the Department for a specific period; 
(3) 
Providing additional training to personnel, owners, or operators of the home care 
placement agency; 
(4) 
Complying with a directed written plan to correct the violation; or 
(5) 
Paying a civil fine not to exceed $10,000 per calendar year for all violations. 
(B) 
If the Department imposes an intermediate restriction or condition that is not the result of 
a serious and immediate threat to health, safety, or welfare, the Department shall provide 
the home care placement agency with written notice of the restriction or condition. No 
later than ten (10) calendar days after receipt of the notice, the home care placement 
agency shall submit a written plan that includes the time frame for completing the 
directed plan that addresses the restriction or condition specified. 
(C) 
If the Department imposes an intermediate restriction or condition that is the result of a 
serious and immediate threat to health, safety, or welfare, the Department shall notify the 
home care placement agency in writing, by telephone, or in person during an on-site visit. 
(1) 
The home care placement agency shall remedy the circumstances creating the 
harm or potential harm immediately upon receiving notice of the restriction or 
condition.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
8 
(2) 
If the Department provides notice of a restriction or condition by telephone or in 
person, the Department shall send written confirmation of the restriction or 
condition to the home care placement agency within two (2) business days. 
(D) 
After submission of an approved written plan, the home care placement agency may 
appeal any intermediate restriction or condition to the Department through an informal 
review process as specified by the Department. 
(E) 
If the Department imposes an intermediate restriction or condition that requires payment 
of a civil fine, the home care placement agency may request and the Department shall 
grant a stay in payment of the fine until final disposition of the restriction or condition. 
(F) 
If a home care placement agency is not satisfied with the result of the informal review or 
chooses not to seek informal review, no intermediate restriction or condition shall be 
imposed until after the opportunity for a hearing has been afforded the home care 
placement agency pursuant to Section 24-4-105, C.R.S. 
3.7 
Enforcement and Disciplinary Sanctions 
(A) 
For purposes of this chapter, enforcement activities against a registered home care 
placement agency shall comply with 6 CCR 1011-1, Chapter 2, Part 2.11. 
(B) 
If the Department suspends, revokes, or refuses to renew a home care placement 
agency registration, the home care placement agency shall be removed from the registry 
maintained by the Department pursuant to Section 25-27.5-103(2)(a)(I), C.R.S. 
3.8 
Registration Procedure 
(A) 
An applicant for an initial or renewal home care placement agency registration shall 
provide the Department with a complete application including all information and 
attachments specified in the application form and any additional information requested by 
the Department. Each application shall include, at a minimum, the following: 
(1) 
A non-refundable annual registration fee as published in accordance with 6 CCR 
1011-1, Chapter 2, Part 2.12. Registrations will be valid for one year from the 
date of issue. 
(2) 
Evidence of general liability insurance coverage that covers the home care 
placement agency and the providers it refers to home care consumers. Such 
coverage shall be maintained for the duration of the license period. The minimum 
amount of coverage is $100,000 per occurrence and $300,000 aggregate. 
(3) 
The legal name of the entity and all other names used by it to provide home care 
placement services. The applicant has a continuing duty to notify the Department 
of all name changes at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to the effective date of 
the change. 
(4) 
Contact information for the entity including mailing address, telephone and 
facsimile numbers, e-mail address, and website address, as applicable. 
(5) 
The identity of all persons and business entities with a controlling interest in the 
home care placement agency, including administrators, directors, and managers.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
9 
(B) 
With the submission of an application for registration or within ten (10) calendar days 
after a change in the owner, manager, or administrator, each owner, manager or 
administrator of a home care placement agency shall submit a complete set of their 
fingerprints to the Colorado Bureau of Investigation for the purpose of conducting a state 
and national fingerprint-based criminal history record check. 
(1) 
Each owner, manager, or administrator is responsible for paying the fee 
established by the Colorado Bureau of Investigation for conducting the criminal 
history record check. 
(2) 
If the owner, manager, or administrator of the home care placement agency has 
been convicted of a felony or of a misdemeanor which felony or misdemeanor 
involves conduct that the Department determines could pose a risk to the health, 
safety, or welfare of the home care placement agency’s consumers, the 
Department will not approve the application for registration. 
PART 4. 
DEPARTMENT OVERSIGHT 
4.1 
License Classification 
(A) 
An HCA shall be issued a license consistent with the type and extent of services 
provided. Unless otherwise specified, each licensed HCA shall meet the requirements in 
Part 5 of this chapter as well as Parts 6 and/or 7 depending upon the services provided. 
(1) 
Class A – a home care agency that provides any skilled healthcare service. 
Agencies with a Class A license may also provide personal care services. 
(2) 
Class B – a home care agency that provides only personal care services. An 
agency with a Class B license shall not provide any skilled healthcare service. 
(B) 
An HCA providing home care services that are regulated by the Colorado Department of 
Health Care Policy and Financing (HCPF), excluding certified agencies defined in Part 
2.4 of this chapter, shall be licensed as a Class B agency unless otherwise specified 
below. 
(1) 
Any HCA providing services regulated by HCPF that also provides skilled care or 
services delivered by a licensed professional shall be licensed as a Class A 
HCA. 
(a) 
In reviewing compliance with the requirements of this chapter by the 
Program of All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE) established in 
Section 25.5-5-412, C.R.S., the Department shall coordinate with HCPF 
in regulatory interpretation of both license and certification requirements 
to ensure the intent of similar regulations is congruently met. 
(b) 
Any HCA participating in the In-Home Support Service program may be 
licensed as a Class A or B HCA and shall comply with both HCPF’s 
regulations concerning those programs and the applicable portions of 
this chapter. The Department shall coordinate with HCPF in regulatory 
interpretation of both license and certification requirements to ensure the 
intent of similar regulations is congruently met.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
10 
(C) 
Residential facilities 
(1) 
Any residential facility that delivers skilled home health or personal care services 
that the facility is not otherwise licensed or certified to provide, shall either 
become licensed as a home care agency or require the skilled home health or 
personal care services to be delivered by a licensed home care agency. 
(a) 
Consumer services shall be provided only upon individual service 
contracts. The resident or consumer requiring services not covered 
under the primary license shall be given the opportunity to contract with 
the home care agency of choice and shall not be restricted to the use of 
the residential facility home care agency. 
(b) 
A residential facility may not contract for nor provide skilled home health 
or personal care services on a facility-wide basis under this license. Each 
residential facility providing facility-wide services shall be licensed 
according to the appropriate provider type. 
(c) 
The home care records shall be easily identifiable and separated in the 
consumer record from the residential care records. 
(2) 
The requirements contained in Parts 5 through 7 of this chapter shall apply only 
to processes, policies, and procedures that address those consumers receiving 
skilled home health or personal care services in their temporary or permanent 
home or place of residence. 
(a) 
The requirements apply to all residential facilities providing skilled home 
health services not covered under the primary residential care license or 
certification. 
(b) 
The requirements for governing body, professional advisory committee, 
complaints, occurrences, and quality assurance activities may be met, in 
whole or in part, in conjunction with like activities of the primary license. 
However, there shall be documented oversight of the home care portion 
of the services provided distinct from that of the primary license. 
(D) 
Pursuant to Section 25.5-10-202(22), C.R.S., Independent Residential Support Services 
do not require licensure by the Department. 
(E) 
Nothing in this section relieves an entity that contracts or arranges with a community 
centered board or service agency, and that meets the definition of a “home care agency” 
under Section 25-27.5-102, C.R.S., from the entity’s obligation to apply for, and operate 
under, a license in accordance with these regulations. 
4.2 
License Procedure 
(A) 
The HCA shall comply with the requirements of 6 CCR 1011-1, Chapter 2, regarding 
license application procedures, the process for change of ownership, and the continuing 
obligations of a licensee. 
(B) 
When submitting an application for an initial or renewal license, the HCA shall include 
evidence of either liability insurance coverage or a surety bond in lieu of liability insurance 
coverage. Such coverage shall be maintained for the duration of the license period. The 
minimum amount of coverage is:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
11 
(1) 
Class A – $500,000 per occurrence and $3,000,000 aggregate. 
(2) 
Class B – $100,000 per occurrence and $300,000 aggregate. 
(C) 
The agency shall submit to the Department a list of the contiguous counties that it plans 
to serve and assure adequate staffing, supervision, consumer care, and services are 
provided within the declared geographical area. 
(D) 
With the submission of an application for licensure or within ten (10) calendar days after a 
change in the owner, manager, or administrator, each owner and each manager or 
administrator of a home care agency shall submit a complete set of their fingerprints to 
the Colorado Bureau of Investigation for the purpose of conducting a state and national 
fingerprint-based criminal history record check. Each owner, manager, or administrator is 
responsible for paying the fee established by the Colorado Bureau of Investigation for 
conducting the criminal history record check. 
(1) 
The Department may acquire a name-based criminal history record check for an 
applicant who has twice submitted to a finger-print based criminal history record 
check and whose fingerprints are unclassifiable. 
(2) 
When the results of a finger-print based criminal history record check of an 
applicant reveal a record of arrest without a disposition, the Department shall 
require that person to submit to a name-based criminal history record check. 
(3) 
No license shall be issued or renewed by the Department if the owner, applicant, 
or licensee of the home care agency has been convicted of a felony or a 
misdemeanor, which felony or misdemeanor involves conduct that the 
Department determines could pose a risk to the health, safety, or welfare of HCA 
consumers. 
(4) 
Each HCA owner, applicant, or licensee is under an affirmative obligation to 
inform the Department if they are convicted of a felony or of a misdemeanor that 
involves moral turpitude or conduct that the Department determines could pose a 
risk to the health, safety, or welfare of HCA consumers. Failure to advise the 
Department of a conviction may result in non-renewal or other appropriate 
sanctions, as set forth in Parts 4.7 and 4.8 of this chapter. 
(E) 
No license shall be transferred from one location to another without prior notice to the 
Department as provided in this subsection. If an agency is considering moving or 
changing the licensed physical address, the agency shall notify the Department thirty (30) 
days prior to the intended relocation. 
(1) 
To retain the current license, the new physical location shall be relocated within 
the existing geographic service area and retain the same governing body and 
administrator. 
(2) 
If the change in physical address does not meet the requirements listed above, 
the HCA shall submit an application for a new license. 
(F) 
An HCA shall notify the Department thirty (30) days prior to making any changes to the 
branch office physical address or organization. 
(G) 
An HCA seeking a waiver of these regulations, or any other Department regulations, shall 
comply with the requirements of 6 CCR 1011-1, Chapter 2, Part 5.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
12 
4.3 
Provisional Licenses 
(A) 
The HCA shall comply with the requirements of 6 CCR 1011-1, Chapter 2, Part 2.4 
regarding provisional licenses, with the following additions: 
(1) 
If requested by HCPF, the Department may issue a provisional license for a 
period of ninety (90) days to an agency that has applied to be a certified home 
care agency. 
(2) 
No provisional license shall be granted before completion of a criminal 
background check and finding in accordance with Part 4.2 of this chapter. 
4.4 
License fees 
HCA license applicants and licensees shall pay and submit license and license-related fees as 
published in accordance with 6 CCR 1011-1, Chapter 2, Part 2.12. 
(A) 
Applicable fees may include, but are not limited to: 
(1) 
Initial, renewal, provisional, or conditional licenses; 
(2) 
Change of ownership of an existing license; 
(2) 
Branch and workstation fees; 
(3) 
Additional volume fees based on the previous year’s reported annual admissions; 
(4) 
Revisit fees; or 
(5) 
Change of name and change of address. 
(B) 
Fees in (A), above, may vary based on factors such as the HCA, its Class, and its 
Medicare or Medicaid certification status. 
4.5 
License process 
(A) 
Initial licensure 
(1) 
Each HCA license applicant shall specify the type and extent of services to be 
provided and request the appropriate license category based upon the criteria set 
forth in Part 4.1 of this chapter. 
(2) 
Any currently licensed Class B HCA that desires to change its license category to 
a Class A HCA shall submit an initial license application and initial license fee for 
a Class A license. 
(B) 
Renewal licensure 
(1) 
Each HCA shall report its annual admissions for the previous year on its license 
renewal application. 
(2) 
Each HCA that is currently certified to provide Medicaid or Medicare services 
shall be eligible for a deduction from its base fee.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
13 
(3) 
A license applicant that is accredited by an accrediting organization recognized 
by CMS as having deeming authority may be eligible for discount off the base 
renewal license fee. In order to be eligible for this discount, the license applicant 
shall submit copies of its most recent recertification survey(s), and any plan(s) of 
correction with the most recent letter of accreditation showing the license 
applicant has full accreditation status in addition to a completed renewal 
application. 
(C) 
Branch and workstation fees 
(1) 
For existing branches, the fee shall be submitted with the license application. 
(2) 
For new branches, the fee shall accompany the notice of the HCA's intent to 
open a branch office pursuant to Part 5.2 of this chapter. 
(3) 
An HCA that operates one or more work stations solely for the convenience of 
direct care staff shall pay a fee per workstation. 
(E) 
Revisit fee 
(1) 
An HCA’s annual license fee may be increased as the result of a licensure 
inspection or substantiated complaint investigation where a deficient practice is 
cited that has either caused harm or has the potential to cause harm to a 
consumer and which the HCA has failed to demonstrate appropriate correction of 
the cited deficiencies at the first on-site revisit. 
(2) 
The fee shall be assessed for the second on-site inspection and each 
subsequent on-site inspection pertaining to the same deficiency. 
4.6 
Inspections 
(A) 
The HCA shall comply with the requirements of 6 CCR 1011-1, Chapter 2, Parts 2.9.4, 
2.10.1, and 2.10.2 regarding inspections, with the following additions: 
(1) 
The Department shall make such inspections as it deems necessary to ensure 
that the health, safety, and welfare of home care consumers are protected. In 
addition to licensure inspections, the Department may conduct supplemental 
inspections at any time in response to complaints alleging noncompliance with 
the regulations contained in this chapter. 
(a) 
Consumer records kept in the home or individual consumer documents 
not included in the HCA’s permanent record shall be made available to 
the Department within two (2) hours of request if the last visit occurred 
fourteen (14) or more days prior to the request. The time for production 
may be extended at the Department’s discretion. 
(b) 
The consumer file and administrative records, including but not limited to, 
census and demographic information, complaint and incident reports, 
meeting minutes, quality assurance, and annual program review 
documents shall be provided to the inspector commencing within thirty 
(30) minutes of request. The time for production may be extended at the 
Department’s discretion. 
(2) 
Inspections shall not be conducted in a home care consumer’s home without the 
consumer’s consent.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
14 
4.7 
Plan of Correction 
The HCA shall comply with the requirements of 6 CCR 1011-1, Chapter 2, Part 2.10.4(B) regarding a plan 
of correction. 
4.8 
Intermediate Restrictions or Conditions 
(A) 
The Department may impose intermediate restrictions or conditions on a license, which 
may include at least one of the following: 
(1) 
Retaining a consultant to address corrective measures; 
(2) 
Monitoring by the Department for a specific period; 
(3) 
Providing additional training to personnel, owners, or operators of the home care 
agency; 
(4) 
Complying with a directed written plan to correct the violation; or 
(5) 
Paying a civil fine not to exceed $10,000 per calendar year for all violations. 
(B) 
If the Department imposes an intermediate restriction or condition that is not the result of 
a serious and immediate threat to health or welfare, the Department shall provide the 
agency with written notice of the restriction or condition. No later than ten (10) days after 
receipt of the notice, the agency shall submit a written plan that includes the time frame 
for completing the directed plan that addresses the restriction or condition specified. 
(C) 
If the Department imposes an intermediate restriction or condition that is the result of a 
serious and immediate threat to health, safety, or welfare, the Department shall notify the 
agency in writing, by telephone, or in person during an on-site visit. 
(1) 
The agency shall remedy the circumstances creating the harm or potential harm 
immediately upon receiving notice of the restriction or condition. 
(2) 
If the Department provides notice of a restriction or condition by telephone or in 
person, the Department shall send written confirmation of the restriction or 
condition to the agency within two (2) business days. 
(D) 
After submission of an approved written plan, the agency may appeal any intermediate 
restriction or condition to the Department through an informal review process as specified 
by the Department. 
(E) 
If the Department imposes an intermediate restriction or condition that requires payment 
of a civil fine, the agency may request, and the Department shall grant, a stay in payment 
of the fine until final disposition of the restriction or condition. 
(F) 
If an agency is not satisfied with the result of the informal review, or chooses not to seek 
informal review, no intermediate restriction or condition shall be imposed until after the 
opportunity for a hearing has been afforded the licensee pursuant to Section 24-4-105, 
C.R.S. 
4.9 
Enforcement and Disciplinary Sanctions 
The provisions of 6 CCR 1011-1, Chapter 2, Part 2.11 regarding enforcement and disciplinary 
sanctions shall apply to all HCAs and home care placement agencies.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
15 
4.10 
Civil Fines 
If the Department assesses a civil fine pursuant to Part 4.7 of this chapter, the money received by 
the Department shall be transmitted to the state treasurer who shall credit the same to the 
general fund. 
PART 5. 
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL LICENSE CATEGORIES 
5.1 
Out of State Entities 
Every HCA providing services within the state shall have a physical business office capable of conducting 
day-to-day business as an HCA within Colorado and shall be licensed according to the services rendered. 
5.2 
Branch Offices 
(A) 
An HCA shall notify the Department in advance of its plan to establish a branch office. 
Notification shall include, at a minimum: 
(1) 
A description of the services to be provided; 
(2) 
The geographic area to be served by the branch office that is within a portion of 
the total geographic area served by the parent agency; and 
(3) 
A description of how the parent agency will supervise the branch office on a daily 
basis. 
(B) 
A branch office, as an extension of the parent agency, may not offer services that are 
different than those offered by the parent agency. 
(C) 
The location of the branch, in relation to the parent agency, shall be such that the parent 
agency is able to ensure adequate supervision at all times. 
(1) 
The parent agency shall be physically located so that sharing of administration, 
supervision, personnel, and services with the branch can occur on a daily basis, 
and to ensure that the branch office has back-up coverage ready and available to 
serve all consumers when they are scheduled to receive services. 
(2) 
In the event the branch office is unable to meet the consumer’s needs, the parent 
agency shall ensure all consumers continue to receive services when scheduled, 
in accordance with the consumer’s care plan. 
(D) 
The parent agency administrator, manager, or supervisor shall conduct an on-site visit of 
the branch office in accordance with agency policy. 
(E) 
One or more health professionals who possess the experience, education, and 
qualifications to oversee all care and services provided by the branch shall be available 
during all operating hours. 
(1) 
If only personal care services are provided, personnel that meet the qualifications 
of a supervisor shall be available during all operating hours. 
(F) 
The branch office shall have a copy of all agency policies available and readily accessible 
to staff.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
16 
(G) 
The parent agency shall ensure that consumer records are readily accessible to all staff 
providing care and services. 
(H) 
The parent agency shall be aware of the staffing, census, and any issues/matters 
affecting the operation of the branch office at all times. 
5.3 
Consumer Rights 
(A) 
The provisions of 6 CCR 1011-1, Chapter 2, Part 7, shall apply, with the following 
additions: 
(1) 
Assurance of rights 
(a) 
A complete statement of consumer rights, including the right to file a 
complaint with the Department, shall be distributed to all personnel upon 
hire. 
(b) 
At a minimum, the HCA’s policies and procedures shall specify that: 
(i) 
The consumer or authorized representative has the right to be 
informed of the consumer’s rights through an effective means of 
communication. 
(ii) 
The consumer has the right to be assured that the HCA shall not 
condition the provision of care, or otherwise discriminate against 
a consumer, based upon personal, cultural, or ethnic preference, 
disabilities, or whether the consumer has an advance directive. 
(iii) 
The HCA shall protect and promote the exercise of these rights. 
(2) 
Exercise of rights and respect for property and person 
(a) 
The rights of the consumer may be exercised by the consumer or 
authorized representative without fear of retribution or retaliation. 
(b) 
The consumer has the right to have their person and property treated 
with respect. 
(c) 
The consumer has the right to be free from neglect; financial exploitation; 
and verbal, physical, and psychological abuse, including humiliation, 
intimidation, or punishment. 
(d) 
The consumer or authorized representative, upon request to the HCA, 
has the right to be informed of the full name, licensure status, staff 
position, and employer of all persons with whom the consumer has 
contact and who is supplying, staffing, or supervising care or services. 
(e) 
The consumer has the right to be served by agency staff who are 
properly trained and competent to perform their duties. 
(f) 
The consumer has the right to live free from involuntary confinement, 
and to be free from physical or chemical restraints as defined in 6 CCR 
1011-1, Chapter 2, Part 8.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
17 
(g) 
The consumer or authorized representative has the right to express 
complaints verbally, or in writing, about services or care that are or are 
not furnished or about the lack of respect for the consumer’s person or 
property by anyone who is furnishing services on behalf of the HCA. 
(h) 
The consumer has the right to confidentiality of all records, 
communications, and personal information. 
(i) 
The HCA shall advise the consumer of the agency's policies and 
procedures regarding disclosure of clinical information and records. 
(3) 
Right to be informed and to participate in planning care and services 
(a) 
The HCA shall inform the consumer or authorized representative, in 
advance, about the care, method of delivery, and services to be 
furnished, and of any changes in the care, method of delivery, and 
services to be furnished, to enable the consumer to give informed 
consent. 
(i) 
The consumer has the right to refuse treatment, within the 
confines of the law, to be informed of the consequences of such 
action, and to be involved in experimental research only upon 
the consumer’s voluntary written consent. 
(ii) 
The consumer has the right to be told, in advance of receiving 
care, about the services that will be provided, the disciplines that 
will be utilized to furnish care, the frequency of visits proposed to 
be furnished, the method of delivery of services and any 
changes in the method of delivery of services, and the 
consequences of refusing care or services. 
(iii) 
The consumer has the right to refuse to change from an in-
person method of delivery of services to a telehealth method of 
delivery. If the consumer refuses telehealth, their services shall 
continue in person. 
(b) 
The HCA shall offer the consumer or authorized representative the right 
to participate in developing the plan of care, and receive instruction and 
education regarding the plan. 
(i) 
The HCA shall advise the consumer, in advance, of the right to 
participate in planning the care or treatment, and in planning 
changes in the care or treatment. 
(4) 
The consumer has the right to receive prompt care in accordance with the care 
plan. 
(5) 
The consumer or authorized representative has the right to be advised of any 
changes in billing or payment procedures before implementation. 
(a) 
If an HCA is implementing a scheduled rate increase to all consumers, 
the HCA shall provide a written notice to each affected consumer at least 
thirty (30) days before implementation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
18 
(b) 
The HCA shall advise the consumer of any individual changes, orally and 
in writing, as soon as possible, but no later than five (5) business days 
from the date that the HCA becomes aware of a change. 
(c) 
An HCA shall not assume power of attorney or guardianship over a 
consumer utilizing the services of the HCA, require a consumer to 
endorse checks over to the HCA, or require a consumer to execute or 
assign a loan, advance, financial interest, mortgage, or other property in 
exchange for future services. 
(6) 
The consumer or authorized representative has the right to be advised of the 
availability of the state’s toll-free HCA hotline. 
(a) 
The consumer also has the right to use this hotline to lodge complaints 
regarding care received or not received, including implementation of the 
advance directives requirements. 
(7) 
The HCA shall make available to the consumer or authorized representative, 
upon request, a written notice listing all individuals or other legal entities having 
ownership or controlling interest in the agency. 
(a) 
When a change of ownership occurs, the new owner shall send a written 
notice to all of the HCA’s consumers listing all of the new owners and 
give the consumer the opportunity to continue services with the HCA or 
receive assistance in transferring care and services to a different HCA. 
(8) 
The HCA shall maintain documentation showing that it has complied with the 
requirements of this section. 
5.4 
Admissions 
(A) 
Agencies shall only accept consumers for care or services on the basis of a reasonable 
assurance that the needs of the consumer can be met adequately by the agency in the 
individual’s temporary or permanent home or place of residence. 
(1) 
There shall be initial documentation of the agreed upon days and times of 
services to be provided, based upon the consumer’s needs, that is updated at 
least annually. 
(B) 
If an agency receives a referral of a consumer who requires care or services that are not 
available at the time of referral, the agency shall advise the consumer’s primary care 
provider, if applicable, and the consumer or authorized representative of that fact. 
(1) 
The agency shall only admit the consumer if the primary care provider and the 
consumer or consumer’s representative agree the ordered services can be 
delayed or discontinued. 
5.5 
Discharge Planning 
(A) 
There shall be a specific plan for discharge in the consumer record, and there shall be 
ongoing discharge planning with the consumer. 
(B) 
If no improvement or no discharge is expected, the agency shall document this finding in 
the consumer record.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
19 
(C) 
The HCA shall assist each consumer or authorized representative to find an appropriate 
placement with another agency if the consumer continues to require care and/or services 
upon discharge. The HCA shall document due diligence in ensuring continuity of care 
upon discharge, as necessary, to protect the consumer’s safety and welfare. 
(D) 
Once admitted, an HCA shall not discontinue or refuse services to a consumer unless 
documented efforts have been made to resolve the situation that triggered such 
discontinuation or refusal to provide services. 
(1) 
The consumer or authorized representative shall be notified, verbally and in 
writing, of the agency’s intent to discharge and the reasons for the discharge. 
(E) 
An HCA shall notify the Department before it initiates discharge of any consumer who 
requires and desires continuing paid care or services where there are no known transfer 
arrangements to protect the consumer’s health, safety, or welfare. 
(1) 
Emergency discharges necessary to protect the safety and welfare of staff shall 
be reported to the Department within forty-eight (48) hours of the occurrence. 
5.6 
Disclosure Notices 
(A) 
Agency Disclosure Notice 
(1) 
Within one (1) business day of the start of services, the HCA shall provide a 
written disclosure notice to the consumer or authorized representative that 
specifies the service provided by the HCA and the consumer’s obligation 
regarding the home care worker. 
(2) 
The disclosure notice, in the form and manner prescribed by the Department, 
shall be signed by the consumer or authorized representative and shall include 
information as to who is responsible for the following items: 
(a) 
Employment of the home care worker; 
(b) 
Liability for the home care worker while in the consumer’s home; 
(c) 
Payment of wages to the home care worker; 
(d) 
Payment of employment and social security taxes; 
(e) 
Payment of unemployment, worker’s compensation, general liability 
insurance, and, if provided, bond insurance; 
(f) 
Supervision of the home care worker; 
(g) 
Scheduling of the home care worker; 
(h) 
Assignment of duties to the home care worker; 
(i) 
Hiring, firing, and discipline of the home care worker; 
(j) 
Provision of materials or supplies for the home care worker's use in 
providing services to the consumer; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
20 
(k) 
Training and ensuring qualifications that meet the needs of the 
consumer. 
(3) 
Within one (1) business day of the start of services, the HCA shall ensure that 
the consumer or authorized representative acknowledges the disclosure notice. 
(a) 
In the event the consumer refuses to acknowledge the disclosure notice 
in writing, the HCA will document the conveyance of information verbally 
to the consumer or authorized representative. 
(B) 
Notice of Consumer Rights 
(1) 
Within one (1) business day of the start of services, the HCA shall provide the 
consumer or authorized representative with a notice of the consumer’s rights, in 
the form and manner prescribed by the Department and in a manner that the 
consumer understands. 
(2) 
The notice shall include information about the consumer’s options if rights are 
violated, including how to contact an individual employed with the HCA who is 
responsible for the complaint intake and problem resolution process. 
(C) 
Within one (1) business day of the start of services, the HCA shall inform the consumer 
concerning the agency’s policies on advance directives, including a description of 
applicable state law. The HCA may furnish advance directives information to a consumer 
at the time of the first home visit, as long as the information is furnished before care is 
provided. 
(D) 
Within one (1) business day of the start of services, the HCA shall inform the consumer 
or authorized representative, orally and in writing, of the extent to which payment for the 
HCA services may be expected from insurance or other sources and the extent to which 
payment may be required from the consumer. 
(E) 
When the HCA accepts the consumer for treatment or care, the HCA shall inform the 
consumer, in writing, of the telephone number of the home health hotline established by 
the state, the hours of its operation, and that the purpose of the hotline is to receive 
complaints or questions about local HCAs. 
(F) 
The HCA shall maintain documentation showing that it has complied with the 
requirements of this section. 
5.7 
Complaint Processing 
(A) 
The HCA shall develop and implement policies to include the following items: 
(1) 
Investigation of complaints made by a consumer or others about services or care 
that are or are not furnished or about the lack of respect for the consumer's 
person or property by anyone furnishing services on behalf of the HCA. 
(2) 
Documentation of the existence, the investigation, and the resolution of the 
complaint. 
(a) 
The agency shall notify the complainant of the results of the investigation 
and the agency’s plan to resolve any issue identified.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
21 
(3) 
Incorporation of the substantiated findings into the HCA’s quality assurance 
program in order to evaluate and implement systemic changes, where needed. 
(4) 
An explicit statement that the HCA does not discriminate or retaliate against 
consumers for expressing a complaint or multiple complaints. 
(5) 
Maintenance of a separate written or electronic record/log/file detailing all activity 
regarding complaints received and their investigation and resolution thereof. 
(a) 
The record shall be maintained for at least a two (2) year period of time 
and shall be available for audit and inspection purposes. 
5.8 
Agency Reporting Requirements 
(A) 
The provisions of 6 CCR 1011-1, Chapter 2, Part 4.2, regarding occurrence reporting 
requirements shall apply to all HCAs and home care placement agencies. 
(B) 
The HCA shall develop and implement policies and procedures regarding the 
investigation of reportable occurrences and any alleged incidents involving neglect, 
abuse, or personnel misconduct, including but not limited to: 
(1) 
The timely investigation of all alleged incidents involving neglect, abuse, or 
personnel misconduct. 
(2) 
The investigation of each reportable occurrence and appropriate measures 
instituted to prevent similar future occurrences. 
(a) 
A report with the investigation findings shall be available for review by 
the Department within five (5) working days of the occurrence. 
(3) 
Administrative procedures to be implemented to protect the HCA's consumers 
during the investigation process. 
(4) 
Documentation regarding the investigation, including the appropriate measures 
to be instituted, that shall be made available to the Department, upon request. 
(C) 
Nothing in this Part 5.8 shall be construed to limit or modify any statutory or common-law 
right, privilege, confidentiality, or immunity. 
(D) 
Mandatory Reporting 
(1)  
HCA personnel engaged in the care or treatment of at-risk persons shall report 
suspected physical or sexual abuse, exploitation, and/or caretaker neglect to law 
enforcement within twenty-four (24) hours of observation or discovery pursuant to 
Section 18-6.5-108, C.R.S. 
(2) 
HCA personnel engaged in the care or treatment of children shall report 
suspected abuse or neglect to the county department, local law enforcement, or 
to the child abuse reporting hotline pursuant to Section 19-3-304 and 307, C.R.S. 
(3) 
The HCA shall ensure all personnel have knowledge of these requirements. 
(4) 
The HCA shall report the incident to the Department as an occurrence, if 
applicable.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
22 
5.9 
Personnel 
(A) 
Policies 
(1) 
The HCA shall define the required competence, qualifications, and experience of 
personnel in each program or service it provides. 
(2) 
The HCA shall ensure that all personnel have access to and are knowledgeable 
about the HCA’s policies and procedures. 
(B) 
Records 
(1) 
Personnel records shall include references, dates of employment and separation 
from the HCA, and the reason for separation. 
(2) 
Personnel records shall include, at a minimum: 
(a) 
Qualifications and licensure that are kept current; 
(i) 
Qualifications include confirmation of type and depth of 
experience, advanced skills, training, and education; appropriate, 
detailed, and observed competency evaluation; and written 
testing overseen by a person with the same or higher validated 
qualifications; 
(b) 
Orientation to the agency; 
(c) 
Job descriptions for all positions assigned by the agency; and 
(d) 
Annual performance evaluation for each employee. 
(C) 
Criminal History Record checks 
(1) 
The HCA shall require any individual seeking employment with the agency to 
submit to a criminal history record check to ascertain whether the individual 
seeking employment has been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor, which 
felony or misdemeanor involves conduct that the agency determines could pose 
a risk to the health, safety, or welfare of home care consumers. 
(2) 
The criminal history record check shall, at a minimum, include a search of 
criminal history in the State of Colorado and be conducted not more than ninety 
(90) days prior to employment of the individual. 
(3) 
The cost of such inquiry shall be paid by either the HCA or the individual seeking 
employment. 
(4) 
In assessing whether to employ an applicant with a felony or misdemeanor 
conviction, the HCA shall consider the following factors: 
(a) 
The history of convictions or pleas of guilty or no contest; 
(b) 
The nature and seriousness of the crimes; 
(c) 
The time that has elapsed since the conviction(s);

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
23 
(d) 
Whether there are any mitigating circumstances; and 
(e) 
The nature of the position for which the applicant would be employed. 
(5) 
The HCA shall develop and implement policies and procedures regarding the 
employment of any individual who is convicted of a felony or misdemeanor to 
ensure that the individual does not pose a risk to the health, safety, and welfare 
of the consumer. 
(D) 
Before employing any individual to provide direct consumer care or services, the HCA 
must show compliance with the Colorado Adult Protective Services Data System (CAPS 
Check) requirements as set forth in Section 26-3.1-111, C.R.S., and 6 CCR 1011-1, 
Chapter 2, Part 2.3.6. 
(E) 
Before employing any individual to provide direct consumer care or services, the agency 
shall contact the DORA to verify whether a license, registration, or certification exists and 
is in good standing. A copy of the inquiry shall be placed in the individual’s personnel file. 
(F) 
Contracted Personnel 
(1) 
If contracted personnel are used by the HCA, the HCA shall have a written 
contract with such personnel that specifies the following: 
(a) 
That consumers are accepted for care only by the primary HCA; 
(b) 
The specific services to be furnished; 
(c) 
The necessity to conform to all applicable agency policies, including 
personnel qualifications; 
(d) 
The responsibility for participating in developing plans of care or service; 
(e) 
The manner in which services will be controlled, coordinated, and 
evaluated by the primary HCA; 
(f) 
The procedures for submitting clinical/service notes, scheduling of visits, 
and periodic consumer evaluation; and 
(g) 
The procedures for payment for services furnished under the contract. 
(2) 
Personnel policies shall be available to all contracted personnel. 
5.10 
Emergency Preparedness 
(A) 
The HCA shall conduct a risk assessment of the hazards or potential emergency 
situations the HCA could encounter. 
(1) 
This assessment shall address, but not be limited to, the following 
considerations: 
(a) 
Geographical location of the HCA, any branch offices and workstations, 
and its consumers; 
(b) 
Needs of the HCA’s consumer population; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
24 
(c) 
Potential natural and human-made crises that impact the HCA’s ability to 
operate, including but not limited to: extreme weather, fire, power or 
internet/communication outages, threatened or actual acts of violence, 
and pandemic or disease outbreak events. 
(2) 
The assessment shall be documented. 
(3) 
The assessment shall be reviewed at least annually and updated as necessary. 
(B) 
The HCA shall develop a written emergency preparedness plan, based on the results of 
the assessment required in Part 5.10(A), that is designed to manage consumers’ care 
and services. The HCA shall implement the plan in response to the consequences of 
natural disasters or other emergencies that disrupt the HCA’s ability to provide care and 
services or threaten the lives or safety of its consumers. 
(C) 
The emergency preparedness plan shall be reviewed at least annually or after any 
emergency response and shall be updated as necessary. 
(D) 
Personnel shall be trained on the emergency preparedness plan upon hire and at least 
annually or when any changes in the emergency preparedness process, procedures, or 
responsibilities are made. 
(E) 
At a minimum, the emergency preparedness plan shall include the following: 
(1) 
Strategies for addressing emergency situations identified by the risk assessment; 
(2) 
Identification of personnel responsible for responding to emergency situations 
and implementing the plan; 
(3) 
Procedures to contact personnel and consumers impacted by an emergency; 
(4) 
A mechanism for assessing and triaging the needs of its consumers to ensure 
continuation of necessary care for all consumers during an emergency. The HCA 
shall continually assess the status of its consumers to ensure they are triaged 
appropriately based on needs; 
(5) 
Strategies for continuing to provide consumer services when there are 
interruptions in the supply of essentials, including but not limited to: water, 
pharmaceuticals, and personal protective equipment (PPE); 
(6) 
Education for consumers, caregivers, and families on how to handle care and 
treatment, safety, and/or well-being during and following instances of natural and 
other disasters, including strategies and resources for ensuring access to life 
sustaining supplies, appropriate to the needs of the consumer; 
(7) 
Strategies to protect and transfer consumer records, if necessary; and 
(8) 
Strategies for continuing consumer care in the event the HCA is unable to access 
consumer records. 
5.11 
Coordination with External Home Care Agencies 
(A) 
Each HCA shall be responsible for the coordination of consumer services with known 
external HCAs providing care and services to the same consumer.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
25 
(1) 
No HCA shall refuse to share consumer care information unless the consumer 
has chosen to refuse coordination with external HCAs. 
(2) 
The consumer’s refusal of such coordination shall be documented in the 
consumer’s record. 
5.12 
Quality Management Program 
Every HCA shall establish a quality management program appropriate to the size and type of agency that 
evaluates the quality of consumer services, care, and safety, and that complies with the requirements set 
forth in 6 CCR 1011, Chapter 2, Part 4.1. 
5.13 
Infection Prevention and Control 
(A) 
The HCA shall provide training for its personnel regarding the agency’s written infection 
prevention and control policies and procedures at the time of hire and at least annually. 
(B) 
The HCA shall evaluate the adequacy of its infection prevention and control policies and 
procedures at least annually, make any necessary substantive changes, and document 
such changes in writing or electronically. 
(C) 
Personnel Health – Communicable Disease Prevention 
(1) 
It shall be the responsibility of the HCA to establish written policies concerning 
pre-employment physical evaluations and personnel health. Those policies shall 
include, but not be limited to: 
(a) 
Work restrictions to be placed on direct care personnel who are known to 
be affected with any illness in a communicable stage or to be a carrier of 
a communicable illness or disease. 
5.14 
Missed Visits 
(A) 
The HCA shall have a mechanism for informing the consumer about scheduled visits in 
accordance with HCA policy. Documentation shall be maintained and alterations in the 
schedule shall be provided to the consumer in advance of any changes to the schedule, 
where possible. 
(1) 
The HCA’s policy shall address processes for HCA planning for coverage of 
personnel illness, vacation, holidays, and unexpected voluntary or involuntary 
termination of employment. 
(2) 
If the consumer does not respond to let personnel in the home for the scheduled 
visit, the HCA’s attempts to ensure the safety of the consumer and the outcome 
of each attempt shall be documented. 
(3) 
If there is a missed visit, services missed shall be provided as agreed upon by 
the consumer and the HCA. 
(4) 
If the HCA admits consumers with needs that require care or services to be 
delivered at specific times or parts of day, the HCA shall ensure qualified 
personnel in sufficient quantity are employed by the agency or have other 
effective back-up plans to ensure the needs of the consumer are met.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
26 
(5) 
The back-up plan for scheduled services that cannot be delivered shall not 
include calling for an ambulance or other emergency services unless emergency 
services would have been warranted even if the scheduled personnel had been 
in the home and had delivered services. 
5.15 
Information Management System 
(A) 
Each HCA shall implement a policy and procedure for an effective information 
management system that is either paper-based or electronic. Processes shall include 
effective management for capturing, reporting, processing, storing, and retrieving 
clinical/service data and information in accordance with standards of practice. The 
system shall provide for: 
(1) 
Privacy and confidentiality of protected health information from unauthorized use 
or manipulation; and 
(2) 
Organization of the consumer record utilizing standardized formats for 
documenting all care, treatment, and services provided to consumers according 
to HCA policy. Standardization shall not include pre-filled documentation of future 
care and services. 
(B) 
In addition, for electronic consumer records, policies and procedures shall be developed 
and implemented to ensure: 
(1) 
A method for validating data entry access and changes to previously entered 
data; and 
(2) 
Recovery of records, including contingency plans for operational interruptions 
(hardware, software, or other systems failures), an emergency service plan, and 
a back-up system for retrieval of data from storage and information in the 
operating system. 
(C) 
Content of Consumer Records 
(1) 
All HCAs shall have a complete and accurate record for each consumer 
assessed, cared for, treated, or served. 
(2) 
The record shall contain sufficient information to identify the consumer; support 
the diagnosis or condition; justify the care, treatment, and/or services delivered; 
and promote continuity of care internally and externally, where applicable. 
(3) 
Records shall contain consumer-specific information as appropriate to the care, 
treatment, or services provided, including but not limited to: 
(a) 
Records of communications with the consumer or authorized 
representative regarding care, treatment, and services, including 
documentation of phone calls and e-mails; and 
(b) 
Referrals to and names of known home care agencies, individuals, and 
organizations involved in the consumer’s care. 
(4) 
The record shall indicate if the service or visit was provided in person or via 
telehealth.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
27 
(5) 
Clinical records for HCAs providing skilled home health services shall contain, 
where applicable: 
(a) 
Hospital and emergency room records for known episodes or 
documentation of efforts to obtain the information; 
(b) 
Medical equipment provided by the HCA or related to the care, 
treatment, and services provided, including assessment of consumer and 
family comprehension of appropriate use and maintenance; 
(c) 
Consumer and family education and training on services or treatments, 
and the use of equipment at the time of delivery to the home; 
(d) 
Safety measures taken to protect the consumer from harm, including fall 
risk assessments, and documentation why any identified or planned 
safety measures were not implemented or continued; and 
(e) 
Diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, treatments, tests, and their 
results. 
(D) 
Consumer records must be retained for five (5) years after the discharge of the 
consumer, unless state law requires a longer period of time. 
(1) 
The HCA’s policies shall provide for retention of consumer records even if it 
discontinues operation. 
(a) 
When an HCA permanently discontinues operation, it shall comply with 
the requirements of 6 CCR 1011-1, Chapter 2, Part 2.14.4. 
(b) 
When an HCA discontinues operation, it shall inform the state agency of 
where clinical records will be maintained. 
(2) 
A change of ownership does not constitute discontinuing operation. 
(3) 
When an HCA has a change of ownership, the existing owner shall provide the 
new owner with all consumer records. 
PART 6. 
SKILLED CARE 
6.1 
Governing Body 
(A) 
An HCA shall have an organized governing body consisting of members who singularly 
or collectively have business and healthcare experience sufficient to oversee the services 
provided by the HCA. 
(B) 
The governing body shall assume responsibility for: 
(1) 
Compliance with all federal, state, and local laws and regulations. 
(2) 
Quality consumer care, including annual review and approval of the HCA's 
Quality Management Plan. 
(3) 
Development of policies and procedures which describe and direct functions or 
services of the HCA and protect consumer rights.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
28 
(4) 
Development of bylaws or governing document that shall include, at a minimum: 
(a) 
A description of functions and duties of the governing body, officers, and 
committees, including a process for review of agency operations at least 
annually; 
(b) 
A statement of the authority and responsibility delegated to the 
administrator; and 
(c) 
A requirement to meet at least annually. 
(5) 
Development of a policy and procedure for determining the qualifications of the 
administrator. Appointment of a qualified administrator, responsible for the HCA’s 
overall functions, shall be documented in writing. 
(6) 
Review of the written agency evaluation report and other communications from 
the administrator or group of professional personnel with evidence of written 
response. 
(7) 
Establishing and ensuring the maintenance of a system of financial management 
and accountability. 
(8) 
Organizing services furnished, administrative control, and lines of authority for 
the delegation of responsibility down to the consumer care level, that are clearly 
set forth in writing and are readily identifiable. 
(9) 
Documentation of governing body meetings and activities. 
6.2 
Administration 
(A) 
The HCA, under the direction of the governing body, shall be responsible for preparation 
of an overall plan and a budget that includes an annual operating budget and capital 
expenditure plan, as applicable. 
(1) 
The governing body shall review and update the overall plan and budget at least 
annually. 
(B) 
Any HCA that performs procedures in the consumer’s residence that are considered 
waivered clinical laboratory procedures under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act of 
1988 shall possess a certificate of waiver from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid 
Services or its designated agency. 
(C) 
Any HCA that provides equipment to consumers shall develop and implement policies 
and procedures for the management of medical equipment provided for use in consumer 
homes, including: selection, acquisition, delivery, and maintenance of the equipment. 
(1) 
The HCA shall make full disclosure of the policies and procedures to all 
consumers before the equipment is provided. 
(2) 
The policies and procedures shall include the following: 
(a) 
A process to provide an appropriate back-up system, including 
emergency services twenty-four (24) hours per day where the 
malfunction may threaten the consumer’s life;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
29 
(b) 
Monitoring and acting upon equipment hazard notices and recalls; 
(c) 
Checking equipment upon delivery to the consumer to ensure it is 
sanitary, undamaged, and operating properly; 
(d) 
Basic safety and operational checks on infusion pumps that include a 
volumetric test of accuracy of infusion rate between each consumer use; 
and 
(e) 
Performance of routine and preventive maintenance conducted at 
defined intervals per manufacturer’s guidelines. 
(D) 
Availability After Business Hours 
(1) 
The HCA shall have a registered nurse or other appropriate health professional 
available after business hours. 
(2) 
The HCA shall have a policy describing, at a minimum, the following: 
(a) 
How consumers will contact the agency after hours; and 
(b) 
How the agency will ensure the health professional on call has access to 
all current consumer information. 
6.3 
Agency Evaluation 
(A) 
The HCA's governing body or its designee shall conduct a comprehensive evaluation of 
the HCA's total operation at least annually. 
(B) 
The evaluation shall assure the appropriateness and quality of the HCA’s services with 
findings used to verify policy implementation, to identify problems, and to establish 
problem resolution and policy revision as necessary. 
(C) 
The evaluation shall consist of an overall policy and administration review, including the 
scope of services offered, arrangements for services with other agencies or individuals, 
admission and discharge policies, supervision and plan of care, emergency care, service 
records, and personnel qualifications. 
(1) 
The HCA shall implement an on-going mechanism for consumer involvement to 
provide input and comment regarding services provided by the HCA in 
accordance with HCA policy. Consumer input and commentary shall be provided 
to the governing body at least annually to identify trends or issues requiring 
consideration. 
(D) 
In evaluating each aspect of its total program, the HCA shall consider four (4) main 
criteria: 
(1) 
Appropriateness - assurance that the area being evaluated addresses existing 
and/or potential problems. 
(2) 
Adequacy - a determination as to whether the HCA has the capacity to overcome 
or minimize existing or potential problems. 
(3) 
Effectiveness - the services offered accomplish the objectives of the HCA and 
anticipated consumer outcomes.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
30 
(4) 
Efficiency - whether there is a minimal expenditure of resources by the HCA to 
achieve desired goals and anticipated consumer outcomes. 
(E) 
Documentation of the annual evaluation shall include the names and titles of the persons 
carrying out the evaluation, the criteria and methods used to accomplish it, and any 
action taken by the HCA as a result of its findings. 
(F) 
Appropriate professionals representing the scope of the HCA’s program shall evaluate 
the HCA's consumer records at least quarterly. 
(1) 
The evaluation shall include a review of sample active and closed consumer 
records to ensure that HCA policies are followed in providing services, both 
directly and under arrangement, and to assure that the quality of service is 
satisfactory and appropriate. The review shall consist of a representative sample 
of all home care services provided by the HCA. 
6.4 
Administrator 
(A) 
The administrator shall assume authority for the operation of the HCA’s skilled health 
services, including but not limited to: 
(1) 
Organizing and directing the HCA’s ongoing functions; 
(2) 
Employing qualified personnel and ensuring appropriate ongoing education and 
supervision of all personnel; 
(3) 
Ensuring the accuracy of public information materials and activities; 
(4) 
Implementing a budgeting and accounting system; and 
(5) 
Designating in writing a qualified alternate administrator to act in the 
administrator’s absence. 
(B) 
The administrator shall: 
(1) 
Be at least twenty-one (21) years of age; 
(2) 
Be a licensed physician, registered nurse, or other licensed healthcare 
professional, or have experience and education in health service administration; 
(3) 
Be qualified by education, knowledge, and experience to oversee the services 
provided; and 
(4) 
Have at least two (2) years healthcare or health service administration 
experience with at least one (1) year of supervisory experience in home care or a 
closely related health program. 
(C) 
The administrator shall have the overall responsibility to ensure the following: 
(1) 
The HCA’s skilled health services are in compliance with all applicable federal, 
state, and local laws; 
(2) 
The completion, maintenance, and submission of such reports and records as 
required by the Department;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
31 
(3) 
Ongoing liaison with the governing body, personnel, and the community; 
(4) 
Maintenance of a current organizational chart to show lines of authority down to 
the consumer level; 
(5) 
The management of the business affairs and the overall operation of the HCA; 
(6) 
Maintenance of appropriate personnel, financial, and administrative records and 
all policies and procedures of the agency; 
(7) 
Employment of qualified personnel in accordance with written job descriptions; 
(8) 
Orientation of new personnel, and regularly scheduled in-service education 
programs and opportunities for continuing education are provided for the 
personnel; 
(9) 
Availability of the administrator or designee at all hours personnel are providing 
services, at minimum, any eight (8) hour period between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. 
Monday through Friday; 
(10) 
Marketing, advertising, and promotional information accurately represents the 
HCA and addresses the care, treatment, and services that the HCA can provide 
directly or through contractual arrangement; and 
(11) 
Maintenance of a coordinated HCA-wide program for the surveillance, 
identification, prevention, control, and investigation of infectious and 
communicable diseases that is an integral part of the HCA’s quality management 
program. 
(D) 
Curriculum for administrator training 
(1) 
A first-time administrator or alternate administrator shall complete a total of 
twenty-four (24) clock hours of training in the administration of an HCA before the 
end of the first twelve (12) months after designation to the position. 
(2) 
A first-time administrator or alternate administrator shall complete eight (8) clock 
hours of educational training in the administration of an HCA within the first 
month of employment. The eight (8) clock hours shall include, at a minimum, the 
following topics: 
(a) 
Home care overview; 
(b) 
Information on the licensing standards for the HCA; and 
(c) 
Information on state and local laws applicable to the HCA. 
(3) 
A first-time administrator or alternate administrator shall complete an additional 
sixteen (16) clock hours of educational training before the end of the first twelve 
(12) months after designation to the position. Any of the sixteen (16) clock hours 
may be completed prior to designation if completed during the twelve (12) 
months immediately preceding the date of designation to the position. The 
additional sixteen (16) clock hours shall include the following subjects and may 
include other topics related to the duties of an administrator:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
32 
(a) 
Consumer rights, governing body and administrator responsibilities, 
quality management plans, occurrence reporting, and complaint 
investigation and resolution process; 
(b) 
Personnel qualifications, experience, competency, and evaluations; 
(c) 
Financial management; 
(d) 
Ethics in healthcare; 
(e) 
Needs of the fragile, ill, and physically and cognitively disabled in the 
community setting with special training and staffing considerations; 
(f) 
Behavior management techniques; 
(g) 
Staffing methodologies and oversight of scheduling; 
(h) 
Staff training and supervision; and 
(i) 
Limitations of personal care versus health care services. 
(4) 
The twenty-four (24) clock hour education requirement shall be met through 
structured, formalized classes, correspondence courses, competency-based 
computer courses, training videos, distance learning programs, or other training 
courses. Subject matter that deals with the internal affairs of an organization 
does not qualify for credit. The training shall be provided or produced by an 
academic institution, a recognized state or national organization or association, 
an independent contractor, or an HCA. 
(a) 
If an HCA or independent contractor provides or produces training, the 
training shall first be approved by the Department or recognized by a 
national organization or association. The HCA shall maintain 
documentation of this approval for review by inspectors. 
(5) 
Documentation of administrator or alternate administrator training must be on file 
at the HCA and contain the name of the class or workshop, the course content or 
curriculum, the hours and dates of the training, and the name and contact 
information of the entity and trainer who provided the training. 
(6) 
After completion of the twenty-four (24) clock hours of educational training within 
the first twelve (12) months after designation as a first-time administrator or 
alternate administrator, each must then complete the continuing education 
requirements in each subsequent twelve (12)-month period after designation. 
(7) 
An administrator shall complete twelve (12) clock hours of continuing education 
within each twelve (12)-month period beginning with the date of designation. The 
education shall include at least two (2) of the following topics and may include 
other topics related to the duties of the administrator. 
(a) 
Any of the topics listed under the initial training requirements; 
(b) 
Development and implementation of agency policies; 
(c) 
Healthcare management;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
33 
(d) 
Ethics; 
(e) 
Quality improvement; 
(f) 
Risk assessment and management; 
(g) 
Financial management; 
(h) 
Skills for working with consumers, families, and other professional 
service providers, including considerations for special populations served 
by the HCA; 
(i) 
Community resources; and 
(j) 
Marketing. 
(8) 
For an administrator or alternate administrator who has not served as an 
administrator for 180 days or more immediately preceding the date of 
designation, at least eight (8) of the twelve (12) clock hours within the first twelve 
(12) months after designation shall include the topics listed for first time 
administrators. The remaining four (4) clock hours shall include topics related to 
the duties of the administrator and include at least two (2) of the topics listed 
under continuing education. If a previous administrator has not been employed 
as such for two (2) years or more, the requirements for a first time administrator 
apply. 
6.5 
Nursing or Healthcare Supervisor 
(A) 
The skilled nursing services furnished shall be under the supervision and direction of a 
physician or registered nurse who has at least two (2) years of nursing experience 
including one (1) year in home care or a closely related service. 
(1) 
Other healthcare services shall be under the supervision and direction of a 
physician, registered nurse, or other licensed healthcare professional who has at 
least two (2) years of healthcare experience in the field of supervision including 
one (1) year of experience in home care or a closely related service. 
(B) 
The nursing or healthcare supervisor, or similarly qualified alternate, shall be available at 
all times during operating hours and participate in all activities relevant to the professional 
services furnished, including the development of qualifications and the assignment of 
personnel. 
(C) 
The nursing or healthcare supervisor shall ensure oversight of all consumer care services 
and personnel, including but not limited to: 
(1) 
Making consumer and personnel assignments; 
(2) 
Coordinating consumer care; 
(3) 
Coordinating referrals; 
(4) 
Assuring that consumer needs are continually assessed; and 
(5) 
Assuring the development, implementation, and updates of the individualized 
plan of care.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
34 
6.6 
Personnel 
(A) 
All personnel shall possess the education and experience to provide services in the 
homes of consumers in accordance with HCA policy, state practice acts, and professional 
standards of practice as set forth in this chapter. 
(B) 
Licensed, certified, and/or registered personnel shall have an active license, certification, 
or registration, issued by DORA with no restriction that would affect the ability to perform 
required duties, and shall provide services within their scope of practice. 
(C) 
Personnel not licensed, certified, or registered by DORA shall, at a minimum, meet the 
following requirements: 
(1) 
A phlebotomist shall: 
(a) 
Have successfully completed an approved phlebotomy training course or 
equivalent experience through previous employment; and 
(b) 
Have two (2) years of verifiable phlebotomy experience. 
(D) 
Ongoing training shall be provided to all direct care personnel. Training requirements 
shall be consistent with the program, services, and equipment the HCA provides and 
appropriate to the needs of the populations served. 
(1) 
Training shall consist of at least twelve (12) topics applicable to the HCA’s care 
and services every twelve (12) months after the starting date of employment or 
calendar year as designated by HCA policy. The training requirement shall be 
prorated in accordance with the number of months the individual was actively 
working for the agency. 
(2) 
Training shall include, but not be limited to, the following items: 
(a) 
Promoting consumer dignity, independence, self-determination, privacy, 
choice, and rights; including abuse and neglect prevention and reporting 
requirements; 
(b) 
Behavior management techniques; 
(c) 
Disaster and emergency procedures; and 
(d) 
Infection prevention and control. 
(3) 
All training shall be documented by the HCA. 
(a) 
Documentation of training shall include: the date of training; length of 
training; entity or instructor(s) that offered or produced the training; a 
short description of the content; and staff member's written or electronic 
signature or proof of attendance. 
6.7 
Initial and Comprehensive Assessments 
(A) 
Initial assessment visit 
(1) 
A registered nurse shall conduct an initial assessment visit to determine the 
immediate care and support needs of the consumer. The initial assessment visit

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
35 
shall be held either within forty-eight (48) hours of referral, or within forty-eight 
(48) hours of the consumer's return home, or on the ordered start-of-care date. 
(2) 
When an alternate professional healthcare service is the only service ordered, 
the initial assessment visit may be made by the appropriate healthcare 
professional. 
(3) 
The initial assessment visit and comprehensive assessment may be conducted 
during the same visit. 
(B) 
Comprehensive assessment of consumers 
(1) 
The HCA shall conduct an individualized comprehensive assessment that 
accurately reflects each consumer’s current health status and includes 
information that may be used to demonstrate the consumer’s progress toward 
achievement of the desired outcomes. 
(2) 
The comprehensive assessment shall identify the consumer’s need for home 
care and meet the consumer’s medical, nursing, rehabilitative, social, and 
discharge planning needs. 
(3) 
The comprehensive assessment shall be completed in a timely manner, 
consistent with the consumer's immediate needs, but no later than five (5) 
calendar days after the start of care. 
(4) 
Except as otherwise indicated in this section, a registered nurse shall complete 
the comprehensive assessment. 
(5) 
When healthcare services other than nursing are ordered by the physician or 
licensed independent practitioner, the primary professional healthcare worker 
shall complete the comprehensive assessment. 
(6) 
When nursing services are provided, the comprehensive assessment shall 
include a review of all medications the consumer is currently using in order to 
identify any potential adverse effects and drug reactions, including ineffective 
drug therapy, significant side effects, significant drug interactions, duplicate drug 
therapy, and noncompliance with drug therapy. 
(a) 
The HCA shall report any concerns to the attending physician or licensed 
independent practitioner and to the nursing or healthcare supervisor, and 
these reports shall be acted upon. 
(7) 
For consumers receiving intermittent respite and waiver services that are not 
provided within a continuous sixty (60) day period, a comprehensive assessment 
shall be accomplished before reinitiating services rather than the minimum time 
frames set forth below. 
(8) 
The comprehensive assessment shall be updated and revised as frequently as 
the consumer's condition warrants due to a major decline or improvement in the 
consumer's health status. At a minimum, it shall be updated and revised: 
(a) 
Every sixty (60) days beginning with the start-of-care date; and 
(b) 
Within forty-eight (48) hours of the consumer's return to the home from a 
hospital admission of twenty-four (24) hours or more, for any reason

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
36 
other than diagnostic tests or, for non-certified agencies, as ordered by 
the physician or licensed independent practitioner. 
(C) 
Provision of skilled services 
(1) 
The HCA shall have written policies regarding nurse delegation. The 
policy shall delineate what tasks or procedures may or may not be 
delegated, the delegation process, documentation, and how the delegate 
shall be supervised in accordance with 3 CCR 716-1, Nursing Rules and 
Regulations. If the HCA prohibits nurse delegation, the HCA shall have a 
policy that specifies such prohibition. 
6.8 
Plan of Care 
(A) 
Consumer care follow a written plan of care established and periodically reviewed by a 
physician or licensed independent practitioner. For PACE participants, the 
interdisciplinary team shall establish, follow, and periodically review the plan of care. 
(B) 
The plan of care shall be developed in consultation with the HCA personnel and covers 
all pertinent diagnoses, including mental status, types of services, identification of any 
services furnished by other providers, and how those services are coordinated, 
equipment required, frequency and duration of visits, prognosis, rehabilitation potential, 
functional limitations, activities permitted, instructions for timely discharge or referral, and 
any other appropriate items. 
(1) 
The plan of care shall identify the consumer’s continuing need for home care and 
meet the consumer’s medical, nursing, rehabilitative, social, and discharge 
planning needs. 
(2) 
The plan of care reflects the participation of the consumer to the extent possible. 
The HCA communicates the plan of care to the consumer or authorized 
representative in a comprehensible way. 
(C) 
If a physician or licensed independent practitioner refers a consumer under a plan of care 
that cannot be completed until after an evaluation visit, the attending physician or 
licensed independent practitioner shall be consulted to approve additions or modifications 
to the original plan. 
(D) 
Orders for therapy services shall include the specific procedures and modalities to be 
used and the amount, frequency, and duration. The therapist, other HCA personnel, and 
external home care providers, where applicable, shall participate in developing the plan 
of care. 
(E) 
The plan of care shall be reviewed in its entirety by the attending physician or licensed 
independent practitioner and HCA personnel as often as the severity of the consumer's 
condition requires, but at least once every sixty (60) days or more frequently when there 
is a significant change in condition. 
(1) 
For consumers receiving intermittent respite and waiver services that are not 
provided within a continuous sixty (60) day period, the time frame for review 
begins upon the re-initiation of care. 
(F) 
Licensed HCA personnel shall promptly alert the physician or licensed independent 
practitioner to any changes that suggest a need to alter the plan of care.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
37 
(G) 
If person-to-person contact with the physician or licensed independent practitioner or 
their designated representative was not completed or if awaiting a return response, all 
contacts and interactions shall be documented. The HCA shall have a written policy 
regarding how the HCA will intervene if the attending physician or licensed independent 
practitioner cannot be contacted or does not respond in a timely manner. 
(H) 
All orders shall contain sufficient information to carry out the order, name of the physician 
or licensed independent practitioner, and, if appropriate, representative conferring the 
order to the HCA. 
(I) 
Any program or service offered by the HCA, directly or under arrangement, shall be 
provided in accordance with the plan of care and HCA policy and procedure. 
6.9 
Medication Management 
(A) 
If the plan of care includes medication administration, medication management, or 
medication set-up, there shall be documentation in the consumer record as to who is 
responsible to monitor the medication supply, order refills, and ensure the timely delivery 
of medications. There shall be evidence that the plan has been developed with input from 
the consumer or authorized representative. 
(1) 
Medication review shall be documented when new medications are prescribed. 
(2) 
Medication review shall be documented periodically throughout the episode of 
care to determine if the consumer has added or eliminated medications or herbal 
products from the medication regime. 
(B) 
Drugs and treatments shall be administered by HCA personnel only as ordered by the 
physician or licensed independent practitioner and in accordance with professional 
standards of practice. 
(1) 
Vaccines may be administered per HCA policy, developed in consultation with a 
physician and after an assessment for contraindications. 
(2) 
For consumers receiving medication administration services, a current 
medication administration record shall be maintained as part of the consumer 
record. 
(3) 
The personnel administering medication(s) shall monitor for effectiveness, 
interactions, and adverse effects. 
(C) 
If controlled drugs are being administered by the HCA, there shall be a policy regarding 
how the drugs will be administered and monitored. 
(1) 
HCAs shall have a written policy stating how controlled drugs will be monitored if 
HCA personnel transport the drugs from the pharmacy to the consumer. 
6.10 
Care Coordination 
(A) 
Care coordination shall be demonstrated for each consumer at least every sixty (60) days 
for cases where there is more than one (1) agency sharing the provision of the same 
home health services. The minutes of these case conferences shall reflect discussion 
and input by all the disciplines providing care to the consumer.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
38 
(B) 
The HCA shall be responsible for the coordination of consumer services both with 
internal personnel and known external services providing care and services to the same 
consumer. 
(C) 
All personnel providing care on behalf of the HCA shall maintain communication to 
ensure that their efforts are coordinated effectively and support the objectives outlined in 
the plan of care and as delineated through outside home care services. 
(D) 
The clinical record, care coordination notes, or minutes of case conferences establish 
that effective interchange, reporting, and coordination of consumer care do occur. 
(E) 
The HCA shall prepare a written summary report which shall be sent to the attending 
primary care provider every sixty (60) days. This report is only required for consumers 
who experienced a change in status or needs that necessitated a change in the plan of 
care during the sixty (60)-day period. 
6.11 
Extended Care 
(A) 
Extended care is defined as a total of six (6) or more hours of home health services 
provided in a twenty-four (24)-hour period by a licensed agency that provides skilled 
health services on a continuous basis. 
(B) 
The HCA shall have a contingency plan regarding how the care is managed if the 
scheduled personnel cannot provide care. 
(C) 
A communication record shall also be available in the home if a consumer is receiving 
extended care. 
(1) 
The record shall contain: 
(a) 
The current plan of care; 
(b) 
Notes containing consumer status and continuing needs; 
(c) 
The medication administration record; and 
(d) 
Any other information deemed necessary by the HCA. 
(2) 
If nurse aide service is the only service providing extended care, a home 
communication record is not required. 
(a) 
Written instructions shall be maintained in the home and in the 
permanent record. 
(D) 
The HCA shall have an orientation plan for the personnel providing care to the 
consumers. Since extended care cases may involve highly technical services, this plan 
shall reflect how the HCA ensures that the individuals providing the extended care are 
qualified to provide these types of services. 
(E) 
Contracting for extended care services 
(1) 
A licensed HCA may contract with another entity to provide extended care in the 
licensed HCA’s service area provided that administration, care, and supervision 
down to the consumer care level are ultimately the responsibility of the primary 
HCA.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
39 
(2) 
The contract shall be in conformance with Part 5.9(F) of this chapter. 
(3) 
The contracted personnel shall have completed the HCA orientation and 
competency evaluation for provisions of care and services for the extended care 
consumer. 
(a) 
Documentation of personnel qualifications, orientation, and competency 
evaluation shall be kept at the primary HCA. 
(F) 
Prior to withdrawing skilled nursing or nurse aide services for an extended care 
consumer, the HCA shall: 
(1) 
Show continuing and documented efforts to resolve conflicts unless the safety of 
personnel is placed at immediate risk; 
(2) 
Provide evidence that ongoing efforts were made to recruit personnel or place 
the consumer with another HCA; and 
(3) 
Give the consumer or authorized representative fifteen (15)-business days' notice 
of the intent to discharge the consumer unless staff or consumer safety is at 
immediate risk. 
(a) 
The HCA shall maintain evidence that such notice was delivered in 
person or by certified mail. 
6.12 
Skilled Nursing Services 
(A) 
The registered nurse shall be responsible for the following: 
(1) 
Conducting the initial assessment and comprehensive assessment visit; 
(2) 
Regularly reevaluating the consumer's nursing needs; 
(3) 
Initiating the plan of care and necessary revisions; 
(4) 
Furnishing those services requiring substantial and specialized nursing skill; 
(5) 
Initiating appropriate preventive and rehabilitative nursing procedures; 
(6) 
Preparing clinical notes, coordinating services, and informing the physician and 
other personnel of changes in the consumer's condition and needs; 
(7) 
Counseling the consumer and family in meeting nursing and related needs; and 
(8) 
Participating in in-service programs, supervising, and teaching other nursing 
personnel. 
(B) 
The licensed practical nurse shall be responsible for the following: 
(1) 
Performing nursing services in accordance with their scope of practice and as 
assigned by the physician, licensed independent practitioner, and/or registered 
nurse; 
(2) 
Furnishing services in accordance with HCA policies;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
40 
(3) 
Preparing clinical notes; and 
(4) 
Assisting the consumer in learning appropriate self-care techniques. 
6.13 
Nurse Aide Services 
(A) 
The HCA shall select nurse aides on the basis of such factors as the ability to read, write, 
carry out directions, effectively communicate to demonstrate competency in the safe and 
effective provision of care and services, and treat consumers with dignity and respect to 
person and property. 
(B) 
The HCA shall ensure that each nurse aide it employs is certified by DORA within four (4) 
months of starting employment and that certification remains current. Each aide that 
provides care and services prior to certification shall be supervised in the home by direct 
observation at least weekly for the first month of employment and every two (2) weeks 
thereafter until certification is obtained. 
(1) 
HCAs that employ nurse aides awaiting certification shall do so in accordance 
with Section 12-255-214, C.R.S. 
(C) 
The HCA shall complete a competency assessment with direct observation of each nurse 
aide before assignment, in accordance with Part 6.13(E) of this chapter. 
(D) 
For all consumers who are receiving skilled care and need nurse aide services, the 
supervising healthcare professional shall, during supervisory visits, accomplish the 
following: 
(1) 
Obtain the consumer’s input, or that of the consumer’s authorized representative, 
regarding the nurse aide assignment form, including all tasks to be performed 
during each scheduled time period. 
(a) 
Details such as, but not limited to, housekeeping duties and standby 
assistance shall be negotiated and included on the nurse aide 
assignment form so that all obligations and expectations are clear. 
(b) 
The nurse aide assignment form shall contain information regarding 
special functional limitations and needs, safety considerations, special 
diets, special equipment, and any other information that is pertinent to 
the care that will be given by the nurse aide. 
(c) 
The HCA shall ensure that the consumer or the consumer’s authorized 
representative approves and signs the form and is provided a copy at the 
beginning of services, and at least annually. 
(d) 
Provide each consumer and/or the consumer’s authorized representative 
with a new copy of the consumer rights form and explain those rights at 
least annually. 
(e) 
If nurse aide services are provided to a consumer who is receiving in-
home care by a health professional, the supervising health care 
professional, in accordance with the professional’s scope of practice and 
state and federal law, shall make a supervisory visit no less than every 
two (2) weeks to supervise the nurse aide services. The visit shall be 
conducted either in the consumer’s home or via telehealth, in 
accordance with the requirements in Part 6.17(A)(1).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
41 
(i) 
Direct observation of care being provided by the nurse aide shall 
occur at least every sixty (60) days in the consumer’s home. 
(ii) 
More frequent direct supervision shall occur if there are adverse 
changes in the consumer’s condition, complaints received 
associated with the provision of care by a nurse aide, 
supervision requested by the nurse aide or consumer for specific 
issues, or other matters concerning the provisions of care by the 
nurse aide. 
(f) 
If nurse aide services are provided to a consumer who is not receiving in-
home care by a health professional, a supervisory visit with the nurse 
aide present at the consumer’s home shall occur no less frequently than 
every sixty (60) days. 
(i) 
More frequent direct supervision shall occur if there are adverse 
changes in the consumer’s condition, complaints received 
associated with the provision of care by a nurse aide, 
supervision requested by the nurse aide or consumer for specific 
issues, or other matters concerning the provisions of care by the 
nurse aide. 
(E) 
Nurse aide training and orientation 
(1) 
The HCA shall ensure that skills learned or tested elsewhere can be transferred 
successfully to the care of the consumer in their place of residence. This review 
of skills may be performed when the nurse installs an aide into a new consumer 
care situation, during a supervisory visit, or as part of the annual performance 
review. A pseudo-patient may be used for this evaluation. 
(2) 
If the HCA’s admission policies and the case-mix of HCA consumers demand 
that the nurse aide care for individuals whose personal care and basic nursing or 
therapy needs require more complex training than the minimum required in the 
regulation, the HCA shall document how these additional skills are taught and 
validated. 
(3) 
The HCA shall establish a process for standardized, step-by-step observation 
and evaluation of nurse aide competency in the following subject areas prior to 
the assignment of tasks requiring direct observation of items (c), (i), (j), and (k) of 
this paragraph (3). 
(a) 
Communications skills; 
(b) 
Observation, reporting, and documentation of consumer status and the 
care or service furnished; 
(c) 
Reading and recording temperature, pulse, and respiration; 
(d) 
Basic infection control procedures; 
(e) 
Basic elements of body functioning and changes in body function that 
shall be reported to a nurse aide’s supervisor; 
(f) 
Maintenance of a clean, safe, and healthy environment;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
42 
(g) 
Recognizing emergencies and knowledge of emergency procedures; 
(h) 
The physical, emotional, and developmental needs of, and methods to 
work with, the populations served by the HCA including the need for 
respect of the consumer, their privacy, and property; 
(i) 
Appropriate and safe techniques in personal hygiene and grooming that 
include: bathing, including bed/sponge, tub, and shower; shampoo, 
including sink, tub, and bed; nail and skin care; oral hygiene; and 
toileting and elimination; 
(j) 
Safe transfer techniques and ambulation; 
(k) 
Normal range of motion and positioning; and 
(l) 
Adequate nutrition and fluid intake. 
(4) 
Written assignment and instructions for the nurse aide shall be prepared by the 
registered nurse or other appropriate professional who is responsible for the 
supervision of the nurse aide. 
(a) 
The nurse aide shall be assigned and instructed to provide only those 
services the aide is permitted to perform under state law and deemed 
competent to perform. 
(b) 
The written assignment reflects the consumer’s plan of care orders. 
(c) 
The written instructions of the assignment shall consider the skills of the 
nurse aide, the amount and kind of supervision needed, and the specific 
nursing or therapy needs of the consumer. 
(i) 
The written instructions shall detail the procedures for the 
consumer’s unique care needs. 
(ii) 
The written instructions shall identify when the nurse aide should 
report to the supervising professional. 
(d) 
The written assignment and instructions shall be reviewed every sixty 
(60) days or more frequently as changes in the consumer’s status and 
needs occur. 
6.14 
Therapy Services 
(A) 
Any therapy services offered by the HCA, directly or under arrangement, shall be 
provided by a qualified therapist or by a qualified therapy assistant under the supervision 
of a qualified therapist and in accordance with the plan of care. 
(B) 
The qualified therapist shall assist the physician or licensed independent practitioner in 
evaluating level of function, help develop the plan of care (revising it as necessary), 
prepare clinical notes, advise and consult with the family and other agency personnel, 
and participate in in-service programs. 
(C) 
Supervision of therapy assistants

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
43 
(1) 
A physical therapist assistant, occupational therapy assistant, or respiratory 
therapy assistant performs services directed from a written plan of care, 
delegated and supervised by a qualified therapist, assists in preparing clinical 
notes and progress reports, participates in educating the consumer and family, 
and participates in in-service programs. 
6.15 
Medical Social Services 
(A) 
Any medical social services offered by the HCA, directly or under arrangement, shall be 
provided by a qualified social worker in accordance with the plan of care. 
(B) 
The social worker shall be responsible for the following: 
(1) 
Assisting the physician or licensed independent practitioner and other team 
members in understanding the significant social and emotional factors related to 
the health problems; 
(2) 
Participating in the development of the plan of care; 
(3) 
Preparing clinical notes; 
(4) 
Working with the family; 
(5) 
Connecting the consumer with appropriate community resources; 
(6) 
Participating in discharge planning and in-service programs; and 
(7) 
Acting as a consultant to other HCA personnel. 
6.16 
Other Healthcare Services 
(A) 
Any healthcare services offered by the HCA, directly or under arrangement, are given by 
a qualified healthcare professional or by a qualified healthcare professional assistant 
under the supervision of a qualified healthcare professional and in accordance with the 
plan of care. 
(B) 
The qualified healthcare professional assists the physician or licensed independent 
practitioner in evaluating the needs of the consumer, helps develop the plan of care 
(revising it as necessary), prepares clinical notes, advises and consults with the family 
and other agency personnel, and participates in in-service programs. 
(C) 
Supervision of assistants 
(1) 
An assistant to the healthcare professional performs services directed from a 
written plan of care, delegated and supervised by a qualified health professional, 
assists in preparing clinical notes and progress reports, participates in educating 
the consumer and family, and participates in in-service programs. 
6.17 
Telehealth Supervisory Visits 
(A) 
The HCA may conduct supervisory visits using telehealth for the following services, so 
long as the HCA continues to ensure consumer care and treatment are delivered in 
accordance with a plan of care that addresses the consumer’s status and needs.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
44 
(1) 
For nurse aide services, the supervising healthcare professional may evaluate 
the delivery of care and services required every two (2) weeks at Part 
6.13(D)(1)(e) through an interactive audiovisual connection with the consumer. 
The results of the supervisory visit must be documented by the supervising 
healthcare professional. 
(a) 
An in-person supervisory visit with the nurse aide and consumer is 
required at least every sixty (60) days if nurse aide services are provided 
to a consumer who is receiving in-home care by a nurse aide. 
(2) 
For therapy services, such as physical therapy, occupational therapy, and 
speech therapy, supervision of assistants required at Part 6.14(C) may be 
provided through an interactive audiovisual connection and in accordance with all 
applicable state laws and regulations. 
(a) 
An in-person supervisory visit shall occur in accordance with the HCA’s 
policies and procedures, the plan of care, and professional standards of 
practice. 
(3) 
For other healthcare services, supervision of assistants required at Part 6.16(C) 
may be provided through an interactive audiovisual connection and in 
accordance with all applicable state laws and regulations. 
(a) 
An in-person supervisory visit shall occur in accordance with the HCA's 
policies and procedures, the plan of care, and professional standards of 
practice. 
(B) 
An in-person supervisory visit is required to evaluate consumer complaints related to the 
delivery of care when such concerns cannot be successfully addressed remotely through 
an interactive audiovisual connection. 
(C) 
All other general requirements for supervisory visits, such as documentation and meeting 
the same standard of care, must be met. 
6.18 
Clinical Record 
(A) 
In addition to the requirements in Part 5.15, an HCA providing skilled care shall comply 
with the following requirements: 
(1) 
The initial and comprehensive assessments shall be documented in the 
consumer record and shall include the consumer's current comprehensive 
assessment, including all of the assessments from the most recent HCA 
admission, clinical notes, plans of care, and physician or licensed independent 
practitioner orders. 
(2) 
The record shall include all interventions, including medication administration, 
treatments, and services, and responses to those interventions. 
PART 7. 
NON-MEDICAL/PERSONAL CARE 
7.1 
Governing Body 
(A) 
An HCA may choose to convene a governing body that shall have legal authority and 
responsibility for the conduct of the HCA. If an HCA does not convene a governing body,

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
45 
the HCA shall designate an individual who shall have responsibility for all tasks as set 
forth in this Part 7.1. 
(B) 
At least one (1) member of the governing body or designee shall have knowledge of HCA 
operations. 
(C) 
For the purposes of this section, the governing body or designee shall: 
(1) 
Have bylaws or a governing document that shall specify the programs and 
services offered by the HCA and be reviewed and revised as needed; 
(2) 
Designate and employ an HCA manager; 
(3) 
Develop and adopt policies and procedures for the operation and administration 
of the HCA, to be reviewed annually and revised as needed; 
(4) 
Ensure any program or service offered by the HCA, directly or under 
arrangement, shall be provided in accordance with the service plan and HCA 
policy and procedure; 
(5) 
Review the operations of the HCA at least annually; 
(6) 
Keep minutes of all meetings; 
(7) 
Provide and maintain a fixed office location that provides for consumer 
confidentiality and a safe working environment; and 
(8) 
Organize services furnished, administrative control, and lines of authority for the 
delegation of responsibility down to the consumer care level that are clearly set 
forth in writing and are readily identifiable. 
(D) 
Agency Evaluation 
(1) 
The HCA's governing body or designee shall conduct a comprehensive 
evaluation of the HCA's total operation at least annually. 
(2) 
The evaluation shall assure the appropriateness and quality of the HCA’s 
services with findings used to verify policy implementation, to identify problems, 
and to establish problem resolution and policy revision as necessary, and shall 
include any findings or improvement strategies identified by the HCA’s Quality 
Management Program required in Part 5.12. 
(3) 
The HCA shall implement a method for ongoing process improvement and policy 
and administrative review, which includes a review of the scope of services 
offered, arrangements for services with other agencies or individuals, admission 
and discharge policies, supervision and service plan, urgent consumer care, 
service records, and personnel qualifications. 
(a) 
The HCA shall implement an on-going mechanism for consumer 
involvement to provide input and comment regarding services provided 
by the HCA in accordance with HCA policy. 
(b) 
All findings from the policy and administrative review and consumer input 
and commentary shall be provided to the governing body at least 
annually to identify trends or issues requiring consideration.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
46 
(4) 
In evaluating each aspect of its total program, the HCA shall consider four (4) 
main criteria: 
(a) 
Appropriateness - assurance that the area being evaluated addresses 
existing and/or potential problems. 
(b) 
Adequacy - a determination as to whether the HCA has the capacity to 
overcome or minimize existing or potential problems. 
(c) 
Effectiveness - the services offered accomplish the objectives of the 
HCA and anticipated consumer outcomes. 
(d) 
Efficiency - whether there is a minimal expenditure of resources by the 
HCA to achieve desired goals and anticipated consumer outcomes. 
(5) 
Documentation of the annual evaluation shall include the names and titles of the 
persons carrying out the evaluation, the criteria and methods used to accomplish 
it, and any action taken by the HCA as a result of its findings. 
(6) 
Appropriate qualified individuals representing the programs and services offered 
by the HCA shall evaluate the HCA's consumer records on an ongoing basis, but 
no less than quarterly. 
(a) 
The evaluation shall include a review of sample active and closed 
consumer records to ensure that HCA policies are followed in providing 
services, both directly and under arrangement, and to assure that the 
quality of service is satisfactory and appropriate. The review shall consist 
of a representative sample of all home care services provided by the 
HCA. 
7.2 
HCA Manager 
(A) 
The HCA's governing body or designee shall appoint an HCA manager to supervise the 
provision of the HCA’s services. 
(B) 
The HCA manager shall meet the following qualifications: 
(1) 
Be at least twenty-one (21) years of age, possess a high school diploma or GED, 
and have at least one (1) year documented supervisory experience in the 
provision of personal care services; 
(a) 
If the HCA manager does not have the required one (1) year of 
experience supervising the delivery of personal care services, they shall 
demonstrate they have the following: 
(i) 
A college degree in healthcare services plus at least one (1) year 
of work experience in health care during the previous ten (10)-
year period; or 
(ii) 
A college degree in any field plus two (2) years of work 
experience in health care during the previous ten (10)-year 
period.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
47 
(2) 
Be able to communicate and understand return communication effectively in 
exchanges between the consumer, family representatives, and other providers, 
including the use of appropriate translator services as needed; 
(3) 
Have successfully completed an eight (8) hour agency manager training course. 
Additional related annual training that equals twelve (12) hours shall be required 
in the first year and annually thereafter; 
(a) 
Any person commencing service as an HCA manager shall meet the 
minimum training requirements approved by the Department pursuant to 
Part 7.2(D) of this chapter or provide documented and confirmed 
previous job related experience or related education equivalent to 
successful completion of such program. The Department may require 
additional training to ensure that all the required components of the 
training curriculum are met. 
(b) 
A copy of the certificate of completion shall be retained in the HCA 
manager’s personnel file. 
(4) 
Be familiar with all applicable local, state, and federal laws and regulations 
concerning the operation and provision of home care services. 
(C) 
The HCA manager shall be responsible for ensuring: 
(1) 
The HCA is in compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local laws; 
(2) 
The completion, maintenance, and submission of reports and records as required 
by the Department; 
(3) 
Ongoing liaison with the governing body or designee, staff members, and the 
community; 
(4) 
Maintenance of a current organizational chart to show lines of authority down to 
the consumer level; 
(5) 
Maintenance of appropriate personnel, bookkeeping, and administrative records 
and policies and procedures of the HCA; 
(6) 
Orientation of new personnel, and regularly scheduled in-service education 
programs and opportunities for continuing education are provided for personnel; 
(7) 
Designating in writing the qualified staff member to act in the absence of the 
manager; 
(8) 
Availability of the manager or designee for all hours that personnel are providing 
services; 
(9) 
Marketing, advertising, and promotional information accurately represent the 
HCA and address the care, treatment, and services that the HCA can provide 
directly or through contractual arrangement; 
(10) 
Maintenance of a coordinated HCA-wide program for appropriate infection 
prevention and control that is an integral part of the HCA’s quality management 
program; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
48 
(11) 
The implementation and monitoring of the HCA’s training program for all 
homemakers and personal care workers, including managing or delegating 
employee training and development activities for the HCA. 
(D) 
An HCA manager training program shall be approved by the Department if: 
(1) 
The program or its components are conducted by an accredited college, 
university, or vocational school or by an organization, association, corporation, 
group, or agency with specific expertise in that area and the curriculum includes 
at least eight (8) actual hours of training. 
(2) 
Instruction includes, at a minimum, discussion of each of the following topics: 
(a) 
Home care overview including other agency types providing services and 
how to interact and coordinate, including limitations of personal care 
versus health care services; 
(b) 
Regulatory responsibilities and compliance, including: 
(i) 
Consumer rights, 
(ii) 
Governing body or designee responsibilities, 
(iii) 
Quality management plans, 
(iv) 
Occurrence reporting, and 
(v) 
Complaint investigation and resolution process; 
(c) 
Personnel qualifications, experience, competency and evaluations, staff 
training, and supervision; 
(d) 
Needs of the fragile, ill, and physically, cognitively, and/or 
developmentally disabled in the community setting regarding special 
training and staffing considerations; and 
(e) 
Behavior management techniques. 
7.3 
Homemaker 
(A) 
A homemaker shall complete training, in accordance with the following requirements, 
prior to providing services independently. 
(B) 
A homemaker must complete training as specified in Part 7.3(C) and pass a competency 
evaluation that includes a visual observation and evaluation of relevant skills, prior to 
providing care to a consumer. 
(1) 
If the HCA utilizes another entity to provide the training, the HCA must validate 
that the training program meets the requirements in Part 7.3(C) below and retain 
evidence of the individual’s successful completion of the training program in the 
personnel record. 
(C) 
Homemaker training

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
49 
(1) 
All homemaker staff shall complete HCA training before independently providing 
services to consumers. Initial training must be interactive in nature and may be 
completed through the following modes: in-person, online/virtual, or a hybrid, with 
demonstration of learned concepts. Initial training shall include: 
(a) 
Personnel duties and responsibilities, including but not limited to incident 
reporting and mandatory reporting; 
(b) 
Rules for non-medical care and services as described in this chapter; 
(c) 
The differences in homemaker and personal care; 
(d) 
Consumer rights, including freedom from abuse or neglect and 
confidentiality of personal, financial, and health information; 
(e) 
Basic health and safety, including but not limited to: home safety, fall 
prevention, hand washing, and infection control; 
(f) 
Assignment and supervision of services; 
(g) 
Communication skills; 
(h) 
The physical, emotional, and developmental needs of and methods to 
work with the populations served and assignment of consumers by the 
HCA, including the need for respect of the consumer, their privacy, and 
property; and 
(i) 
Training and core competency evaluation of homemaking and 
housekeeping skills shall be conducted before completion of initial 
training, including the evaluation of maintenance of a clean, safe, and 
healthy environment and the appropriate and safe techniques for each 
assigned task. 
(2) 
The HCA shall provide orientation for all personnel upon hire that includes, but is 
not limited to HCA policies and procedures and emergency response policies 
and emergency contact numbers for the HCA and for the individual consumer(s) 
assigned. 
(3) 
The HCA shall ensure that ongoing training of homemakers occurs and shall 
consist of at least four (4) training topics outlined in Part 7.3(C)(1) above every 
twelve (12) months after the starting date of employment or calendar year as 
designated by HCA policy. The training requirement shall be prorated in 
accordance with the number of months the employee was actively working for 
the HCA. 
(D) 
Homemakers shall provide services in accordance with the policies and requirements of 
the HCA as well as the service arrangements spelled out in the service plan. 
(E) 
The duties of a homemaker shall include the following: 
(1) 
Reporting any observed environmental concerns or changes in the consumer’s 
status that may impact the safety and security of the consumer to the HCA.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
50 
(2) 
Completion of appropriate service notes regarding service provision of each visit, 
to include confirmation of services provided and the date and time in and out. 
Such confirmation shall also be according to HCA policy. 
(F) 
The duties of a homemaker may include the following: 
(1) 
Routine light house cleaning, meal preparation, dishwashing, and bed making. 
Homemakers may also assist in teaching these tasks to the consumer. 
(a) 
Where meal preparation is provided in accordance with the service 
contract, the homemaker should receive instruction regarding any 
special diets required to be prepared. 
(2) 
Assistance in completing activities outside the home, such as shopping or 
laundry. 
(3) 
Companionship, including but not limited to: social interaction, conversation, 
emotional reassurance, encouragement of reading, writing, and activities that 
stimulate the mind. 
7.4 
Personal Care Worker 
(A) 
A personal care worker must meet all requirements in Part 7.3, Homemaker, in addition 
to the specific requirements for personal care workers outlined below, prior to providing 
services independently. 
(B) 
A personal care worker must complete training as specified in Part 7.4(C), personal care 
worker training, and pass a competency evaluation and skills validation, including visual 
observation, prior to providing care to a consumer. 
(C) 
Personal care worker training 
(1) 
Initial training shall include the topics identified in homemaker training at Part 
7.3(C)(1), in addition to the following: 
(a) 
The differences in personal care, nurse aide care, and health care in the 
home including limiting factors for the provision of personal care as 
specified in Part 7.4(E) below; 
(b) 
Observation, reporting, and documentation of consumer status and the 
service(s) furnished; 
(c) 
Non-medical assistance with activities of daily living, including bathing, 
skin care, hair care, nail care, mouth care, shaving, dressing, feeding, 
assistance with ambulation, exercises and transfers, positioning, bladder 
care, bowel care, and protective oversight; 
(d) 
Medication reminders; and 
(e) 
Performance of the ability to assist in the use of specific adaptive 
equipment if the worker will be assisting consumers who use the device. 
(2) 
The HCA shall provide orientation for all personnel upon hire that includes, but is 
not limited to, topics identified in homemaker orientation at 7.3(C)(2) and a 
description of the services provided by the HCA.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
51 
(3) 
The HCA is responsible for ensuring that the individuals who furnish personal 
care services on its behalf are competent to carry out all assigned tasks in the 
consumer’s place of residence. 
(a) 
Prior to assignment, the HCA manager or supervisor shall conduct a 
proof of competency evaluation involving the tasks listed in Part 
7.4(C)(1)(c), (d), and (e), along with any other tasks that require specific 
hands-on application. 
(4) 
The HCA shall ensure that ongoing supervisory and direct care staff training 
occurs and shall consist of at least six (6) topics every twelve (12) months after 
the starting date of employment or calendar year as designated by HCA policy. 
The training requirement shall be prorated in accordance with the number of 
months the employee was actively working for the HCA. Training shall include, 
but is not limited to, the following items: 
(a) 
Behavior management techniques and the promotion of consumer 
dignity, independence, self-determination, privacy, choice, and rights, 
including abuse and neglect prevention and reporting requirements. 
(b) 
Disaster and emergency procedures. 
(c) 
Infection control using universal precautions. 
(d) 
Basic first aid and home safety. 
(D) 
The duties of a personal care worker shall include all duties outlined in homemaker duties 
at Part 7.3(E), in addition to the following: 
(1) 
Observation and maintenance of the home environment in accordance with the 
service plan that ensures the safety and security of the consumer. 
(2) 
Reporting any observed or stated changes in the consumer’s physical, cognitive, 
and/or developmental status. 
(E) 
The duties of personal care worker may include all duties outlined in homemaker duties 
at Part 7.3(F), in addition to the following: 
(1) 
Assistance with non-medical activities of daily living, personal care, and any 
other assignments as included in the service plan. 
(F) 
Personal care worker tasks. The purpose of this part is to delineate the types of services 
that can be provided by a personal care worker. The following are examples of limitations 
where skilled home health care would be needed to meet higher needs of the consumer. 
(1) 
Skin care 
(a) 
A personal care worker may perform general skin care assistance. 
(b) 
A personal care worker may perform skin care only when skin is 
unbroken, and when any chronic skin problems are not active.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
52 
(c) 
The skin care provided by a personal care worker shall be preventative 
rather than therapeutic in nature and may include the application of non-
medicated lotions and solutions or of lotions and solutions not requiring a 
physician’s prescription. 
(d) 
Skilled skin care includes wound care other than basic first aid, dressing 
changes, application of prescription medications, skilled observation, and 
reporting. Skilled skin care should be provided by an HCA licensed to 
provide skilled home health services. 
(2) 
Ambulation 
(a) 
A personal care worker may generally assist consumers with ambulation 
if they have the ability to balance and bear weight. 
(b) 
If the health professional has determined that the consumer is 
independent with an assistive device, a personal services worker may be 
assigned to assist with ambulation. 
(3) 
Bathing 
(a) 
A personal care worker may assist consumers with bathing only if they 
have the ability to balance and bear weight, except when a transfer 
involves a lift device as described in Part 7.4(F)(13)(d). 
(b) 
When a consumer has skilled skin care needs or skilled dressings that 
will need attention before, during, or after bathing, the consumer should 
be in the care of an HCA licensed to provide skilled home health services 
for those needs. 
(4) 
Dressing 
(a) 
A personal care worker may assist a consumer with dressing. This may 
include assistance with ordinary clothing and application of support 
stockings, including ace bandages and anti-embolic or pressure 
stockings that can be purchased without a physician’s prescription. 
(b) 
A personal care worker that assists a consumer with application of any 
support stocking must receive training from a qualified individual in the 
stocking’s proper application. Prior to application and on an annual basis, 
the qualified individual shall conduct a proof of competency evaluation in 
the correct application of support stockings. 
(5) 
Exercise 
(a) 
A personal care worker may assist a consumer with exercise. However, 
this does not include assistance with a plan of exercise prescribed by a 
licensed health care professional. 
(b) 
A personal care worker may remind the consumer to perform ordered 
exercise. Assistance with exercise that can be performed by a personal 
care worker is limited to the encouragement of normal bodily movement, 
as tolerated, on the part of the consumer and encouragement with a 
prescribed exercise program.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
53 
(c) 
A personal care worker shall not perform passive range of motion. 
(6) 
Feeding 
(a) 
Assistance with feeding may generally be performed by a personal 
service worker. 
(b) 
Personal care workers can assist consumers with feeding when the 
consumer can independently chew and swallow without difficulty and be 
positioned upright. 
(c) 
Unless otherwise allowed by statute, assistance by a personal care 
worker does not include syringe, tube feedings, and intravenous 
nutrition. Whenever there is a high risk that the consumer may choke as 
a result of the feeding, the consumer should be in the care of an HCA 
licensed to provide skilled home health services. 
(7) 
Hair care 
(a) 
As a part of the broader set of services provided to consumers who are 
receiving personal services, personal care workers may assist 
consumers with the maintenance and appearance of their hair. 
(b) 
Hair care may include shampooing, drying, combing, and styling of hair. 
Medicated shampoo or shampoo that requires a physician’s prescription 
may not be used. 
(c) 
Over-the-counter medicated shampoos may be used as part of the 
broader set of services provided to the consumer, if the personal care 
worker has been trained by the agency in the proper use of the product. 
Prior to application and on an annual basis, a qualified individual shall 
conduct a proof of competency evaluation in the correct use of these 
products. 
(8) 
Mouth care 
(a) 
A personal care worker may assist and perform mouth care. This may 
include denture care and basic oral hygiene. 
(b) 
Mouth care for consumers who are unconscious, have difficulty 
swallowing, or are at risk for choking and aspiration shall be performed 
by an HCA licensed to provide skilled home health services. 
(9) 
Nail care 
(a) 
A personal care worker may assist generally with nail care. This 
assistance may include soaking of nails, pushing back cuticles without 
utensils, and filing of nails. 
(b) 
Assistance by a personal care worker shall not include nail trimming. 
(c) 
Consumers with a medical condition that might involve peripheral 
circulatory problems or loss of sensation shall be under the care of an 
HCA licensed to provide skilled home health services.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
54 
(10) 
Positioning 
(a) 
A personal care worker may assist a consumer with positioning when the 
consumer is able to identify to the personal care staff, verbally, non-
verbally, or through others, when the positions needs to be changed. 
(b) 
Positioning shall not exceed simple alignment in a bed, wheelchair, or 
other furniture. 
(c) 
A personal care worker may assist a skilled home health worker with a 
consumer’s positioning when any position change addresses skilled skin 
care concerns, as defined at Part 7.4(F)(1)(d). A personal care worker 
may not be assigned to or independently perform this function. 
(11) 
Shaving 
(a) 
A personal care worker may assist a consumer with shaving only with an 
electric or a safety razor. 
(12) 
Toileting 
(a) 
A personal care worker may assist a consumer to and from the 
bathroom; provide assistance with bedpans, urinals, and commodes; 
provide pericare; or change clothing and pads of any kind used for the 
care of incontinence. 
(b) 
A personal care worker may empty urinary collection devices, such as 
catheter bags. In all cases, the insertion and removal of catheters and 
care of external catheters is considered skilled care and shall not be 
performed by a personal care worker. 
(c) 
A personal care worker may empty ostomy bags and provide assistance 
with other consumer-directed ostomy care only when there is no need for 
skilled skin care or for observation or reporting to a nurse. A personal 
care worker shall not perform digital stimulation, insert suppositories, or 
give an enema. 
(13) 
Transfers 
(a) 
A personal care worker may assist with transfers only when the 
consumer has sufficient balance and strength to reliably stand and pivot 
and assist with the transfer to some extent. 
(b) 
Adaptive and safety equipment may be used in transfers, provided that 
the consumer and personal care worker are fully trained in the use of the 
equipment, and the consumer, consumer’s family member, or guardian 
can direct the transfer step by step. Adaptive equipment may include, but 
is not limited to wheel chairs, tub seats, and grab bars. 
(c) 
Gait belts may be used in a transfer as a safety device for the personal 
care worker as long as the worker has been properly trained in its use 
and as long as the consumer is able to assist with the transfer.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
55 
(d) 
A personal care worker shall not perform assistance with transfers when 
the consumer is unable to assist with the transfer. Personal care 
workers, with training and demonstrated competency, may assist a 
consumer in a transfer involving a lift device. 
(e) 
A personal care worker may assist the informal caregiver with 
transferring the consumer provided the consumer is able to direct and 
assist with the transfer. 
(14) 
Medication Assistance. The following requirements apply to all prescription and 
all over-the-counter medications: 
(a) 
Unless otherwise allowed by statute, a personal care worker may assist 
a consumer with medication only when the medications have been pre-
selected by the consumer, a family member, a nurse, or a pharmacist, 
and are stored in containers other than the prescription bottles, such as 
medication minders. 
(b) 
Medication minder containers shall be clearly marked as to day and time 
of dosage and reminding includes: inquiries as to whether medications 
were taken; verbal prompting to take medications; handing the 
appropriately marked medication minder container to the consumer; and, 
opening the appropriately marked medication minder container for the 
consumer if the consumer is physically unable to open the container. 
(c) 
Any irregularities noted in the pre-selected medications such as 
medications taken too often, not often enough, or not at the correct time 
as marked in the medication minder container, shall be reported 
immediately by the personal care worker to the supervisor. 
(15) 
Respiratory Care 
(a) 
Respiratory care is considered skilled care and shall not be performed by 
a personal care worker. Respiratory care includes postural drainage, 
cupping, adjusting oxygen flow within established parameters, nasal, 
endotracheal, and tracheal suctioning. 
(b) 
Personal care workers may temporarily remove and replace a cannula or 
mask from the consumer’s face for the purposes of shaving and/or 
washing a consumer’s face. 
(c) 
Personal care workers may set a consumer’s oxygen flow according to 
written instruction when changing tanks, provided the personal care 
worker has been specifically trained and demonstrated competency for 
this task. 
(16) 
Accompaniment 
(a) 
Accompanying the consumer to medical appointments, banking errands, 
basic household errands, clothes shopping, grocery shopping, or other 
excursions to the extent necessary and as specified on the service plan 
may be performed by the personal care worker when all the care that is 
provided by the personal care staff in relation to the trip is unskilled 
personal care, as described in these regulations.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
56 
(17) 
Protective oversight 
(a) 
A personal care worker may provide protective oversight including stand-
by assistance with any personal care task described in these regulations. 
(b) 
When the consumer requires protective oversight to prevent wandering, 
the personal care worker shall have been trained in appropriate 
intervention and redirection techniques. 
(18) 
Respite care 
(a) 
A personal care worker may provide respite care in the consumer’s 
home according to the service plan as long as the necessary provision of 
services during this time does not include skilled home health services 
as defined in Part 2.29 of this chapter. 
(G) 
In addition to the exclusions prescribed in the preceding section, the HCA shall not allow 
personal care workers to: 
(1) 
Perform skilled home health services as defined in Part 2.29 of this chapter; 
(2) 
Perform or provide medication set-up for a consumer; or 
(3) 
Perform other actions specifically prohibited by HCA policy, regulations, or law. 
7.5 
Training Exemptions 
(A) 
Initial orientation or training shall not be required under the following circumstances: 
(1) 
A returning employee is exempt from initial training if they are returning to the 
same HCA within one (1) year of leaving, and meet all of the following conditions: 
(a) 
The employee completed the HCA’s required training and competency 
assessment at the time of initial employment; 
(b) 
The employee successfully completed the HCA’s required competency 
assessment at the time of rehire or reactivation; 
(c) 
The employee did not have performance issues directly related to 
consumer care and services in the prior active period of employment; 
and 
(d) 
All orientation, training, and personnel action documentation from the 
prior active period of employment is retained in the personnel files. 
(2) 
An employee moving from one office to another in the same HCA if previous 
training is documented and the offices have the same orientation and training 
procedures. 
(a) 
Evidence of completed initial orientation and training and competency 
evaluation must be maintained by each separately licensed HCA.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
57 
(3) 
A personal care worker with proof of current healthcare related licensure or 
certification is exempt from initial training in the provision of personal care tasks if 
such training is recognized as included in the training for that health discipline. 
The HCA shall provide orientation and perform a competency evaluation to 
ensure the personal care worker is able to differentiate and appropriately perform 
all personal care worker tasks. 
7.6 
Training, Competency, and Skills Validation Documentation 
(A) 
All training, competency, and skills validation shall be documented by the HCA. 
(1) 
Documented evidence of trainings, competency testing, and skills validation shall 
be documented with the date of training; length of training; entity or instructor(s) 
that offered or produced the training; a short description of the content; and staff 
member's written or electronic signature or proof of attendance. 
(2) 
The HCA shall maintain evidence of training, competency testing, skills 
validation, and related certificates along with proof of completion in each 
individual’s personnel file. 
7.7 
Supervisor of Homemakers and Personal Care Workers 
(A) 
The supervisor shall: 
(1) 
Be at least eighteen (18) years of age; 
(2) 
Have appropriate experience or training in the home care industry or closely 
related personal care services in accordance with HCA policy; and 
(3) 
Have completed training in the provision of personal care services. 
7.8 
Supervision of Homemakers and Personal Care Workers 
(A) 
Supervision of a homemaker or personal care worker shall: 
(1) 
Be performed by an employee of the HCA qualified as a supervisor under Part 
7.7, who is in a designated supervisory capacity and available to the worker at all 
times care and services are being provided; 
(2) 
Occur at a minimum of every three (3) months and must include an assessment 
of consumer satisfaction with services and the worker’s competence and 
adherence to the service plan. 
(a) 
Supervision shall be conducted either in person or via telehealth, in 
accordance with Telehealth Supervisory Visits at Part 7.9(A)(1); and 
(3) 
Occur, in person, annually for evaluation of each worker providing services in a 
consumer’s home and shall include observation of tasks performed and 
relationship with the consumer. 
(B) 
Evidence of all supervisory activities must be documented and retained in the consumer’s 
record. Documentation shall include: 
(1) 
The date, time, method of delivery, and location of the supervisory activity along 
with documentation of persons present;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
58 
(2) 
Specific tasks evaluated and/or observed along with outcome; and 
(3) 
Information on any re-training, instruction, or other support provided during the 
supervisory activity. 
(C) 
An in-person supervisory visit is required to evaluate consumer complaints related to the 
delivery of care by staff when such concerns cannot be successfully addressed remotely 
through an interactive audiovisual connection. 
7.9 
Telehealth Supervisory Visits 
(A) 
With the exception of the annual supervision requirement in Part 7.8(A)(3) and 
responding to consumer complaints in Part 7.8(C), The HCA may conduct supervisory 
visits using telehealth, so long as the HCA continues to ensure consumer care and 
treatment are delivered in accordance with the service plan that addresses the 
consumer’s status and needs. 
(1) 
The designated supervisor may evaluate the delivery of care and services 
required every three (3) months at Part 7.8(A)(2) through an interactive 
audiovisual connection with the homemaker or personal care worker and 
consumer. The results of the supervisory visit must be documented by the 
qualified employee. 
(B) 
All other general requirements for supervisory visits, such as documentation and meeting 
the same standard of care, must be met. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
6 CCR 1011-1 has been divided into separate chapters for ease of use. Versions prior to 05/01/2009 are 
located in the main section, 6 CCR 1011-1. Prior versions can be accessed from the All Versions list on 
the rule’s current version page. To view versions effective on or after 05/01/2009, select the desired 
chapter, for example 6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 04 or 6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 18. 
History 
Chapter 26 entire rule eff. 04/30/2009. 
Rules 5.2(A), 5.2(f), 5.4.7(A), 5.4.8 (A) eff. 07/30/2010. 
Rule 5.4.8 eff. 09/30/2011. 
Rule 5.4 eff. 03/01/2012. 
Rules 5.4.4-5.4.7 eff. 03/02/2014. 
Rule 5.4.3 eff. 08/14/2014. 
Rules 3.6, 3.15-3.28, 5.1(B)-5.1(B)(1), 7.8(B)(1), 7.8(C)(2)-7.8(C)(3), 7.9(A)(1)-7.9(A)(2), 7.9(B)(6)-
7.9(B)(7)(b), 7.10(A), 7.10(C)(1), 7.12(A), 7.12(E), 7.13, 8.5(B)(1), 8.5(D)(20), 8.5(E)(1) eff. 
09/14/2014. 
Rules 3.6, 3.11(B)(8)-3.32, 4.1-4.8(B)(2), 5.2(D), 6.3, 6.7(B) eff. 06/14/2014. 
Rules 5.1-5.1(B)(1)(b), 8.5(D)(17)(a), 8.5(D)(17)(b), 8.5(D)(20), 8.5(E)(1) eff. 05/15/2016. 
Rule 5.1(A) eff. 01/14/2017. Rule 8.5(B)(1) repealed eff. 01/14/2017. 
Rules 5.4.6(A), 5.4.7(A), 6.10(A), 6.14(A) eff. 01/14/2020. 
Entire rule eff. 02/14/2022. 
Rule 3.8(A)(5) eff. 06/14/2024. 
Rules 3.8(A)(1), 4.4 eff. 07/01/2024.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1011-1 Chapter 26 
Health Facilities and Emergency Medical Services Division 
 
59 
Rules 3.8(A)(1), 4.4-4.10 eff. 07/01/2025.
