---
id: "6_CCR_1007-3"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "6 CCR 1007-3"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=8040&fileName=6%20CCR%201007-3%20Part%20279&type=pdf"
---

#### 6_CCR_1007-3. 6 CCR 1007-3

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
Solid and Hazardous Waste Commission/Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
HAZARDOUS WASTE - STANDARDS FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF USED OIL 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Subpart A - Definitions 
Sec. 
§279.1 Definitions. 
Subpart B - Applicability 
§279.10 
Applicability. 
§279.11 
Used oil specifications. 
§279.12 
Prohibitions. 
Subpart C - Standards for Used Oil Generators 
§279.20 
Applicability. 
§279.21 
Hazardous waste mixing. 
§279.22 
Used oil storage. 
§279.23 
On-site burning in space heaters. 
§279.24 
Off-site shipments. 
Subpart D - Standards for Used Oil Collection Centers and Aggregation Points 
§279.30 
Do-it-yourselfer used oil collection centers. 
§279.31 
Used oil collection centers. 
§279.32 
Used oil aggregate points owned by the generator. 
Subpart E - Standards for Used Oil Transporter and Transfer Facilities 
§279.40 
Applicability. 
§279.41 
Restrictions on transporters who are not also processors or re-refine 
§279.42 
Notification, 
§279.43 
Used oil transportation. 
§279.44 
Rebuttable presumption for used oil. 
§279.45 
Used oil storage at transfer facilities. 
§279.46 
Tracking. 
§279.47 
Management of residues. 
Subpart F - Standards for Used Oil Processors and Re-Refiners 
§279.50 
Applicability. 
§279.51 
Notification. 
§279.52 
General facility standards. 
§279.53 
Rebuttable presumption for used oil. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
2 
§279.34 
Used oil management. 
§279.55 
Analysis plan. 
§279.56 
Tracking. 
§279.57 
Operating record and reporting. 
§279.58 
Off-site shipments of used oil. 
§279.59 
Management of residues. 
Subpart G - Standards for Used Oil Burners Who Burn Off-Specification Used Oil for Energy 
Recovery 
§279.60 
Applicability. 
§279.61 
Restriction on burning. 
§279.62 
Notification. 
§279.63 
Rebuttable presumption for used oil. 
§279.64 
Used oil storage. 
§279.65 
Tracking. 
§279.66 
Notices. 
§279.67 
Management of residues. 
Subpart H - Standards for Used Oil Fuel Marketers 
§279.70 
Applicability. 
§279.71 
Prohibitions. 
§279.72 
On-specification used oil fuel. 
§279.73 
Notification. 
§279.74 
Tracking. 
§279.75 
Notices. 
Subpart I - Standards for Disposal of Used Oil 
§279.80 
Applicability. 
§279.81 
Disposal. 
Subpart A - Definitions 
§ 279.1 Definitions. 
Terms that are defined in §§ 260.10 and 261.1 of these regulations, and 40 CFR § 280.12 have the same 
meanings when used in this part. 
Aboveground tank means a tank used to store or process used oil that is not an underground storage 
tank as defined in 40 CFR § 280.12. 
Container means any portable device in which a material is stored, transported, treated, disposed of, or 
otherwise handled. 
Do-it-yourselfer used oil collection center means any site or facility that accepts/aggregates and 
stores used oil collected only from household do-it-yourselfers.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
3 
Existing tank means a tank that is used for the storage or processing of used oil and that is in operation, 
or for which installation has commenced on or prior to the effective date of these regulations. Installation 
will be considered to have commenced if the owner or operator has obtained all federal, state, and local 
approvals or permits necessary to begin installation of the tank and if either (1) A continuous on-site 
installation program has begun, or (2) The owner or operator has entered into contractual obligations-
which cannot be canceled or modified without substantial loss-for installation of the tank to be completed 
within a reasonable time. 
Household “do-it-yourselfer” used oil means oil that is derived from households, such as used oil 
generated by individuals who generate used oil through the maintenance of their personal vehicles. 
Household “do-it-yourselfer” used oil generator means an individual who generates household “do-it-
yourselfer” used oil. 
New tank means a tank that will be used to store or process used oil and for which installation has 
commenced after the effective date of these regulations. 
Petroleum refining facility means an establishment primarily engaged in producing gasoline, kerosene, 
distillate fuel oils, residual fuel oils, and lubricants, through fractionation, straight distillation of crude oil, 
redistillation of unfinished petroleum derivatives, cracking or other processes (i.e. facilities classified as 
SIC 2911). 
Processing means chemical or physical operations designed to produce from used oil, or to make used 
oil more amenable for production of, fuel oils, lubricants, or other used oil-derived product. Processing 
includes, but is not limited to: blending used oil with virgin petroleum products, blending used oils to meet 
the fuel specification, filtration, simple distillation, chemical or physical separation and re-refining. 
Re-refining distillation bottoms means the heavy fraction produced by vacuum distillation of filtered and 
dehydrated used oil. The composition of still bottoms varies with column operation and feedstock. 
Tank means any stationary device, designed to contain an accumulation of used oil which is constructed 
primarily of non-earthen materials, (e.g., wood, concrete, steel, plastic) which provides structural support. 
Used oil means any oil that has been refined from crude oil, or any synthetic oil, that has been used and 
as a result of such use is contaminated by physical or chemical impurities. 
Used oil aggregation point means any site or facility that accepts, aggregates, and/or stores used oil 
collected only from other used oil generation sites owned or operated by the owner or operator of the 
aggregation point, from which used oil is transported to the aggregation point in shipments of no more 
than 55 gallons. Used oil aggregation points may also accept used oil from household do-it-yourselfers. 
Used oil burner means a facility where used oil not meeting the specification requirements in § 279.11 is 
burned for energy recovery in devices identified in § 279.61(a). 
Used oil collection center means any site or facility that has notified the Department as a used oil 
collection center and has received an EPA identification number to manage used oil and 
accepts/aggregates and stores used oil collected from used oil generators regulated under Subpart C of 
this part who bring used oil to the collection center in shipments of no more than 55 gallons under the 
provisions of § 279.24. Used oil collection centers may also accept used oil from household do-it-
yourselfers. A used oil collection center that has not received an EPA identification number may obtain 
one by applying to the Department using EPA Form 8700-12. Upon receiving the request, the Department 
will forward an EPA identification number to the facility. A used oil collection center that has already 
received an EPA Identification Number for another purpose must submit a revised notification per the 
requirements of Part 99 of these regulations.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
4 
Used oil fuel marketer means any person who conducts either of the following activities: 
(1) 
Directs a shipment of off-specification used oil from their facility to a used oil burner, or 
(2) 
First claims that used oil that is to be burned for energy recovery meets the used oil fuel 
specifications set forth in § 279.11 of this part. 
Used oil generator means any person, by site, whose act or process produces used oil or whose act first 
causes used oil to become subject to regulation. 
Used oil processor/re-refiner means a facility that processes used oil. 
Used oil transfer facility means any transportation related facility including loading docks, parking 
areas, storage areas and other areas where shipments of used oil are held for more than 24 hours and 
not longer than 35 days during the normal course of transportation or prior to an activity performed 
pursuant to § 279.20(b)(2). Transfer facilities that store used oil for more than 35 days are subject to 
regulation under Subpart F of this part. 
Used oil transporter means any person who transports used oil, any person who collects used oil from 
more than one generator and transports the collected oil, and owners and operators of used oil transfer 
facilities. Used oil transporters may consolidate or aggregate loads of used oil for purposes of 
transportation but, with the following exception, may not process used oil. Transporters may conduct 
incidental processing operations that occur in the normal course of used oil transportation (e.g., settling 
and water separation), but that are not designed to produce (or make more amenable for production of) 
used oil derived products or used oil fuel. 
Subpart B - Applicability 
§ 279.10 
Applicability. 
This section identifies those materials which are subject to regulation as used oil under this part. This 
section also identifies some materials that are not subject to regulation as used oil under this part, and 
indicates whether these materials may be subject to regulation as hazardous waste under Parts 260 
through 268, and Part 100 of these regulations. 
(a) 
Used oil. EPA presumes that used oil is to be recycled unless a used oil handler disposes of 
used oil, or sends used oil for disposal. Except as provided in § 279.11, the regulations of this 
part apply to used oil, and to materials identified in this section as being subject to regulation as 
used oil, whether or not the used oil or material exhibits any characteristics of hazardous waste 
identified in Subpart C of Part 261 of these regulations. 
(b) 
Mixtures of used oil and hazardous waste 
(1) 
Listed hazardous waste. 
(i) 
Mixtures of used oil and hazardous waste that is listed in Subpart D of Part 261 
of these regulations are subject to regulation as hazardous waste under Parts 
260 through 268, and Part 100 of these regulations, rather than as used oil under 
this part.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
5 
(ii) 
Rebuttable presumption for used oil. Used oil containing more than 1,000 ppm 
total halogens is presumed to be a hazardous waste because it has been mixed 
with halogenated hazardous waste listed in Subpart D of Part 261 of these 
regulations. Persons may rebut this presumption by demonstrating that the used 
oil does not contain hazardous waste (for example, by showing that the used oil 
does not contain significant concentrations of halogenated hazardous 
constituents listed in Appendix VIII of Part 261 of these regulations). 
(A) 
The rebuttable presumption does not apply to metalworking oils/fluids 
containing chlorinated paraffins, if they are processed, through a tolling 
arrangement as described in § 279.24(c), to reclaim metalworking 
oils/fluids. The presumption does apply to metalworking oils/fluids if such 
oils/fluids are recycled in any other manner, or disposed. 
(B) 
The rebuttable presumption does not apply to used oils contaminated 
with chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) removed from refrigeration units where 
the CFCs are destined for reclamation. The rebuttable presumption does 
apply to used oils contaminated with CFCs that have been mixed with 
used oil from sources other than refrigeration units. 
(2) 
Characteristic hazardous waste. 
(i) 
Mixtures of used oil and hazardous waste that solely exhibit one or more of the 
hazardous waste characteristics identified in Subpart C of Part 261 of these 
regulations and mixtures of used oil and hazardous waste that is listed in Subpart 
D solely because it exhibits one or more of the characteristics of hazardous 
waste identified in Subpart C are subject to: 
(A) 
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C) of this section, regulation as 
hazardous waste under Parts 260 through 268, and Part 100 of these 
regulations rather than as used oil under this part, if the resultant mixture 
exhibits any characteristics of hazardous waste identified in Subpart C of 
Part 261 of these regulations; or 
(B) 
Regulation as used oil under this part, if the resultant mixture does not 
exhibit any characteristics of hazardous waste identified under Subpart C 
of Part 261 of these regulations. 
(C) 
Regulation as used oil under this part, if the mixture is of used oil and a 
waste which is hazardous solely because it exhibits the characteristic of 
ignitability (e.g., ignitable-only mineral spirits), provided that the resultant 
mixture does not exhibit the characteristic of ignitability under § 261.21 of 
these regulations. 
(ii) 
The mixing of used oil and a hazardous waste that solely exhibits one or more of 
the hazardous waste characteristics identified in Subpart C of Part 261 of these 
regulations or the mixing of used oil and a hazardous waste that is listed in 
Subpart D of Part 261 of these regulations solely because it exhibits one or more 
of the characteristics of hazardous waste identified in Subpart C for the purpose 
of managing the resultant mixture as a used oil constitutes treatment of a 
hazardous waste and is subject to Part 100 of these regulations. 
(3) 
Reserved.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
6 
(c) 
Materials containing or otherwise contaminated with used oil. 
(1) 
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, materials containing or otherwise 
contaminated with used oil from which the used oil has been properly drained or removed 
to the extent possible such that no visible signs of free-flowing oil remain in or on the 
material: 
(i) 
Are not used oil and thus not subject to this part, and 
(ii) 
If applicable are subject to the hazardous waste regulations of Parts 260 through 
268, and Part 100 of these regulations. 
(2) 
Materials containing or otherwise contaminated with used oil that are burned for energy 
recovery are subject to regulation as used oil under this part. 
(3) 
Used oil drained or removed from materials containing or otherwise contaminated with 
used oil is subject to regulation as used oil under this part. 
(d) 
Mixtures of used oil with products. 
(1) 
Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, mixtures of used oil and fuels or 
other fuel products are subject to regulation as used oil under this part. 
(2) 
Mixtures of used oil and diesel fuel mixed on-site by the generator of the used oil for use 
in the generator's own vehicles are not subject to this part once the used oil and diesel 
fuel have been mixed. Prior to mixing, the used oil is subject to the requirements of 
Subpart C of this part. 
(e) 
Materials derived from used oil. 
(1) 
Materials that are reclaimed from used oil that are used beneficially and are not burned 
for energy recovery or used in a manner constituting disposal (e.g., re-refined lubricants) 
are: 
(i) 
Not used oil and thus are not subject to this part, and 
(ii) 
Not solid wastes and are thus not subject to the hazardous waste regulations of 
Parts 260 through 268, and Part 100 of these regulations as provided in § 
261.3(c)(2)(i) of these regulations. 
(2) 
Materials produced from used oil that are burned for energy recovery (e.g., used oil fuels) 
are subject to regulation as used oil under this part. 
(3) 
Except as provided in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, materials derived from used oil 
that are disposed of or used in a manner constituting disposal are: 
(i) 
Not used oil and thus are not subject to this part, and 
(ii) 
Are solid wastes and thus are subject to the hazardous waste regulations of 
Parts 260 through 268, and Part 100 of these regulations if the materials are 
listed or identified as hazardous wastes. 
(4) 
Used oil re-refining distillation bottoms that are used as feedstock to manufacture asphalt 
products are not subject to this part.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
7 
(f) 
Wastewater. Wastewater, the discharge of which is subject to regulation under either Section 
402 or Section 307(b) of the Clean Water Act (including wastewaters at facilities which have 
eliminated the discharge of wastewater), contaminated with de minimis quantities of used oil are 
not subject to the requirements of this part. For purposes of this paragraph, “de minimis” 
quantities of used oils are defined as small spills, leaks, or drippings from pumps, machinery, 
pipes, and other similar equipment during normal operations or small amounts of oil lost to the 
wastewater treatment system during washing or draining operations. This exception will not apply 
if the used oil is discarded as a result of abnormal manufacturing operations resulting in 
substantial leaks, spills, or other releases, or to used oil recovered from wastewaters. 
(g) 
Used oil introduced into crude oil pipelines or a petroleum refining facility. 
(1) 
Used oil mixed with crude oil or natural gas liquids (e.g., in a production separator or 
crude oil stock tank) for insertion into a crude oil pipeline is exempt from the requirements 
of this part. The used oil is subject to the requirements of this part prior to the mixing of 
used oil with crude oil or natural gas liquids. 
(2) 
Mixtures of used oil and crude oil or natural gas liquids containing less than 1% used oil 
that are being stored or transported to a crude oil pipeline or petroleum refining facility for 
insertion into the refining process at a point prior to crude distillation or catalytic cracking 
are exempt from the requirements of this part. 
(3) 
Used oil that is inserted into the petroleum refining facility process before crude 
distillation or catalytic cracking without prior mixing with crude oil is exempt from the 
requirements of this part provided that the used oil constitutes less than 1% of the crude 
oil feed to any petroleum refining facility process unit at any given time. Prior to insertion 
into the petroleum refining facility process, the used oil is subject to the requirements of 
this part. 
(4) 
Except as provided in paragraph (g)(5) of this section, used oil that is introduced into a 
petroleum refining facility process after crude distillation or catalytic cracking is exempt 
from the requirements of this part only if the used oil meets the specification of § 279.11. 
Prior to insertion into the petroleum refining facility process, the used oil is subject to the 
requirements of this part. 
(5) 
Used oil that is incidentally captured by a hydrocarbon recovery system or wastewater 
treatment system as part of routine process operations at a petroleum refining facility and 
inserted into the petroleum refining facility process is exempt from the requirements of 
this part. This exemption does not extend to used oil which is intentionally introduced into 
a hydrocarbon recovery system (e.g., by pouring collected used oil into the wastewater 
treatment system). 
(6) 
Tank bottoms from stock tanks containing exempt mixtures of used oil and crude oil or 
natural gas liquids are exempt from the requirements of this part. 
(h) 
Used oil on vessels. Used oil produced on vessels from normal shipboard operations is not 
subject to this part until it is transported ashore.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
8 
(i) 
Used oil containing PCBs. Used oil containing PCBs (as defined at 40 CFR § 761.3) at any 
concentration less than 50 ppm is subject to the requirements of Part 279 unless, because of 
dilution, it is regulated under 40 CFR Part 761 as a used oil containing PCBs at 50 ppm or 
greater. PCB-containing used oil subject to the requirements of Part 279 may also be subject to 
the prohibitions and requirements found at 40 CFR Part 761, including § 761.20(d) and (e). Used 
oil containing PCBs at concentrations of 50 ppm or greater is not subject to the requirements of 
Part 279, but is subject to regulation under 40 CFR Part 761. No person may avoid these 
provisions by diluting used oil containing PCBs, unless otherwise specifically provided for in this 
Part 279 or 40 CFR Part 761. 40 CFR part 761 is incorporated by reference to include those 
versions in effect as of the date this regulation was adopted, and does not include later 
amendments to the incorporated material. Materials incorporated by reference are available for 
public inspection during normal business hours from the Hazardous Materials and Waste 
Management Division, 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, CO 80246. Copies may also be 
found at the Environmental Protection Agency through the Government Printing Office at 
https://www.govinfo.gov/app/collection/cfr/ 
§ 279.11 
Used oil specifications. 
Used oil burned for energy recovery, and any fuel produced from used oil by processing, blending, or 
other treatment, is subject to regulation under this part unless it is shown not to exceed any of the 
allowable levels of the constituents and properties shown in Table 1. Once used oil that is to be burned 
for energy recovery has been shown not to exceed any allowable level and the person making that 
showing complies with §§ 279.72, 279.73, and 279.74(b), the used oil is no longer subject to this part. 
Table 1 - Used Oil Not Exceeding Any Allowable Level Shown Below Is Not Subject to this Part 
When Burned for Energy Recovery{1} 
 
Constituent/property 
Allowable level 
Arsenic 
5 ppm maximum. 
Cadmium 
2 ppm maximum. 
Chromium 
10 ppm maximum. 
Lead 
100 ppm maximum. 
Flash point 
100 °F minimum. 
Total Halogens 
4,000 ppm maximum.{2} 
{1} The allowable levels do not apply to mixtures of used oil and hazardous waste that continue to be 
regulated as hazardous waste (see § 279.10(b)). 
{2} Used oil containing more than 1,000 ppm total halogens is presumed to be a hazardous waste under 
the rebuttable presumption provided under § 279.10(b)(1). Such used oil is subject to Subpart D of Part 
267 of these regulations rather than this part when burned for energy recovery unless the presumption of 
mixing can be successfully rebutted. 
Note: Applicable standards for the burning of used oil containing PCBs are imposed by 40 CFR § 
761.20(e).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
9 
§ 279.12 
Prohibitions. 
(a) 
Surface impoundment prohibition. Used oil shall not be managed in surface impoundments or 
waste piles unless the units are subject to regulation under Part 264 or 265 of these regulations. 
(b) 
Use as a dust suppressant. The use of used oil as a dust suppressant is prohibited, unless and 
until such time as the Commission has adopted management rules to prevent the use of used 
oil/hazardous waste mixtures or used oil exhibiting a characteristic other than ignitability as a dust 
suppressant, and to minimize the impacts of its use as a dust suppressant on the environment, 
and Colorado chooses to and successfully petitions EPA for approval of such use pursuant to 40 
CFR § 279.82(b). 
(c) 
Burning in particular units. Off-specification used oil fuel may be burned for energy recovery in 
only the following devices: 
(1) 
Industrial furnaces identified in § 260.10 of these regulations; 
(2) 
Boilers, as defined in § 260.10 of these regulations, that are identified as follows: 
(i) 
Industrial boilers located on the site of a facility engaged in a manufacturing 
process where substances are transformed into new products, including the 
component parts of products, by mechanical or chemical processes; 
(ii) 
Utility boilers used to produce electric power, steam, heated or cooled air, or 
other gases or fluids for sale; or 
(iii) 
Used oil-fired space heaters provided that the burner meets the provisions of § 
279.23. 
(3) 
Hazardous waste incinerators subject to regulation under Subpart O of Part 264 or Part 
265 of these regulations. 
Subpart C - Standards for Used Oil Generators 
§ 279.20 
Applicability. 
(a) 
General. Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section, this subpart 
applies to all used oil generators. A used oil generator is any person, by site, whose act or 
process produces used oil or whose act first causes used oil to become subject to regulation. 
(1) 
Household “do-it-yourselfer” used oil generators. Household “do-it-yourselfer” used oil 
generators are not subject to regulation under this part. 
(2) 
Vessels. Vessels at sea or at port are not subject to this subpart. For purposes of this 
subpart, used oil produced on vessels from normal shipboard operations is considered to 
be generated at the time it is transported ashore. The owner or operator of the vessel and 
the person(s) removing or accepting used oil from the vessel are co-generators of the 
used oil and are both responsible for managing the waste in compliance with this subpart 
once the used oil is transported ashore. The co-generators may decide among them 
which party will fulfill the requirements of this subpart. 
(3) 
Diesel fuel. Mixtures of used oil and diesel fuel mixed by the generator of the used oil for 
use in the generator's own vehicles are not subject to this part once the used oil and 
diesel fuel have been mixed. Prior to mixing, the used oil fuel is subject to the 
requirements of this subpart.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
10 
(4) 
Farmers. Farmers who generate an average of 25 gallons per month or less of used oil 
from vehicles or machinery used on the farm in a calendar year are not subject to the 
requirements of this part. 
(b) 
Other applicable provisions. Used oil generators who conduct the following activities are subject 
to the requirements of other applicable provisions of this part as indicated in paragraphs (b)(1) 
through (5) of this section: 
(1) 
Generators who transport used oil, except under the self-transport provisions of § 
279.24(a) and (b), must also comply with Subpart E of this part. 
(2) 
(i) 
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, generators who process 
or re-refine used oil must also comply with Subpart F of this part. 
(ii) 
Generators who perform the following activities are not processors provided that 
the used oil is generated on-site and is not being sent off-site to a burner of on- 
or off-specification used oil fuel. 
(A) 
Filtering, cleaning, or otherwise reconditioning used oil before returning it 
for reuse by the generator; 
(B) 
Separating used oil from wastewater generated on-site to make the 
wastewater acceptable for discharge or reuse pursuant to section 402 or 
section 307(b) of the Clean Water Act or other applicable Federal or 
state regulations governing the management or discharge of 
wastewaters; 
(C) 
Using oil mist collectors to remove small droplets of used oil from in-plant 
air to make plant air suitable for continued recirculation; 
(D) 
Draining or otherwise removing used oil from materials containing or 
otherwise contaminated with used oil in order to remove excessive oil to 
the extent possible pursuant to § 279.10(c); or 
(E) 
Filtering, separating or otherwise reconditioning used oil before burning it 
in a space heater pursuant to § 279.23. 
(3) 
Generators who burn off-specification used oil for energy recovery, except under the on-
site space heater provisions of § 279.23, must also comply with Subpart G of this part. 
(4) 
Generators who direct shipments of off-specification used oil from their facility to a used 
oil burner or first claim that used oil that is to be burned for energy recovery meets the 
used oil fuel specifications set forth in § 279.11 must also comply with Subpart H of this 
part. 
(5) 
Generators who dispose of used oil, including the use of used oil as a dust suppressant, 
must also comply with Subpart I of this part.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
11 
§ 279.21 
Hazardous waste mixing. 
(a) 
Mixtures of used oil and hazardous waste must be managed in accordance with § 279.10(b). 
(b) 
The rebuttable presumption for used oil of § 279.10(b)(1)(ii) applies to used oil managed by 
generators. Under the rebuttable presumption for used oil of § 279.10(b)(1)(ii), used oil containing 
greater than 1,000 ppm total halogens is presumed to be a hazardous waste and thus must be 
managed as hazardous waste and not as used oil unless the presumption is rebutted. However, 
the rebuttable presumption does not apply to certain metalworking oils/fluids and certain used oils 
removed from refrigeration units. 
§ 279.22 
Used oil storage. 
Used oil generators are subject to all applicable Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasures (40 CFR 
Part 112) in addition to the requirements of this subpart. Used oil generators are also subject to the 
Underground Storage Tank (40 CFR Part 280) standards for used oil stored in underground tanks 
whether or not the used oil exhibits any characteristics of hazardous waste, in addition to the 
requirements of this subpart. 
(a) 
Storage units. Used oil generators shall not store used oil in units other than tanks, containers, or 
units subject to regulation under Part 264 or 265 of these regulations. 
(b) 
Condition of units. Containers and aboveground tanks used to store used oil at generator facilities 
must be: 
(1) 
In good condition (no severe rusting, apparent structural defects or deterioration); and 
(2) 
Not leaking (no visible leaks). 
(3) 
Kept closed during storage, except when it is necessary to add or remove used oil, if the 
containers are being managed outdoors. 
(c) 
Labels. 
(1) 
Containers and aboveground tanks used to store used oil at generator facilities must be 
labeled or marked clearly with the words "Used Oil." 
(2) 
Fill pipes used to transfer used oil into underground storage tanks at generator facilities 
must be labeled or marked clearly with the words "Used Oil." 
(d) 
Response to releases. Upon detection of a release of used oil to the environment that is not 
subject to the requirements of 40 CFR Part 280, Subpart F, and which has occurred after the 
effective date of these regulations, a generator must perform the following cleanup steps: 
(1) 
Stop the release; 
(2) 
Contain the released used oil; 
(3) 
Clean up and manage properly the released used oil and other materials; and 
(4) 
If necessary to prevent future releases, repair or replace any leaking used oil storage 
containers or tanks prior to returning them to service.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
12 
Note: 40 CFR part 280, subpart F, is incorporated by reference to include those versions in effect 
as of the date this regulation was adopted, and does not include later amendments to the 
incorporated material. Materials incorporated by reference are available for public inspection 
during normal business hours from the Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division, 
4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, CO 80246. Copies may also be found at the 
Environmental Protection Agency through the Government Printing Office at 
https://www.govinfo.gov/app/collection/cfr/262.18 
§ 279.23 
On-site burning in space heaters. 
Generators may burn used oil in used oil-fired space heaters provided that: 
(a) 
The heater burns only used oil that the owner or operator generates or used oil received from 
household do-it-yourself used oil generators; 
(b) 
The heater is designed to have a maximum capacity of not more than 0.5 million Btu per hour; 
and 
(c) 
The combustion gases from the heater are vented to the ambient air. 
§ 279.24 
Off-site shipments. 
Except as provided in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, generators must ensure that their used 
oil is transported only by transporters who have obtained EPA identification numbers. 
(a) 
Self-transportation of small amounts to approved collection centers. Generators may transport, 
without an EPA identification number, used oil that is generated at the generator's site and used 
oil collected from household do-it-yourselfers to a used oil collection center provided that: 
(1) 
The generator transports the used oil in a vehicle owned by the generator or owned by an 
employee of the generator. 
(2) 
The generator transports no more than 55 gallons of used oil at any time; and 
(3) 
The generator transports the used oil to a used oil collection center that has notified the 
Department as a used oil collection center and has received an EPA identification 
number to manage used oil. 
(b) 
Self-transportation of small amounts to aggregation points owned by the generator. Generators 
may transport, without an EPA identification number, used oil that is generated at the generator's 
site to an aggregation point provided that: 
(1) 
The generator transports the used oil in a vehicle owned by the generator or owned by an 
employee of the generator. 
(2) 
The generator transports no more than 55 gallons of used oil at any time; and 
(3) 
The generator transports the used oil to an aggregation point that is owned and/or 
operated by the same generator. 
(c) 
Tolling arrangements. Used oil generators may arrange for used oil to be transported by a 
transporter without an EPA identification number if the used oil is reclaimed under a contractual 
agreement pursuant to which reclaimed oil is returned by the processor/re-refiner to the generator 
for use as a lubricant, cutting oil, or coolant. The contract (known as a “tolling arrangement” ) 
must indicate:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
13 
(1) 
The type of used oil and the frequency of shipments; 
(2) 
That the vehicle used to transport the used oil to the processing/re-refining facility and to 
deliver recycled used oil back to the generator is owned and operated by the used oil 
processor/re-refiner, and 
(3) 
That reclaimed oil will be returned to the generator. 
Subpart D - Standards for Used Oil Collection Centers and Aggregation Points 
§ 279.30 
Do-it-yourselfer used oil collection centers. 
(a) 
Applicability. This section applies to owners or operators of all do-it-yourselfer (DIY) used oil 
collection centers. A DIY used oil collection center is any site or facility that accepts/aggregates 
and stores used oil collected only from household do-it-yourselfers. 
(b) 
DFY used oil collection center requirements. Owners or operators of all DIY used oil collection 
centers must comply with the generator standards in Subpart C of this part. 
§ 279.31 
Used oil collection centers. 
(a) 
Applicability. This section applies to owners or operators of used oil collection centers. A used oil 
collection center is any site or facility that accepts/aggregates and stores used oil collected from 
used oil generators regulated under Subpart C of this part who bring used oil to the collection 
center in shipments of no more than 55 gallons under the provisions of § 279.24(a). Used oil 
collection centers may also accept used oil from household do it yourselfers. 
(b) 
Used oil collection center requirements. Owners or operators of all used oil collection centers 
must: 
(1) 
Comply with the generator standards in Subpart C of this part; and 
(2) 
Notify the Department as a used oil collection center and receive an EPA identification 
number to manage used oil; and 
(3) 
Not burn used oil that they have received from another used oil generator, other than a 
household do-it-yourselfer, in a used oil-fired space heater unless that oil has been 
determined to be in compliance with § 279.11. 
§ 279.32 
Used oil aggregation points owned by the generator. 
(a) 
Applicability. This section applies to owners or operators of all used oil aggregation points. A used 
oil aggregation point is any site or facility that accepts, aggregates, and/or stores used oil 
collected only from other used oil generation sites owned or operated by the owner or operator of 
the aggregation point, from which used oil is transported to the aggregation point in shipments of 
no more than 55 gallons under the provisions of § 279.24(b). Used oil aggregation points may 
also accept used oil from household do it yourselfers. 
(b) 
Used oil aggregation point requirements. Owners or operators of all used oil aggregation points 
must comply with the generator standards in Subpart C of this part.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
14 
Subpart E - Standards for Used Oil Transporter and Transfer Facilities 
§ 279.40 
Applicability. 
(a) 
General. Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section, this subpart 
applies to all used oil transporters. Used oil transporters are persons who transport used oil, 
persons who collect used oil from more than one generator and transport the collected oil, and 
owners and operators of used oil transfer facilities. 
(1) 
This subpart does not apply to on site transportation. 
(2) 
This subpart does not apply to generators who transport shipments of used oil totaling 55 
gallons or less from the generator to a used oil collection center as specified in § 
279.24(a). 
(3) 
This subpart does not apply to generators who transport shipments of used oil totaling 55 
gallons or less from the generator to a used oil aggregation point owned or operated by 
the same generator as specified in § 279.24(b). 
(4) 
This subpart does not apply to transportation of used oil from household do it yourselfers 
to a regulated used oil generator, collection center, aggregation point, processor/re 
refiner, or burner subject to the requirements of this part. Except as provided in 
paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section, this subpart does, however, apply to 
transportation of collected household do it yourselfer used oil from regulated used oil 
generators, collection centers, aggregation points, or other facilities where household do 
it yourselfer used oil is collected. 
(b) 
Imports and exports. Transporters who import used oil from abroad or export used oil outside of 
the United States are subject to the requirements of this subpart from the time the used oil enters 
and until the time it exits the United States. 
(c) 
Trucks used to transport hazardous waste. Unless trucks previously used to transport hazardous 
waste are emptied as described in § 261.7 of these regulations prior to transporting used oil, the 
used oil is considered to have been mixed with the hazardous waste and must be managed as 
hazardous waste unless, under the provisions of § 279.10(b), the hazardous waste/used oil 
mixture is determined not to be hazardous waste. 
(d) 
Other applicable provisions. Used oil transporters who conduct the following activities are also 
subject to other applicable provisions of this part as indicated in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of 
this section: 
(1) 
Transporters who generate used oil must also comply with Subpart C of this part; 
(2) 
Transporters who process or re-refine used oil, except as provided in § 279.41, must also 
comply with Subpart F of this part; 
(3) 
Transporters who burn off specification used oil for energy recovery must also comply 
with Subpart G of this part; 
(4) 
Transporters who direct shipments of off specification used oil from their facility to a used 
oil burner or first claim that used oil that is to be burned for energy recovery meets the 
used oil fuel specifications set forth in § 279.11 must also comply with Subpart H of this 
part; and 
(5) 
Transporters who dispose of used oil must also comply with Subpart I of this part.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
15 
§ 279.41 
Restrictions on transporters who are not also processors or re-refiners. 
(a) 
Used oil transporters may consolidate or aggregate loads of used oil for purposes of 
transportation. However, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, used oil transporters 
may not process used oil unless they also comply with the requirements for processors/re refiners 
in Subpart F of this part. 
(b) 
Transporters may conduct incidental processing operations that occur in the normal course of 
used oil transportation (e.g., settling and water separation), but that are not designed to produce 
(or make more amenable for production of) used oil derived products unless they also comply 
with the processor/re refiner requirements in Subpart F of this part. 
(c) 
Transporters of used oil that is removed from oil bearing electrical transformers and turbines and 
filtered by the transporter or at a transfer facility prior to being returned to its original use are not 
subject to the processor/re-refiner requirements in Subpart F of this part. 
§ 279.42 
Notification. 
(a) 
Identification numbers. Used oil transporters who have not previously complied with the 
notification requirements of RCRA section 3010 must comply with these requirements and obtain 
an EPA identification number. 
(b) 
Mechanics of notification. A used oil transporter who has not received an EPA identification 
number may obtain one by notifying the Department of their used oil activity by submitting either: 
(1) 
A completed EPA Form 8700-12; or 
(2) 
A letter requesting an EPA identification number. 
Call RCRA/Superfund Hotline to determine where to send a letter requesting an EPA 
identification number. The letter should include the following information: 
(i) 
Transporter company name; 
(ii) 
Owner of the transporter company; 
(iii) 
Mailing address for the transporter; 
(iv) 
Name and telephone number for the transporter point of contact; 
(v) 
Type of transport activity (i.e., transport only, transport and transfer facility, 
transfer facility only); 
(vi) 
Location of all transfer facilities at which used oil is stored; 
(vii) 
Name and telephone number for a contact at each transfer facility. 
§ 279.43 
Used oil transportation. 
(a) 
Deliveries. A used oil transporter must deliver all used oil received to: 
(1) 
Another used oil transporter, provided that the transporter has obtained an EPA 
identification number. 
(2) 
A used oil processing/re-refining facility who has obtained an EPA identification number;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
16 
(3) 
An off-specification used oil burner facility who has obtained an EPA identification 
number; or 
(4) 
An on-specification used oil burner facility. 
(b) 
DOT Requirements. Used oil transporters must comply with all applicable requirements under the 
U.S. Department of Transportation regulations in 49 CFR Parts 171 through 180. Persons 
transporting used oil that meets the definition of a hazardous material in 49 CFR § 171.8 must 
comply with all applicable regulations in 49 CFR Parts 171 through 180. 
(c) 
Used oil discharges. 
(1) 
In the event of a discharge of used oil during transportation, the transporter must take 
appropriate immediate action to protect human health and the environment (e.g., notify 
local authorities, dike the discharge area). 
(2) 
If a discharge of used oil occurs during transportation and an official (State or local 
government or a Federal Agency) acting within the scope of official responsibilities 
determines that immediate removal of the used oil is necessary to protect human health 
or the environment, that official may authorize the removal of the used oil by transporters 
who do not have EPA identification numbers. 
(3) 
An air, rail, highway, or water transporter who has discharged used oil must: 
(i) 
Give notice, if required by 49 CFR § 171.15, to the National Response Center 
(800-424-8802 or 202-426-2675); and 
(ii) 
Report in writing as required by 49 CFR § 171.16 to the Director, Office of 
Hazardous Materials Regulations, Materials Transportation Bureau, Department 
of Transportation, Washington, DC 20590. 
(4) 
A water transporter who has discharged used oil must give notice as required by 33 CFR 
§ 153.203. 
(5) 
A transporter must clean up any used oil discharge that occurs during transportation or 
take such action as may be required or approved by federal, state, or local officials so 
that the used oil discharge no longer presents a hazard to human health or the 
environment. 
§ 279.44 
Rebuttable presumption for used oil. 
(a) 
To ensure that used oil is not a hazardous waste under the rebuttable presumption of § 
279.10(b)(1)(ii), the used oil transporter must determine whether the total halogen content of used 
oil being transported or stored at a transfer facility is above or below 1,000 ppm. 
(b) 
The transporter must make this determination by: 
(1) 
Testing the used oil; or 
(2) 
Applying knowledge of the halogen content of the used oil in light of the materials or 
processes used.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
17 
(c) 
If the used oil contains greater than or equal to 1,000 ppm total halogens, it is presumed to be a 
hazardous waste because it has been mixed with halogenated hazardous waste listed in Subpart 
D of Part 261 of these regulations. The owner or operator may rebut the presumption by 
demonstrating that the used oil does not contain hazardous waste (for example, by showing that 
the used oil does not contain significant concentrations of halogenated hazardous constituents 
listed in Appendix VIII of Part 261 of these regulations). 
(1) 
The rebuttable presumption does not apply to metalworking oils/fluids containing 
chlorinated paraffins, if they are processed, through a tolling arrangement as described in 
§ 279.24(c), to reclaim metalworking oils/fluids. The presumption does apply to 
metalworking oils/fluids if such oils/fluids are recycled in any other manner, or disposed. 
(2) 
The rebuttable presumption does not apply to used oils contaminated with 
chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) removed from refrigeration units if the CFCs are destined for 
reclamation. The rebuttable presumption does apply to used oils contaminated with CFCs 
that have been mixed with used oil from sources other than refrigeration units. 
(d) 
Record retention. Records of analyses conducted or information used to comply with paragraphs 
(a), (b), and (c) of this section must be maintained by the transporter for at least 3 years. 
§ 279.45 
Used oil storage at transfer faculties. 
Used oil transporters are subject to all applicable Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasures (40 
CFR Part 112) in addition to the requirements of this subpart. Used oil transporters are also subject to the 
Underground Storage Tank (40 CFR Part 280) standards for used oil stored in underground tanks 
whether or not the used oil exhibits any characteristics of hazardous waste, in addition to the 
requirements of this subpart. 
(a) 
Applicability. This section applies to used oil transfer facilities. Used oil transfer facilities are 
transportation related facilities including loading docks, parking areas, storage areas, and other 
areas where shipments of used oil are held for more than 24 hours during the normal course of 
transportation and not longer than 35 days. Transfer facilities that store used oil for more than 35 
days are subject to regulation under Subpart F of this part. 
(b) 
Storage units. Owners or operators of used oil transfer facilities may not store used oil in units 
other than tanks, containers, or units subject to regulation under Parts 264 or 265 of these 
regulations. 
(c) 
Condition of units. Containers and aboveground tanks used to store used oil at transfer facilities 
must be: 
(1) 
In good condition (no severe rusting, apparent structural defects or deterioration); and 
(2) 
Not leaking (no visible leaks). 
(d) 
Secondary containment for containers. Containers used to store used oil at transfer facilities must 
be equipped with a secondary containment system. 
(1) 
The secondary containment system must consist of, at a minimum: 
(i) 
Dikes, berms or retaining walls; and 
(ii) 
A floor. The floor must cover the entire area within the dikes, berms, or retaining 
walls; or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
18 
(iii) 
An equivalent secondary containment system. 
(2) 
The entire containment system, including walls and floors, must be sufficiently impervious 
to used oil to prevent any used oil released into the containment system from migrating 
out of the system to the soil, groundwater, or surface water. 
(e) 
Secondary containment for existing aboveground tanks. Existing aboveground tanks used to 
store used oil at transfer facilities must be equipped with a secondary containment system. 
(1) 
The secondary containment system must consist of, at a minimum: 
(i) 
Dikes, berms or retaining walls; and 
(ii) 
A floor. The floor must cover the entire area within the dike, berm, or retaining 
wall except areas where existing portions of the tank meet the ground; or 
(iii) 
An equivalent secondary containment system. 
(2) 
The entire containment system, including walls and floors, must be sufficiently impervious 
to used oil to prevent any used oil released into the containment system from migrating 
out of the system to the soil, groundwater, or surface water. 
(f) 
Secondary containment for new aboveground tanks. New aboveground tanks used to store used 
oil at transfer facilities must be equipped with a secondary containment system. 
(1) 
The secondary containment system must consist of, at a minimum: 
(i) 
Dikes, berms or retaining walls; and 
(ii) 
A floor. The floor must cover the entire area within the dike, berm, or retaining 
wall; or 
(iii) 
An equivalent secondary containment system. 
(2) 
The entire containment system, including walls and floors, must be sufficiently impervious 
to used oil to prevent any used oil released into the containment system from migrating 
out of the system to the soil, groundwater, or surface water. 
(g) 
Labels. 
(1) 
Containers and aboveground tanks used to store used oil at transfer facilities must be 
labeled or marked clearly with the words “Used Oil.” 
(2) 
Fill pipes used to transfer used oil into underground storage tanks at transfer facilities 
must be labeled or marked clearly with the words “Used Oil.” 
(h) 
Response to releases. Upon detection of a release of used oil to the environment that is not 
subject to the requirements of 40 CFR Part 280, Subpart F, and which has occurred after the 
effective date of these regulations, the owner/operator of a transfer facility must perform the 
following cleanup steps: 
(1) 
Stop the release; 
(2) 
Contain the released used oil;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
19 
(3) 
Clean up and manage properly the released used oil and other materials; and 
(4) 
If necessary, repair or replace any leaking used oil storage containers or tanks prior to 
returning them to service. 
§ 279.46 
Tracking. 
(a) 
Acceptance. Used oil transporters must keep a record of each used oil shipment accepted for 
transport. Records for each shipment must include: 
(1) 
The name and address of the generator, transporter, or processor/re-refiner who 
provided the used oil for transport; 
(2) 
The EPA identification number (if applicable) of the generator, transporter, or 
processor/re-refiner who provided the used oil for transport; 
(3) 
The quantity of used oil accepted; 
(4) 
The date of acceptance; and 
(5) 
(i) 
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section, the signature, dated 
upon receipt of the used oil, of a representative of the generator, transporter, or 
processor/re-refiner who provided the used oil for transport. 
(ii) 
Intermediate rail transporters are not required to sign the record of acceptance. 
(b) 
Deliveries. Used oil transporters must keep a record of each shipment of used oil that is delivered 
to another used oil transporter, or to a used oil burner, processor/re-refiner, or disposal facility. 
Records of each delivery must include: 
(1) 
The name and address of the receiving facility or transporter, 
(2) 
The EPA identification number of the receiving facility or transporter; 
(3) 
The quantity of used oil delivered; 
(4) 
The date of delivery; 
(5) 
(i) 
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section, the signature, dated 
upon receipt of the used oil, of a representative of the receiving facility or transporter. 
(ii) 
Intermediate rail transporters are not required to sign the record of delivery. 
(c) 
Exports of used oil. Used oil transporters must maintain the records described in paragraphs 
(b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section for each shipment of used oil exported to any foreign country. 
(d) 
Record retention. The records described in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section must be 
maintained for at least three years. 
§ 279.47 
Management of residues. 
Transporters who generate residues from the storage or transport of used oil must manage the residues 
as specified in § 279.10(e).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
20 
Subpart F - Standards for Used Oil Processors and Re-Refiners 
§ 279.50 
Applicability. 
(a) 
The requirements of this subpart apply to owners and operators of facilities that process used oil. 
Processing means chemical or physical operations designed to produce from used oil, or to make 
used oil more amenable for production of, fuel oils, lubricants, or other used oil-derived products. 
Processing includes, but is not limited to: blending used oil with virgin petroleum products, 
blending used oils to meet the fuel specification, filtration, simple distillation, chemical or physical 
separation and re-refining. The requirements of this subpart do not apply to: 
(1) 
Transporters that conduct incidental processing operations that occur during the normal 
course of transportation as provided in § 279.41; or 
(2) 
Burners that conduct incidental processing operations that occur during the normal 
course of used oil management prior to burning as provided in § 279.61(b). 
(b) 
Other applicable provisions. Used oil processors/re-refiners who conduct the following activities 
are also subject to the requirements of other applicable provisions of this part as indicated in 
paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section. 
(1) 
Processors/re-refiners who generate used oil must also comply with Subpart C of this 
part; 
(2) 
Processors/re refiners who transport used oil must also comply with Subpart E of this 
part; 
(3) 
Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (b)(3)(ii) of this section, processors/re 
refiners who burn off specification used oil for energy recovery must also comply with 
Subpart G of this part. Processor/re refiners burning used oil for energy recovery under 
the following conditions are not subject to Subpart G of this part: 
(i) 
The used oil is burned in an on site space heater that meets the requirements of 
§ 279.23; or 
(ii) 
The used oil is burned for purposes of processing used oil, which is considered 
burning incidentally to used oil processing; 
(4) 
Processors/re refiners who direct shipments of off specification used oil from their facility 
to a used oil burner or first claim that used oil that is to be burned for energy recovery 
meets the used oil fuel specifications set forth in § 279.11 must also comply with Subpart 
H of this part; and 
(5) 
Processors/re refiners who dispose of used oil must also comply with Subpart I of this 
part. 
§ 279.51 
Notification. 
(a) 
Identification numbers. Used oil processors and re refiners who have not previously complied with 
the notification requirements of RCRA section 3010 must comply with these requirements and 
obtain an EPA identification number. 
(b) 
Mechanics of notification. A used oil processor or re refiner who has not received an EPA 
identification number may obtain one by notifying the Department of their used oil activity by 
submitting either:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
21 
(1) 
A completed EPA Form 8700-12; or 
(2) 
A letter requesting an EPA identification number. 
Call RCRA/Superfund Hotline to determine where to send a letter requesting an EPA 
identification number. The letter should include the following information: 
(i) 
Processor or re refiner company name; 
(ii) 
Owner of the processor or re-refiner company; 
(iii) 
Mailing address for the processor or re refiner; 
(iv) 
Name and telephone number for the processor or re-refiner point of contact; 
(v) 
Type of used oil activity (i.e., process only, process and re-refine); 
(vi) 
Location of the processor or re-refiner facility. 
§ 279.52 
General facility standards. 
(a) 
Preparedness and prevention. Owners and operators of used oil processing and re-refining 
facilities must comply with the following requirements: 
(1) 
Maintenance and operation of facility. Facilities must be maintained and operated to 
minimize the possibility of a fire, explosion, or any unplanned sudden or non-sudden 
release of used oil to air, soil, or surface water which could threaten human health or the 
environment. 
(2) 
Required equipment. All facilities must be equipped with the following, unless none of the 
hazards posed by used oil handled at the facility could require a particular kind of 
equipment specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section: 
(i) 
An internal communications or alarm system capable of providing immediate 
emergency instruction (voice or signal) to facility personnel; 
(ii) 
A device, such as a telephone (immediately available at the scene of operations) 
or a hand-held two-way radio, capable of summoning emergency assistance 
from local police departments, fire departments, or State or local emergency 
response teams; 
(iii) 
Portable fire extinguishers, fire control equipment (including special extinguishing 
equipment, such as that using foam, inert gas, or dry chemicals), spill control 
equipment and decontamination equipment; and 
(iv) 
Water at adequate volume and pressure to supply water hose streams, or foam 
producing equipment, or automatic sprinklers, or water spray systems. 
(3) 
Testing and maintenance of equipment. All facility communications or alarm systems, fire 
protection equipment, spill control equipment, and decontamination equipment, where 
required, must be tested and maintained as necessary to assure its proper operation in 
time of emergency. 
(4) 
Access to communications or alarm system.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
22 
(i) 
Whenever used oil is being poured, mixed, spread, or otherwise handled, all 
personnel involved in the operation must have immediate access to an internal 
alarm or emergency communication device, either directly or through visual or 
voice contact with another employee, unless such a device is not required in 
paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 
(ii) 
If there is ever just one employee on the premises while the facility is operating, 
the employee must have immediate access to a device, such as a telephone 
(immediately available at the scene of operation) or a hand-held two-way radio, 
capable of summoning external emergency assistance, unless such a device is 
not required in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. 
(5) 
Required aisle space. The owner or operator must maintain aisle space to allow the 
unobstructed movement of personnel, fire protection equipment, spill control equipment, 
and decontamination equipment to any area of facility operation in an emergency, unless 
aisle space is not needed for any of these purposes. 
(6) 
Arrangements with local authorities. 
(i) 
The owner or operator must attempt to make the following arrangements, as 
appropriate for the type of used oil handled at the facility and the potential need 
for the services of these organizations: 
(A) 
Arrangements to familiarize police, fire departments, and emergency 
response teams with the layout of the facility, properties of used oil 
handled at the facility and associated hazards, places where facility 
personnel would normally be working, entrances to roads inside the 
facility, and possible evacuation routes; 
(B) 
Where more than one police and fire department might respond to an 
emergency, agreements designating primary emergency authority to a 
specific police and a specific fire department, and agreements with any 
others to provide support to the primary emergency authority. 
(C) 
Agreements with State emergency response teams, emergency 
response contractors, and equipment suppliers; and 
(D) 
Arrangements to familiarize local hospitals with the properties of used oil 
handled at the facility and the types of injuries or illnesses which could 
result from fires, explosions, or releases at the facility. 
(ii) 
Where State or local authorities decline to enter into such arrangements, the 
owner or operator must document the refusal in the operating record. 
(b) 
Contingency plan and emergency procedures. Owners and operators of used oil processing and 
re refining facilities must comply with the following requirements: 
(1) 
Purpose and implementation of contingency plan. 
(i) 
Each owner or operator must have a contingency plan for the facility. The 
contingency plan must be designed to minimize hazards to human health or the 
environment from fires, explosions, or any unplanned sudden or non sudden 
release of used oil to air, soil, or surface water.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
23 
(ii) 
The provisions of the plan must be carried out immediately whenever there is a 
fire, explosion, or release of used oil which could threaten human health or the 
environment. 
(2) 
Content of contingency plan. 
(i) 
The contingency plan must describe the actions facility personnel must take to 
comply with paragraphs (b)(1) and (6) of this section in response to fires, 
explosions, or any unplanned sudden or non sudden release of used oil to air, 
soil, or surface water at the facility. 
(ii) 
If the owner or operator has already prepared a Spill Prevention, Control, and 
Countermeasures (SPCC) Plan in accordance with 40 CFR Part 112, or 40 CFR 
Part 300, or some other emergency or contingency plan, the owner or operator 
need only amend that plan to incorporate used oil management provisions that 
are sufficient to comply with the requirements of this part. 
(iii) 
The plan must describe arrangements agreed to by local police departments, fire 
departments, hospitals, contractors, and State and local emergency response 
teams to coordinate emergency services, pursuant to paragraph (a)(6) of this 
section. 
(iv) 
The plan must list names, addresses, and phone numbers (office and home) of 
all persons qualified to act as emergency coordinator (see paragraph (b)(5) of 
this section), and this list must be kept up to date. Where more than one person 
is listed, one must be named as primary emergency coordinator and others must 
be listed in the order in which they will assume responsibility as alternates. 
(v) 
The plan must include a list of all emergency equipment at the facility (such as 
fire extinguishing systems, spill control equipment, communications and alarm 
systems (internal and external), and decontamination equipment), where this 
equipment is required. This list must be kept up to date. In addition, the plan 
must include the location and a physical description of each item on the list, and 
a brief outline of its capabilities. 
(vi) 
The plan must include an evacuation plan for facility personnel where there is a 
possibility that evacuation could be necessary. This plan must describe signal(s) 
to be used to begin evacuation, evacuation routes, and alternate evacuation 
routes (in cases where the primary routes could be blocked by releases of used 
oil or fires). 
(3) 
Copies of contingency plan. A copy of the contingency plan and all revisions to the plan 
must be: 
(i) 
Maintained at the facility; and 
(ii) 
Submitted to all local police departments, fire departments, hospitals, and State 
and local emergency response teams that may be called upon to provide 
emergency services. 
(4) 
Amendment of contingency plan. The contingency plan must be reviewed, and 
immediately amended, if necessary, whenever 
(i) 
Applicable regulations are revised;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
24 
(ii) 
The plan fails in an emergency. 
(iii) 
The facility changes in its design, construction, operation, maintenance, or other 
circumstances in a way that materially increases the potential for fires, 
explosions, or releases of used oil, or changes the response necessary in an 
emergency, 
(iv) 
The list of emergency coordinators changes; or 
(v) 
The list of emergency equipment changes. 
(5) 
Emergency coordinator. At all times, there must be at least one employee either on the 
facility premises or on call (i.e., available to respond to an emergency by reaching the 
facility within a short period of time) with the responsibility for coordinating all emergency 
response measures. This emergency coordinator must be thoroughly familiar with all 
aspects of the facility's contingency plan, all operations and activities at the facility, the 
location and characteristic of used oil handled, the location of all records within the 
facility, and facility layout. In addition, this person must have the authority to commit the 
resources needed to carry out the contingency plan. 
Guidance: The emergency coordinator's responsibilities are more fully spelled out in 
paragraph (b)(6) of this section. Applicable responsibilities for the emergency coordinator 
vary, depending on factors such as type and variety of used oil handled by the facility, 
and type and complexity of the facility. 
(6) 
Emergency procedures. 
(i) 
Whenever there is an imminent or actual emergency situation, the emergency 
coordinator (or the designee when the emergency coordinator is on call) must 
immediately: 
(A) 
Activate internal facility alarms or communication systems, where 
applicable, to notify all facility personnel; and 
(B) 
Notify appropriate State or local agencies with designated response roles 
if their help is needed. 
(ii) 
Whenever there is a release, fire, or explosion, the emergency coordinator must 
immediately identify the character, exact source, amount, and areal extent of any 
released materials. He/she may do this by observation or review of facility 
records or manifests and, if necessary, by chemical analyses. 
(iii) 
Concurrently, the emergency coordinator must assess possible hazards to 
human health or the environment that may result from the release, fire, or 
explosion. This assessment must consider both direct and indirect effects of the 
release, fire, or explosion (e.g., the effects of any toxic, irritating, or asphyxiating 
gases that are generated, or the effects of any hazardous surface water run offs 
from water or chemical agents used to control fire and heat induced explosions). 
(iv) 
If the emergency coordinator determines that the facility has had a release, fire, 
or explosion which could threaten human health, or the environment, outside the 
facility, he/she must report his/her findings as follows: 
(A) 
If his/her assessment indicated that evacuation of local areas may be 
advisable, he/she must immediately notify appropriate local authorities.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
25 
He/she must be available to help appropriate officials decide whether 
local areas should be evacuated; and 
(B) 
He/she must immediately notify either the government official designated 
as the on scene coordinator for the geographical area (in the applicable 
regional contingency plan under 40 CFR Part 1510), or the National 
Response Center (using their 24 hour toll free number 800/424 8802). 
The report must include: 
(1) 
Name and telephone number of reporter; 
(2) 
Name and address of facility; 
(3) 
Time and type of incident (e.g., release, fire); 
(4) 
Name and quantity of material(s) involved, to the extent known; 
(5) 
The extent of injuries, if any, and 
(6) 
The possible hazards to human health, or the environment, 
outside the facility. 
(v) 
During an emergency, the emergency coordinator must take all reasonable 
measures necessary to ensure that fires, explosions, and releases do not occur, 
recur, or spread to other used oil or hazardous waste at the facility. These 
measures must include, where applicable, stopping processes and operation, 
collecting and containing released used oil, and removing or isolating containers. 
(vi) 
If the facility stops operation in response to a fire, explosion, or release, the 
emergency coordinator must monitor for leaks, pressure buildup, gas generation, 
or ruptures in valves, pipes, or other equipment, wherever this is appropriate. 
(vii) 
Immediately after an emergency, the emergency coordinator must provide for 
recycling, storing, or disposing of recovered used oil, contaminated soil or 
surface water, or any other material that results from a release, fire, or explosion 
at the facility. 
(viii) 
The emergency coordinator must ensure that, in the affected area(s) of the 
facility: 
(A) 
No waste or used oil that may be incompatible with the released material 
is recycled, treated, stored, or disposed of until cleanup procedures are 
completed; and 
(B) 
All emergency equipment listed in the contingency plan is cleaned and fit 
for its intended use before operations are resumed. 
(C) 
The owner or operator must notify the Department, and appropriate State 
and local authorities that the facility is in compliance with paragraphs 
(b)(6)(viii)(A) and (B) of this section before operations are resumed in the 
affected area(s) of the facility.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
26 
(ix) 
The owner or operator must note in the operating record the time, date and 
details of any incident that requires implementing the contingency plan. Within 15 
days after the incident, he/she must submit a written report on the incident to the 
Department. The report must include: 
(A) 
Name, address, and telephone number of the owner or operator; 
(B) 
Name, address, and telephone number of the facility; 
(C) 
Date, time, and type of incident (e.g., fire, explosion); 
(D) 
Name and quantity of material(s) involved; 
(E) 
The extent of injuries, if any; 
(F) 
An assessment of actual or potential hazards to human health or the 
environment, where this is applicable; 
(G) 
Estimated quantity and disposition of recovered material that resulted 
from the incident. 
§ 279.53 
Rebuttable presumption for used oil. 
(a) 
To ensure that used oil managed at a processing/re refining facility is not hazardous waste under 
the rebuttable presumption of § 279.10(b)(1)(ii), the owner or operator of a used oil processing/re 
refining facility must determine whether the total halogen content of used oil managed at the 
facility is above or below 1,000 ppm. 
(b) 
The owner or operator must make this determination by: 
(1) 
Testing the used oil; or 
(2) 
Applying knowledge of the halogen content of the used oil in light of the materials or 
processes used. 
(c) 
If the used oil contains greater than or equal to 1,000 ppm total halogens, it is presumed to be a 
hazardous waste because it has been mixed with halogenated hazardous waste listed in Subpart 
D of Part 261 of these regulations. The owner or operator may rebut the presumption by 
demonstrating that the used oil does not contain hazardous waste (for example, by showing that 
the used oil does not contain significant concentrations of halogenated hazardous constituents 
listed in Appendix VIII of Part 261 of these regulations). 
(1) 
The rebuttable presumption does not apply to metalworking oils/fluids containing 
chlorinated paraffins, if they are processed, through a tolling agreement, to reclaim 
metalworking oils/fluids. The presumption does apply to metalworking oils/fluids if such 
oils/fluids are recycled in any other manner, or disposed. 
(2) 
The rebuttable presumption does not apply to used oils contaminated with 
chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) removed from refrigeration units where the CFCs are 
destined for reclamation. The rebuttable presumption does apply to used oils 
contaminated with CFCs that have been mixed with used oil from sources other than 
refrigeration units.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
27 
§ 279.54 
Used oil management 
Used oil processor/re-refiners are subject to all applicable Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasures 
(40 CFR Part 112) in addition to the requirements of this subpart. Used oil processors/re-refiners are also 
subject to the Underground Storage Tank (40 CFR Part 280) standards for used oil stored in underground 
tanks whether or not the used oil exhibits any characteristics of hazardous waste, in addition to the 
requirements of this subpart. 
(a) 
Management units. Used oil processors/re-refiners may not store used oil in units other than 
tanks, containers, or units subject to regulation under Part 264 or 265 of these regulations. 
(b) 
Condition of units. Containers and aboveground tanks used to store or process used oil at 
processing and re-refining facilities must be: 
(1) 
In good condition (no severe rusting, apparent structural defects or deterioration); and 
(2) 
Not leaking (no visible leaks). 
(c) 
Secondary containment for containers. Containers used to store or process used oil at processing 
and re-refining facilities must be equipped with a secondary containment system. 
(1) 
The secondary containment system must consist of, at a minimum: 
(i) 
Dikes, berms or retaining walls; and 
(ii) 
A floor. The floor must cover the entire area within the dike, berm, or retaining 
wall; or 
(iii) 
An equivalent secondary containment system. 
(2) 
The entire containment system, including walls and floor, must be sufficiently impervious 
to used oil to prevent any used oil released into the containment system from migrating 
out of the system to the soil, groundwater, or surface water. 
(d) 
Secondary containment for existing aboveground tanks. Existing aboveground tanks used to 
store or process used oil at processing and re-refining facilities must be equipped with a 
secondary containment system. 
(1) 
The secondary containment system must consist of, at a minimum: 
(i) 
Dikes, berms or retaining walls; and 
(ii) 
A floor. The floor must cover the entire area within the dike, berm, or retaining 
wall except areas where existing portions of the tank meet the ground; or 
(iii) 
An equivalent secondary containment system. 
(2) 
The entire containment system, including walls and floor, must be sufficiently impervious 
to used oil to prevent any used oil released into the containment system from migrating 
out of the system to the soil, groundwater, or surface water. 
(e) 
Secondary containment for new aboveground tanks. New aboveground tanks used to store or 
processing used oil at process and re-refining facilities must be equipped with a secondary 
containment system.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
28 
(1) 
The secondary containment system must consist of, at a minimum: 
(i) 
Dikes, berms or retaining walls; and 
(ii) 
A floor. The floor must cover the entire area within the dike, berm, or retaining 
wall; or 
(iii) 
An equivalent secondary containment system. 
(2) 
The entire containment system, including walls and floor, must be sufficiently impervious 
to used oil to prevent any used oil released into the containment system from migrating 
out of the system to the soil, groundwater, or surface water. 
(f) 
Labels. 
(1) 
Containers and aboveground tanks used to store or process used oil at processing and 
re-refining facilities must be labeled or marked clearly with the words “Used Oil.” 
(2) 
Fill pipes used to transfer used oil into underground storage tanks at processing and re-
refining facilities must be labeled or marked clearly with the words “Used Oil.” 
(g) 
Response to releases. Upon detection of a release of used oil to the environment that is not 
subject to the requirements of 40 CFR Part 280, Subpart F, and which has occurred after the 
effective date of these regulations, an owner/operator must perform the following cleanup steps: 
(1) 
Stop the release; 
(2) 
Contain the released used oil; 
(3) 
Clean up and manage properly the released used oil and other materials; and 
(4) 
If necessary, repair or replace any leaking used oil storage containers or tanks prior to 
returning them to service. 
(h) 
Closure. 
(1) 
Aboveground tanks. Owners and operators who store or process used oil in aboveground 
tanks must comply with the following requirements: 
(i) 
At closure of a tank system, the owner or operator must remove or 
decontaminate used oil residues in tanks, contaminated containment system 
components, contaminated soils, and structures and equipment contaminated 
with used oil, and manage them as hazardous waste, unless the materials are 
not hazardous waste under these regulations. 
(ii) 
If the owner or operator demonstrates that not all contaminated soils can be 
practicably removed or decontaminated as required in paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this 
section, then the owner or operator must close the tank system and perform 
post-closure care in accordance with the closure and post-closure care 
requirements that apply to hazardous waste landfills ( § 265.310 of these 
regulations). 
(2) 
Containers. Owners and operators who store used oil in containers must comply with the 
following requirements:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
29 
(i) 
At closure, containers holding used oils or residues of used oil must be removed 
from the site; 
(ii) 
The owner or operator must remove or decontaminate used oil residues, 
contaminated containment system components, contaminated soils, and 
structures and equipment contaminated with used oil, and manage them as 
hazardous waste, unless the materials are not hazardous waste under Part 261 
of these regulations. 
§ 279.55 
Analysis plan. 
Owners or operators of used oil processing and re-refining facilities must develop and follow a written 
analysis plan describing the procedures that will be used to comply with the analysis requirements of § 
279.53 and, if applicable, § 279.72. The owner or operator must keep the plan at the facility. 
(a) 
Rebuttable presumption for used oil in § 279.53. At a minimum the plan must specify the 
following: 
(1) 
Whether sample analyses or knowledge of the halogen content of the used oil will be 
used to make this determination. 
(2) 
If sample analyses are used to make this determination: 
(i) 
The sampling method used to obtain representative samples to be analyzed. A 
representative sample may be obtained using either: 
(A) 
One of the sampling methods in Appendix I of Part 261 of these 
regulations; or 
(B) 
A method shown to be equivalent under § 260.20 and 260.21 of these 
regulations; 
(ii) 
The frequency of sampling to be performed, and whether the analysis will be 
performed on site or off site; and 
(iii) 
The methods used to analyze used oil for the parameters specified in § 279.53; 
and 
(3) 
The type of information that will be used to determine the halogen content of the used oil. 
(b) 
On-specification used oil fuel in § 279.72. At a minimum, the plan must specify the following if 
§ 279.72 is applicable: 
(1) 
Whether sample analyses or other information will be used to make this determination; 
(2) 
If sample analyses are used to make this determination: 
(i) 
The sampling method used to obtain representative samples to be analyzed. A 
representative sample may be obtained using either: 
(A) 
One of the sampling methods in Appendix I of Part 261 of these 
regulations; or 
(B) 
A method shown to be equivalent under § 260.20 and § 260.21 of these 
regulations;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
30 
(ii) 
Whether used oil will be sampled and analyzed prior to or after any 
processing/re-refining; 
(iii) 
The frequency of sampling to be performed, and whether the analysis will be 
performed on-site or off-site; and 
(iv) 
The methods used to analyze used oil for the parameters specified in § 279.72; 
and 
(3) 
The type of information that will be used to make the on-specification used oil fuel 
determination. 
§ 279.56 
Tracking. 
(a) 
Acceptance. Used oil processors/re refiners must keep a record of each used oil shipment 
accepted for processing/re refining. These records may take the form of a log, invoice, manifest, 
bill of lading or other shipping documents. Records for each shipment must include the following 
information: 
(1) 
The name and address of the transporter who delivered the used oil to the processor/re 
refiner; 
(2) 
The name and address of the generator or processor/re-refiner from whom the used oil 
was sent for processing/re refining; 
(3) 
The EPA identification number of the transporter who delivered the used oil to the 
processor/re refiner; 
(4) 
The EPA identification number (if applicable) of the generator or processor/re refiner from 
whom the used oil was sent for processing/re refining; 
(5) 
The quantity of used oil accepted; and 
(6) 
The date of acceptance. 
(b) 
Delivery. Used oil processor/re refiners must keep a record of each shipment of used oil that is 
shipped to a used oil burner, processor/re refiner, or disposal facility. These records may take the 
form of a log, invoice, manifest, bill of lading or other shipping documents. Records for each 
shipment must include the following information: 
(1) 
The name and address of the transporter who delivers the used oil to the burner, 
processor/re refiner or disposal facility; 
(2) 
The name and address of the burner, processor/re refiner or disposal facility who will 
receive the used oil; 
(3) 
The EPA identification number of the transporter who delivers the used oil to the burner, 
processor/re refiner or disposal facility; 
(4) 
The EPA identification number of the burner, processor/re refiner, or disposal facility who 
will receive the used oil; 
(5) 
The quantity of used oil shipped; and 
(6) 
The date of shipment.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
31 
(c) 
Record retention. The records described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section must be 
maintained for at least three years. 
§ 279.57 
Operating record and reporting. 
(a) 
Operating record. 
(1) 
The owner or operator must keep a written operating record at the facility. 
(2) 
The following information must be recorded, as it becomes available, and maintained in 
the operating record until closure of the facility; 
(i) 
Records and results of used oil analyses performed as described in the analysis 
plan required under § 279.55; and 
(ii) 
Summary reports and details of all incidents that require implementation of the 
contingency plan as specified in § 279.52(b). 
(b) 
Reporting. A used oil processor/re refiner must report to the Department, in the form of a letter, 
on a biennial basis (by March 1 of each even numbered year), the following information 
concerning used oil activities during the previous calendar year: 
(1) 
The EPA identification number, name, and address of the processor/re refiner; 
(2) 
The calendar year covered by the report; and 
(3) 
The quantities of used oil accepted for processing/re refining and the manner in which the 
used oil is processed/re refined, including the specific processes employed. 
§ 279.58 
Off-site shipments of used oil. 
Used oil processors/re-refiners who initiate shipments of used oil off-site must ship the used oil using a 
used oil transporter who has obtained an EPA identification number. 
§ 279.59 
Management of residues. 
Owners and operators who generate residues from the storage, processing, or re-refining of used oil must 
manage the residues as specified in § 279.10(e). 
Subpart G - Standards for Used Oil Burners Who Burn Off-Specification Used Oil for Energy 
Recovery 
§ 279.60 
Applicability. 
(a) 
General. The requirements of this subpart apply to used oil burners except as specified in 
paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section. A used oil burner is a facility where used oil not 
meeting the specification requirements in § 279.11 is burned for energy recovery in devices 
identified in § 279.61(a). Facilities burning used oil for energy recovery under the following 
conditions are not subject to this subpart: 
(1) 
The used oil is burned by the generator in an on-site space heater under the provisions of 
§ 279.23; or 
(2) 
The used oil is burned by a processor/re-refiner for purposes of processing used oil, 
which is considered burning incidentally to used oil processing.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
32 
(b) 
Other applicable provisions. Used oil burners who conduct the following activities are also subject 
to the requirements of other applicable provisions of this part as indicated below. 
(1) 
Burners who generate used oil must also comply with Subpart C of this part; 
(2) 
Burners who transport used oil must also comply with Subpart E of this part; 
(3) 
Except as provided in § 279.61(b), burners who process or re-refine used oil must also 
comply with Subpart F of this part; 
(4) 
Burners who direct shipments of off-specification used oil from their facility to a used oil 
burner or first claim that used oil that is to be burned for energy recovery meets the used 
oil fuel specifications set forth in § 279.11 must also comply with Subpart H of this part; 
(5) 
Burners who dispose of used oil must also comply with Subpart I of this part. 
(c) 
Specification fuel. This subpart does not apply to persons burning used oil that meets the used oil 
fuel specification of § 279.11, provided that the burner complies with the requirements of Subpart 
H of this part. 
§ 279.61 
Restrictions on burning. 
(a) 
Off-specification used oil fuel may be burned for energy recovery in only the following devices: 
(1) 
Industrial furnaces identified in § 260.10 of these regulations; 
(2) 
Boilers, as defined in § 260.10 of these regulations, that are identified as follows: 
(i) 
Industrial boilers located on the site of a facility engaged in a manufacturing 
process where substances are transformed into new products, including the 
component parts of products, by mechanical or chemical processes; 
(ii) 
Utility boilers used to produce electric power, steam, heated or cooled air, or 
other gases or fluids for sale; or 
(iii) 
Used oil-fired space heaters provided that the burner meets the provisions of § 
279.23; or 
(3) 
Hazardous waste incinerators subject to regulation under Subpart O of Part 264 or 265 of 
these regulations. 
(b) 
(1) 
With the following exception, used oil burners may not process used oil unless they also 
comply with the requirements of Subpart F of this part. 
(2) 
Used oil burners may aggregate off-specification used oil with virgin oil or on-specification 
used oil for purposes of burning, but may not aggregate for purposes of producing on-
specification used oil. 
§ 279.62 
Notification 
(a) 
Identification numbers. Used oil burners who have not previously complied with the notification 
requirements of RCRA section 3010 must comply with these requirements and obtain an EPA 
identification number.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
33 
(b) 
Mechanics of notification. A used oil burner who has not received an EPA identification number 
may obtain one by notifying the Department of their used oil activity by submitting either: 
(1) 
A completed EPA Form 8700-12; or 
(2) 
A letter requesting an EPA identification number. Call the RCRA/Superfund Hotline to 
determine where to send a letter requesting an EPA identification number. The letter 
should include the following information: 
(i) 
Burner company name; 
(ii) 
Owner of the burner company; 
(iii) 
Mailing address for the burner; 
(iv) 
Name and telephone number for the burner point of contact; 
(v) 
Type of used oil activity; and 
(vi) 
Location of the burner facility. 
§ 279.63 
Rebuttable presumption for used oil. 
(a) 
To ensure that used oil managed at a used oil burner facility is not hazardous waste under the 
rebuttable presumption of § 279.10(b)(1)(ii), a used oil burner must determine whether the total 
halogen content of used oil managed at the facility is above or below 1,000 ppm. 
(b) 
The used oil burner must determine if the used oil contains above or below 1,000 ppm total 
halogens by: 
(1) 
Testing the used oil; 
(2) 
Applying knowledge of the halogen content of the used oil in light of the materials or 
processes used; or 
(3) 
If the used oil has been received from a processor/re-refiner subject to regulation under 
Subpart F of this part, using information provided by the processor/re refiner. 
(c) 
If the used oil contains greater than or equal to 1,000 ppm total halogens, it is presumed to be a 
hazardous waste because it has been mixed with halogenated hazardous waste listed in Subpart 
D of Part 261 of these regulations.The owner or operator may rebut the presumption by 
demonstrating that the used oil does not contain hazardous waste (for example, by showing that 
the used oil does not contain significant concentrations of halogenated hazardous constituents 
listed in Appendix VIII of Part 261 of these regulations). 
(1) 
The rebuttable presumption does not apply to metalworking oils/fluids containing 
chlorinated paraffins, if they are processed, through a tolling arrangement as described in 
§ 279.24(c), to reclaim metalworking oils/fluids. The presumption does apply to 
metalworking oils/fluids if such oils/fluids are recycled in any other manner, or disposed. 
(2) 
The rebuttable presumption does not apply to used oils contaminated with 
chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) removed from refrigeration units where the CFCs are 
destined for reclamation. The rebuttable presumption does apply to used oils 
contaminated with CFCs that have been mixed with used oil from sources other than 
refrigeration units.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
34 
(d) 
Record retention. Records of analyses conducted or information used to comply with paragraphs 
(a), (b), and (c) of this section must be maintained by the burner for at least 3 years. 
§ 279.64 
Used oil storage. 
Used oil burners are subject to all applicable Spill Prevention, Control and Countermeasures (40 CFR 
Part 112) in addition to the requirements of this subpart. Used oil burners are also subject to the 
Underground Storage Tank (40 CFR Part 280) standards for used oil stored in underground tanks 
whether or not the used oil exhibits any characteristics of hazardous waste, in addition to the 
requirements of this subpart. 
(a) 
Storage units. Used oil burners may not store used oil in units other than tanks, containers, or 
units subject to regulation under Part 264 or 265 of these regulations. 
(b) 
Condition of units. Containers and aboveground tanks used to store oil at burner facilities must 
be: 
(1) 
In good condition (no severe rusting, apparent structural defects or deterioration); and 
(2) 
Not leaking (no visible leaks). 
(c) 
Secondary containment for containers. Containers used to store used oil at burner facilities must 
be equipped with a secondary containment system. 
(1) 
The secondary containment system must consist of, at a minimum: 
(i) 
Dikes, berms or retaining walls; and 
(ii) 
A floor. The floor must cover the entire area within the dike, berm, or retaining 
wall. 
(2) 
The entire containment system, including walls and floor, must be sufficiently impervious 
to used oil to prevent any used oil released into the containment system from migrating 
out of the system to the soil, groundwater, or surface water. 
(d) 
Secondary containment for existing aboveground tanks. Existing aboveground tanks used to 
store used oil at burner facilities must be equipped with a secondary containment system. 
(1) 
The secondary containment system must consist of, at a minimum: 
(i) 
Dikes, berms or retaining walls; and 
(ii) 
A floor. The floor must cover the entire area within the dike, berm, or retaining 
wall except areas where existing portions of the tank meet the ground; or 
(iii) 
An equivalent secondary containment system. 
(2) 
The entire containment system, including walls and floor, must be sufficiently impervious 
to used oil to prevent any used oil released into the containment system from migrating 
out of the system to the soil, groundwater, or surface water. 
(e) 
Secondary containment for new aboveground tanks. New aboveground tanks used to store used 
oil at burner facilities must be equipped with a secondary containment system. 
(1) 
The secondary containment system must consist of, at a minimum:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
35 
(i) 
Dikes, berms or retaining walls; and 
(ii) 
A floor. The floor must cover the entire area within the dike, berm, or retaining 
wall; or 
(iii) 
An equivalent secondary containment system. 
(2) 
The entire containment system, including walls and floor, must be sufficiently impervious 
to used oil to prevent any used oil released into the containment system from migrating 
out of the system to the soil, groundwater, or surface water. 
(f) 
Labels. 
(1) 
Containers and aboveground tanks used to store used oil at burner facilities must be 
labeled or marked clearly with the words “Used Oil.” 
(2) 
Fill pipes used to transfer used oil into underground storage tanks at burner facilities must 
be labeled or marked clearly with the words “Used Oil.” 
(g) 
Response to releases. Upon detection of a release of used oil to the environment that is not 
subject to the requirements of 40 CFR Part 280, Subpart F, and which has occurred after the 
effective date of these regulations, a burner must perform the following cleanup steps: 
(1) 
Stop the release; 
(2) 
Contain the released used oil; 
(3) 
Clean up and manage properly the released used oil and other materials; and 
(4) 
If necessary, repair or replace any leaking used oil storage containers or tanks prior to 
returning them to service. 
§ 279.65 
Tracking. 
(a) 
Acceptance. Used oil burners must keep a record of each used oil shipment accepted for burning. 
These records may take the form of a log, invoice, manifest, bill of lading, or other shipping 
documents. Records for each shipment must include the following information: 
(1) 
The name and address of the transporter who delivered the used oil to the burner; 
(2) 
The name and address of the generator or processor/re-refiner from whom the used oil 
was sent to the burner; 
(3) 
The EPA identification number of the transporter who delivered the used oil to the burner; 
(4) 
The EPA identification number (if applicable) of the generator or processor/re-refiner from 
whom the used oil was sent to the burner; 
(5) 
The quantity of used oil accepted; and 
(6) 
The date of acceptance. 
(b) 
Record retention. The records described in paragraph (a) of this section must be maintained for 
at least three years.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
36 
§ 279.66 
Notices. 
(a) 
Certification. Before a burner accepts the first shipment of off-specification used oil fuel from a 
generator, transporter, or processor/re-refiner, the burner must provide to the generator, 
transporter, or processor/re-refiner a one-time written and signed notice certifying that: 
(1) 
The burner has notified EPA stating the location and general description of his used oil 
management activities; and 
(2) 
The burner will burn the used oil only in an industrial furnace or boiler identified in § 
279.61(a). 
(b) 
Certification retention. The certification described in paragraph (a) of this section must be 
maintained for three years from the date the burner last receives shipment of off-specification 
used oil from that generator, transporter, or processor/re-refiner. 
§ 279.67 
Management of residues. 
Burners who generate residues from the storage or burning of used oil must manage the residues as 
specified to § 279.10(e). 
Subpart H - Standards for Used Oil Fuel Marketers 
§ 279.70 
Applicability. 
(a) 
Any person who conducts either of the following activities is subject to the requirements of this 
subpart: 
(1) 
Directs a shipment of off-specification used oil from their facility to a used oil burner; or 
(2) 
First claims that used oil that is to be burned for energy recovery meets the used oil fuel 
specifications set forth in § 279.11. 
(b) 
The following persons are not marketers subject to this subpart: 
(1) 
Used oil generators, and transporters who transport used oil received only from 
generators, unless the generator or transporter directs a shipment of off specification 
used oil from their facility to a used oil burner. However, processors/re refiners who burn 
some used oil fuel for purposes of processing are considered to be burning incidentally to 
processing. Thus, generators and transporters who direct shipments of off specification 
used oil to processor/re refiners who incidentally burn used oil are not marketers subject 
to this subpart; 
(2) 
Persons who direct shipments of on specification used oil and who are not the first 
person to claim the oil meets the used oil fuel specifications of § 279.11. 
(c) 
Any person subject to the requirements of this subpart must also comply with one of the following: 
(1) 
Subpart C of this part -Standards for Used Oil Generators; 
(2) 
Subpart E of this part -Standards for Used Oil Transporters and Transfer Facilities; 
(3) 
Subpart F of this part -Standards for Used Oil Processors and Re refiners; or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
37 
(4) 
Subpart G of this part -Standards for Used Oil Burners who Burn Off Specification Used 
Oil for Energy Recovery. 
§ 279.71 
Prohibitions. 
A used oil fuel marketer may initiate a shipment of off specification used oil only to a used oil burner who: 
(a) 
Has an EPA identification number; and 
(b) 
Burns the used oil in an industrial furnace or boiler identified in § 279.61(a). 
§ 279.72 
On specification used oil fuel. 
(a) 
Analysis of used oil fuel. A generator, transporter, processor/re refiner, or burner may determine 
that used oil that is to be burned for energy recovery meets the fuel specifications of § 279.11 by 
performing analyses or obtaining copies of analyses or other information documenting that the 
used oil fuel meets the specifications. 
(b) 
Record retention. A generator, transporter, processor/re refiner, or burner who first claims that 
used oil that is to be burned for energy recovery meets the specifications for used oil fuel under § 
279.11, must keep copies of analyses of the used oil (or other information used to make the 
determination) for three years. 
§ 279.73 
Notification. 
(a) 
A used oil fuel marketer subject to the requirements of this subpart who has not previously 
complied with the notification requirements of RCRA Section 3010 must comply with these 
requirements and obtain an EPA identification number. 
(b) 
A marketer who has not received an EPA identification number may obtain one by notifying the 
Department of their used oil activity by submitting either: 
(1) 
A completed EPA Form 8700-12; or 
(2) 
A letter requesting an EPA identification number. The letter should include the following 
information: 
(i) 
Marketer company name; 
(ii) 
Owner of the marketer; 
(iii) 
Mailing address for the marketer; 
(iv) 
Name and telephone number for the marketer point of contact; and 
(v) 
Type of used oil activity (i.e., generator directing shipments of off specification 
used oil to a burner). 
§ 279.74 
Tracking. 
(a) 
Off specification used oil delivery. Any used oil marketer who directs a shipment of off 
specification used oil to a burner must keep a record of each shipment of used oil to a used oil 
burner. These records may take the form of a log, invoice, manifest, bill of lading or other 
shipping documents. Records for each shipment must include the following information:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
38 
(1) 
The name and address of the transporter who delivers the used oil to the burner; 
(2) 
The name and address of the burner who will receive the used oil; 
(3) 
The EPA identification number of the transporter who delivers the used oil to the burner; 
(4) 
The EPA identification number of the burner; 
(5) 
The quantity of used oil shipped; and 
(6) 
The date of shipment. 
(b) 
On specification used oil delivery. A generator, transporter, processor/re refiner, or burner who 
first claims that used oil that is to be burned for energy recovery meets the fuel specifications 
under § 279.11 must keep a record of each shipment of used oil to the facility to which it delivers 
the used oil. Records for each shipment must include the following information: 
(1) 
The name and address of the facility receiving the shipment; 
(2) 
The quantity of used oil fuel delivered; 
(3) 
The date of shipment or delivery, and 
(4) 
A cross-reference to the record of used oil analysis or other information used to make the 
determination that the oil meets the specification as required under § 279.72(a). 
(c) 
Record reference. The records described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section must be 
maintained at least three years. 
§ 279.75 
Notices. 
(a) 
Certification. Before a used oil generator, transporter, or processor/re-refiner directs the first 
shipment of off-specification used oil fuel to a burner, he/she must obtain a one-time written and 
signed notice from the burner certifying that: 
(1) 
The burner has notified EPA stating the location and general description of used oil 
management activities; and 
(2) 
The burner will burn the off-specification used oil only in an industrial furnace or boiler 
identified in § 279.61(a). 
(b) 
Certification retention. The certification described in paragraph (a) of this section must be 
maintained for three years from the date the last shipment of off-specification used oil is shipped 
to the burner. 
Subpart I - Standards for Disposal of Used Oil 
§ 279.80 
Applicability. 
The requirements of this subpart apply to all used oils that cannot be recycled and are therefore being 
disposed.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1007-3 Part 279 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division 
 
39 
§ 279.81 
Disposal. 
(a) 
Disposal of hazardous used oils. Used oils that are identified as a hazardous waste and cannot 
be recycled in accordance with this part must be managed in accordance with the hazardous 
waste management requirements of Parts 260 through 268, and Part 100 of these regulations. 
(b) 
Disposal of nonhazardous used oils. Used oils that are not hazardous wastes and cannot be 
recycled under this part must be disposed in accordance with the requirements of the Colorado 
Regulations Pertaining to Solid Waste Sites and Facilities (6 CCR 1007-2). 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
6 CCR 1007-3 has been divided into smaller sections for ease of use. Versions prior to 4/30/2004 and 
rule history are located in the first section, 6 CCR 1007-3. Prior versions can be accessed from the All 
Versions list on the rule’s current version page. To view versions effective after 4/30/2004, select the 
desired part of the rule, for example 6 CCR 1007-3 Part 260, or 6 CCR 1007-3 Part 8. 
History 
[For history of this section, see Editor’s Notes in the first section, 6 CCR 1007-3]
