---
id: "6_CCR_1010-11"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "6 CCR 1010-11"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=412&fileName=6%20CCR%201010-11&type=pdf"
---

#### 6_CCR_1010-11. 6 CCR 1010-11

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
SANITARY STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS FOR LABOR CAMPS 
6 CCR 1010-11 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
______________________________________________________________________ 
1.0 
ADMINISTRATION 
1.1 
AUTHORITY: Section 66-1-7(14), Colorado Revised Statutes 1963 
1.2 
ADOPTED: Colorado State Board of Health, June 18, 1968 
1.3 
EFFECTIVE DATE: August 1, 1968 
2.0 
DEFINITIONS 
For the purpose of these regulations: 
2.1 
Labor camp, hereinafter referred to as “camp,” includes one or more buildings or structures, 
trailers, tents or vehicles, together with any land appertaining thereto, established, operated or 
used as temporary living quarters for one or more persons engaged in agriculture, related food 
processing, industry, construction, commercial transportation or lumbering. 
2.2 
Person means an individual or group of individuals, association, partnership or corporation. 
2.3 
Camp operator means the person who owns, has charge, care or control of housing in labor 
camps as defined. 
2.4 
Shelter means any structure of one or more rooms, trailers, tents or vehicles which are used for 
sleeping or living quarters. 
2.5 
Habitable room means a room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used for living, 
sleeping, cooking or eating purposes -- excluding bathrooms, toilets, laundries, pantries, foyers or 
connecting corridors, closets or storage space. 
2.6 
Sanitary facilities means toilets, privies, wash basins, showers, tubs, laundry tubs, urinals and the 
rooms provided for installation and use of these units. 
2.7 
Refuse means all combustible or noncombustible, putrescible or non-putrescible solid or liquid 
wastes, including garbage, rubbish, ashes and sewage. 
2.8 
Garbage means all putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling, 
preparation, cooking and consumption of food. 
2.9 
Dwelling unit means one or more habitable rooms which are occupied or designed to be occupied 
by one family and which provides facilities for living, sleeping, cooking or dining. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-11 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
2 
2.10 
Family consists of two or more persons in the same household who are related to each other by 
blood, marriage or adoption. 
2.11 
Occupant means any person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking, eating or having 
actual possession of a building or part thereof. 
2.12 
Nuisance 
The following shall be defined as nuisances: 
a. 
Any public nuisance known at common law or in equity jurisprudence; 
b. 
An attractive nuisance known at common law or in equity jurisprudence; 
c. 
Whatever is dangerous to human life or detrimental to health; 
d. 
Overcrowding a room with occupants; 
e. 
Insufficient ventilation or illumination; 
f. 
Inadequate or unsanitary sewerage or plumbing facilities; 
g. 
Unsanitary conditions; 
h. 
Whatever renders air, food or drink unwholesome or detrimental to the health of human 
beings. 
3.0 
CAMP SITE 
3.1 
All camp sites shall be well drained, graded and surfaced, where necessary, and free from 
depressions in which water may stagnate. 
3.2 
No camp shall be located on a site which is subject to or may cause health or safety hazards, 
unless acceptable safeguards are provided. 
3.3 
No camp structure shall be located less than 50 feet from any barns, pens or similar quarters for 
livestock or poultry. 
3.4 
Where electric service is available within 500 feet of the premises, all camp sites shall be lighted 
at night to illuminate the grounds and buildings adequately. All camp sites shall be adequate in 
size with buildings so located as to facilitate fire, flood, safety and disease control. 
3.5 
The camp grounds shall be maintained in a clean, safe and sanitary condition. All garbage and 
refuse shall be collected by the occupants and disposed of by the camp operator so as to prevent 
nuisance conditions. All camp grounds, buildings and facilities shall be left by the occupants in a 
clean and sanitary condition. 
3.6 
The camp operator shall be responsible for the clean, safe and sanitary condition of the premises 
prior to each occupancy.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-11 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
3 
4.0 
WATER SUPPLY 
4.1 
The camp water system shall be designed, constructed and protected so as to assure that safe, 
potable and adequate water supply is produced for domestic purposes in compliance with 
Colorado Department of Health regulations. 
4.2 
No surface or cistern water supply shall be used except under conditions approved by the 
Colorado Department of Health. When such a facility is approved for use, water shall be obtained 
from an acceptable source and transported in an approved tank. Such stored water shall contain 
a chlorine residual of at least 0.3 p.p.m. 
4.3 
Well and cistern water supplies, not under pressure, shall be properly protected and provided with 
an enclosed, self-priming type pump. Open pitcher pumps are not permitted. 
4.4 
Where water is distributed under pressure, the water supply system shall deliver water at normal 
operating pressures (minimum 20 lbs. per square inch) to all fixtures at a rate of at least 20 
percent of the total daily required volume needed for any one hour peak use period. The water 
supply system shall be capable of delivering at least 35 gallons of water per person per day. 
4.5 
Potable drinking water shall be readily available to both shed and field workers. The use of 
common drinking cups is prohibited. All tanks and receptacles used for storage or dispensing of 
water must be constructed so that water will be kept in a clean and sanitary condition. 
4.6 
Adequate facilities for providing hot water for bathing, laundering and dishwashing purposes shall 
be available in all camps. 
4.7 
In existing camps, all shelters or habitable areas shall be located within 100 feet of a water supply 
outlet. Drainage facilities shall be provided to accommodate the overflow or spillage from such 
outlets to prevent contamination or nuisance conditions. 
4.8 
In all camps hereafter constructed, water under pressure shall be supplied to all dwelling units 
and to all other buildings in which cooking is permitted or which contain toilet, bathing, laundry or 
dishwashing facilities. 
5.0 
SEWAGE DISPOSAL 
5.1 
Facilities shall be provided and properly maintained in all camps for the disposal or treatment and 
disposal of excreta and liquid wastes. 
5.2 
Where public sewer systems are available, all building sewers shall be connected thereto. If 
public sewer systems are not available, private sewage disposal systems which meet the 
requirements of the Colorado Water Pollution Control Commission shall be installed. 
5.3 
Toilet and handwashing facilities, for use by shed and field workers, shall be provided within one-
quarter of a mile from the farthest point of the work site at the rate of one for every 25 persons of 
each sex. If less than 10 persons are employed at the site, one toilet and handwashing facility 
may be shared by both sexes. 
6.0 
GARBAGE AND OTHER REFUSE DISPOSAL 
6.1 
Metal containers with tight fitting lids shall be provided for handling, storing and disposing of 
garbage and refuse to control odors, insects, rodents and other nuisance conditions.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-11 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
4 
7.0 
INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL 
7.1 
Rodents and insects shall be controlled by establishing sanitary practices, insect and rodent 
proofing of buildings, extermination or other safe and effective control methods. 
8.0 
SHELTER 
8.1 
Dwellings and service buildings may be of any type construction, but shall be structurally sound, 
provide protection for the occupants against the elements and shall be so constructed as to 
facilitate cleaning and afford privacy. Shelter structures shall be maintained in good repair and in 
a clean and safe condition. Tents may be used not to exceed 14 days per season, subject to prior 
approval of the health department. 
8.2 
Floors of habitable buildings, including tents, shall be constructed of wood, asphalt, concrete or 
other comparable materials and shall be smooth finished with an elevation of at least six inches 
above surrounding grade and so located as to prevent the entrance of ground and surface water. 
8.3 
In all shelters, hereafter constructed, not. less than two rooms or partitioned areas shall be 
provided for each family composed of husband and wife or one parent and one or more children 
six years of age or older, except that separate sleeping rooms or partitioned areas shall be 
provided for children of the opposite sex over 10 years of age. When single workers are housed, 
separate sleeping accommodations shall be provided for each sex. 
8.4 
In all shelters, each room designed or used for sleeping purposes shall contain at least 50 square 
feet of floor area for each occupant six years of age or older and 25 square feet of floor area for 
each person under six years of age. When double deck bunk beds are used, at least 35 square 
feet of floor area for each person six years of age or older and 25 square feet for those under six 
years of age shall be provided. 
Not less than 60 square feet of floor area shall be provided for each person for combined eating, 
sleeping and cooking purposes. In a house trailer or vehicle furnished by a person other than the 
occupant, there shall be at least 20 square feet of clear floor area for each person sleeping 
therein. 
8.5 
At least one-half of the floor area of each habitable room shall have a minimum ceiling height of 
seven feet. No floor area shall be counted where the ceiling height is less than five feet. No 
habitable room, except kitchens, shall be less than seven feet in any dimension. 
8.6 
Each habitable room shall have at least one window opening directly to the out-of-doors. The 
minimum total window area shall be at least 10 percent of the floor area of each room. At least 
one-half of the required window area shall be openable. 
All exterior openings of habitable and service buildings shall be protected with fly screening of not 
less than 16 mesh. All screen doors shall be equipped with self-closing devices. 
8.7 
All buildings, in which 10 or more people sleep or eat, or otherwise occupy, shall have not less 
than two exits leading to the outside or to a public corridor leading to the outside. Exits shall be so 
located on each floor as to provide alternate means of egress. Sliding and overhead rolling doors 
are not approved as meeting exit requirements.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-11 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
5 
A landing shall be provided beyond each exterior door opening and beyond each interior doorway 
opening to a stairway. Such landings shall have a width and depth of not less than the door 
opening. 
8.8 
In dwelling units having an occupancy of less than 10 persons, one of the required exits may be 
an openable window if it is sufficient in size and affords safe access to the ground level. 
8.9 
Each dwelling unit shall have direct access to the outside or to a common hallway which has 
access to the outside. 
8.10 
All stairways with four or more risers shall be provided with a handrail. The rise of each step in a 
stairway shall not exceed eight inches, and the run (tread) shall not be less than eight inches. 
Every stairway shall have headroom clearance of not less than six feet. 
9.0 
HEATING 
9.1 
Where climatic conditions require artificial heating, all dwellings and shower rooms shall be 
provided with heating facilities which are properly installed, maintained in a safe working condition 
and which are capable of maintaining a room temperature of sixty-eight degrees Fahrenheit (68° 
F.) in all habitable rooms. 
9.2 
No open flame gas or oil fired kitchen stoves, hot plates or unvented heaters shall be approved 
for heating purposes. 
10.0 
LIGHTING 
10.1 
Where electric service is available within 500 feet of the premises, each habitable and service 
room shall be provided with at least one ceiling-type light fixture and at least one separate electric 
convenience outlet. Electric wiring shall be installed and maintained in accordance with provisions 
of the National Electrical Code. 
11.0 
HOUSEHOLD EQUIPMENT AND FURNISHINGS 
11.1 
All dwellings shall be provided with sufficient basic household equipment. This equipment shall 
include tables, chairs, beds and shelving or hooks for storing clothing. 
11.2 
Suitable sleeping facilities shall be available for each occupant, consisting of beds, bunks or cots 
complete with springs and mattresses, which shall be clean, in good repair and so constructed as 
to afford reasonable comfort. 
11.3 
Mattresses and pads with covers, bed covers and other bedding, if furnished by the operator, 
shall be in a sanitary condition upon each change of occupancy. 
11.4 
Every bed, bunk or cot shall have a clear space of at least 12 inches from the floor. Triple-deck 
bunk facilities are prohibited, and multiple occupancy of double beds shall be allowed only in 
family groups. Single beds shall be spaced not closer than 36 inches laterally or end to end. 
Double-deck facilities shall be spaced not less than 48 inches laterally or 36 inches end to end. 
There shall be a clear ceiling height above a mattress of not less than 36 inches and a clear 
space of at least 27 inches between the mattresses of a double-deck bunk.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-11 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
6 
12.0 
COOKING AND EATING FACILITIES 
12.1 
All housing, whether for single family or common use, shall be provided with a space equipped for 
use as a kitchen. Sufficient counters, shelves, stoves and dishwashing equipment shall be 
provided. If electricity is available, mechanical refrigeration shall be provided. 
12.2 
Physical facilities and the operation and maintenance of centralized food service operation shall 
conform to the physical and operational requirements of the Colorado Restaurant Sanitation 
Laws, Rules and Regulations. 
13.0 
TOILET, LAVATORY, BATHING AND LAUNDRY FACILITIES 
13.1 
Toilet, lavatory, bathing and laundry facilities shall be installed and provided in the minimum 
numbers required by provisions of the Colorado Plumbing Regulations, when water under 
pressure is available to the camp. 
13.2 
When water under pressure is not available to the camp, equivalent facilities shall be provided. 
13.3 
In multiple family or dormitory occupancies, required sanitary facilities are as follows: 
a. 
Toilets 
One for each 10 persons of each sex; 
b. 
Urinals 
One for each 25 males; 
Urinals may be substituted for up to one-third of the required number of toilets; 
Twenty-four inches of trough urinals shall be considered the equivalent of one urinal or 
toilet. 
Men's toilet rooms with water closets, hereafter constructed, shall also include urinals. 
c. 
Lavatories 
One for each 10 persons or 24 lineal inches of a wash sink, tray or trough. 
d. 
Bathing Facilities 
One for each 10 persons; 
e. 
Other Fixtures 
A kitchen sink shall be required in each dwelling unit hereafter remodeled or constructed. 
13.4 
If separate dwelling unit structures are used, individual or centralized sanitary facilities shall be 
provided as follows: 
a. 
Toilets 
One for each dwelling unit or one for each 10 persons of each sex;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-11 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
7 
b. 
Lavatories 
One for each dwelling unit or one for each 10 persons of each sex; 
c. 
Bathing Facilities 
One for each dwelling unit or one for each 10 persons of each sex; 
d. 
Other Fixtures 
A kitchen sink shall be required in each dwelling unit hereafter remodeled or constructed. 
13.5 
Hot and cold water under pressure shall be supplied to all required plumbing fixtures except that 
cold water only shall be supplied to water closets. Tempered water may be delivered to showers 
and sinks to conserve heat and heating equipment. 
13.6 
Required plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in good working order and in a clean and sanitary 
condition. 
13.7 
Service buildings housing such required fixtures shall be constructed of easily cleaned, non-
absorbent materials, maintained in good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition and 
conveniently located at a distance of not more than 200 feet from any dwelling structures. 
13.8 
In multiple family and group type occupancies where sanitary facilities are shared, separate 
rooms containing required plumbing fixtures shall be provided for each sex. If located in the same 
building, they shall be separated by a solid wall extending from floor to ceiling. These rooms shall 
be marked distinctly “For Men” or “For Women.” 
13.9 
Shower heads shall be spaced at least three feet apart with a minimum of nine square feet of 
floor area per shower head.  Dressing room space, equivalent to the size of the shower floor area 
shall be provided adjacent to bathing facilities. No toilet space shall be less than 30 inches in 
width, and there shall be no less than 30 inches of clear space in front of a toilet. 
13.10 
The floors of utility buildings shall have a smooth, impermeable and easily cleaned surface, 
sloped to drain. Floor drains, properly trapped, shall be provided in all shower baths and shower 
rooms to remove waste water and to facilitate cleaning. The walls and partitions of such buildings 
shall be constructed of smooth, non-absorbent materials and finished to the splash level. 
14.0 
PRIVIES 
14.1 
Privies shall not be located less than 50 feet nor more than 200 feet from any shelter they serve 
and shall be so constructed and maintained as to meet the rules and regulations of the Colorado 
Water Pollution Control Commission. 
14.2 
Privies shall be constructed with tight fitting and self-closing doors, impervious floors and risers.  
They shall be fly-tight and maintained in good repair and in clean condition.  Each privy building 
shall be ventilated by a screened opening of at least 144 square inches.  Seat risers shall be of 
reasonable height and shall be maintained in good repair.  The pit shall be covered when excreta 
reaches a point one foot below ground level and the privy moved to a new location.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-11 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
8 
14.3 
Except for those serving single family dwellings, separate privy facilities shall be provided for 
each sex. Privy seats for each sex shall be provided in the ratio of not less than one such unit for 
each 10 persons. 
15.0 
FIRE PROTECTION 
15.1 
All premises; the buildings and related facilities shall be maintained and used in a manner as to 
prevent fire in accordance with applicable local fire prevention regulations. 
16.0 
PENALTIES 
16.1 
Pertinent sections of Colorado Revised Statutes 1963 read as follows: 
“66.1-14. UNLAWFUL ACTS -- PENALTIES. -- (1) 
(a) 
It shall be unlawful for any person, association, or corporation, and the officers 
thereof: 
(b) 
To willfully violate, disobey or disregard the provisions of the public health laws or 
the terms of any lawful notice, order, standard, rule or regulation issued pursuant 
thereto; or 
(g) 
To willfully fail to remove from private property under his control at his own 
expense, within forty-eight hours after being ordered so to do by the health 
authorities, any nuisance, source of filth, or cause of sickness within the 
jurisdiction and control of the department, whether such person, association, or 
corporation shall be the owner, tenant or occupant of such private property; 
provided that when any such condition is due to an act of God, it shall be 
removed at public expense… 
(4) 
Any person, association, or corporation, or the officers thereof, who shall violate 
any provision of this section, upon conviction, shall be fined not to exceed one 
thousand dollars or be imprisoned, for not to exceed one year, or be both fined 
and imprisoned, and in addition to such fine and imprisonment shall be liable for 
any expense incurred by health authorities in removing any nuisance, source of 
filth, or cause of sickness. Conviction under the penalty provisions of this article 
or any other public health law shall not relieve any persons from any civil action 
in damages that may exist for any injury resulting from any violation of the public 
health laws.” 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History
