---
id: "6_CCR_1014-9"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "6 CCR 1014-9"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=11816&fileName=6%20CCR%201014-9&type=pdf"
---

#### 6_CCR_1014-9. 6 CCR 1014-9

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
State Board of Health 
COLORADO MINIMUM QUALITY STANDARDS FOR PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICES 
6 CCR 1014-9 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Section 1 – Purpose and Authority for Rule 
1.1 
This rule recognizes that each community in Colorado should provide high-quality public health 
services regardless of its location. 
1.2 
This rule recognizes that through the adoption of measurable standards for public health services, 
Colorado’s public health system will continuously improve the quality of its services and 
programs, demonstrate accountability, and raise public health capacity. 
1.3 
This rule uses national standards developed by the Public Health Accreditation Board as a basis 
to direct local public health agencies across Colorado to work toward a level of capacity and 
process that is indicative of a widely accepted definition of a well-functioning public health 
agency. 
1.4 
This rule further recognizes that local public health agencies are essential to the provision of 
quality and comprehensive public health services throughout the state and are critical partners 
with the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment in maintaining a strong public 
health system. 
1.5 
This regulation is adopted pursuant to the authority in section 25-1-503 et seq., C.R.S. and is 
intended to be consistent with the requirements of the State Administrative Procedures Act, 
section 24-4-101 et seq. (the “APA”), C.R.S. 
Section 2 – Definitions 
2.1 
All definitions that appear in Section 25-1-502, C.R.S., shall apply to these rules. 
2.2. 
“Agency” means a county or district public health agency established pursuant to Section 25-1-
506, C.R.S., or a municipal public health agency established pursuant to Section 25-1-507, 
C.R.S. 
2.3 
“Core public health” shall be defined by the state board and shall include, but need not be limited 
to, the assessment of health status and health risks, development of policies to protect and 
promote health, and the assurance of provision of the essential public health services. 
A. 
Core Public Health Services were defined by the State Board of Health in 6 CCR 1014-7 
(01/01/2020), and are comprised of foundational capabilities and foundational public 
health services: 
1. 
Foundational capabilities in Colorado shall include, but need not be limited to the 
following: 
a. 
Assessment and Planning 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-9 
State Board of Health 
 
2 
b. 
Communications 
c. 
Policy Development and Support 
d. 
Partnerships 
e. 
Organizational Competencies 
i. 
Accountability, Performance Management and Quality 
Improvement 
ii. 
Human Resources 
iii. 
Legal Services and Analysis 
iv. 
Financial Management, Contract and Procurement Services and 
Facilities Management 
v. 
Information Technology/Informatics (IT) 
vi. 
Leadership and Governance 
f. 
Emergency Preparedness and Response 
g. 
Health Equity/Social Determinants of Health 
2. 
Foundational public health services in Colorado shall include, but need not be 
limited to the following: 
a. 
Communicable Disease Prevention, Investigation, and Control 
b. 
Environmental Health 
c. 
Maternal, Child, Adolescent and Family Health 
d. 
Chronic Disease and Injury Prevention and Behavioral Health Promotion 
e. 
Access to/Linkage with Clinical Health Care 
2.4. 
In addition, the definitions listed below shall apply to these rules. 
A. 
“Standards” means a level of recommended achievement against which a local public 
health agency may compare its current activities, and may include, but is not limited to, 
performance standards, performance management standards, descriptive standards, 
and, or quality standards. 
Section 3 – Minimum Quality Standards for Public Health Services: 
3.1. 
Each county and district public local health department subject to Section 25-1-501 et seq., 
C.R.S., should meet the following Minimum Quality Standards through the ongoing process of 
continuous quality improvement: 
A. 
Assess and monitor population health status, factors that influence health, and 
community needs and assets.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-9 
State Board of Health 
 
3 
1. 
Participate in or lead a collaborative process resulting in a comprehensive 
community health assessment. 
2. 
Collect and share data that provide information on conditions of public health 
importance and on the health status of the population. 
3. 
Analyze public health data, share findings, and use results to improve population 
health. 
B. 
Investigate, diagnose, and address health problems and hazards affecting the population. 
1. 
Anticipate, prevent, and mitigate health threats through surveillance and 
investigation of health problems and environmental hazards. 
2. 
Prepare for and respond to emergencies. 
C. 
Communicate effectively to inform and educate people about health, factors that 
influence it, and how to improve it. 
1. 
Provide information on public health issues and public health functions through 
multiple methods to a variety of audiences. 
2. 
Use health communication strategies to support prevention, health, and well-
being. 
D. 
Strengthen, support, and mobilize communities and partnerships to improve health. 
1. 
Engage with the public health system and the community in promoting health 
through collaborative processes. 
E. 
Create, champion, and implement policies, plans, and laws that impact health. 
1. 
Serve as a primary and expert resource for establishing and maintaining health 
policies and laws. 
2. 
Develop and implement community health improvement strategies 
collaboratively. 
F. 
Utilize legal and regulatory actions designed to improve and protect the public’s health. 
1. 
Promote compliance with public health laws. 
G. 
Contribute to an effective system that enables equitable access to the individual services 
and care needed to be healthy. 
1. 
Engage with partners in the health care system to assess and improve health 
service availability. 
2. 
Connect the population to services that support the whole person. 
H. 
Build and support a diverse and skilled public health workforce. 
1. 
Encourage the development and recruitment of qualified public health workers.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-9 
State Board of Health 
 
4 
2. 
Build a competent public health workforce and leadership that practices cultural 
humility. 
I. 
Improve and innovate public health functions through ongoing evaluation, research, and 
continuous quality improvement. 
1. 
Build and foster a culture of quality. 
2. 
Use and contribute to developing research, evidence, practice-based insights, 
and other forms of information for decision making. 
J. 
Build and maintain a strong organizational infrastructure for public health. 
1. 
Employ strategic planning skills. 
2. 
Manage financial, information management, and human resources effectively. 
3. 
Foster accountability and transparency within the organizational infrastructure to 
support ethical practice, decision-making, and governance. 
3.2. 
Provision of the Minimum Quality Standards shall be in accordance with the Core Public Health 
Services as defined in 6 CCR 1014-7. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 03/17/2013. 
Entire rule eff. 01/14/2025.
