---
id: "6_CCR_1010-21"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "6 CCR 1010-21"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12360&fileName=6%20CCR%201010-21&type=pdf"
---

#### 6_CCR_1010-21. 6 CCR 1010-21

1 
COLORADO DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
COLORADO WHOLESALE FOOD AND SHELLFISH REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-21 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_____________________________________________________________________ 
Adopted by the Board of Health on November 19, 2025. 
21.1 Authority 
This regulation is adopted pursuant to Sections 25-4-1805, 25-5-420(1), and 25-5-
426(1), Colorado Revised Statute (C.R.S.) and is consistent with the requirements of 
the State Administrative Procedure Act, Section 24-4-101, et seq., C.R.S. 
21.2 Scope and Purpose 
A. 
This regulation shall be applied for the protection of public health by ensuring that 
the premises or places wherein manufactured foods are produced, 
manufactured, packed, processed, prepared, treated, packaged, transported, or 
held for distribution are in accordance with the “Pure Food and Drug Law”, 
Section 25-5-401 et seq., C.R.S. and the “Shellfish Dealer Certification Act,” 
Section 25-4-1801 et seq., C.R.S. 
B. 
This regulation shall govern the registration of wholesale food manufacturers. 
Along with the powers and duties delineated in Section 25-5-420 et seq., C.R.S., 
Section 25-5-426(3), C.R.S., provides the department the power and duty: 
1. 
To grant or refuse to grant registration pursuant to Section 25-5-426(4), 
C.R.S. and to grant or refuse to grant the annual renewal of a registration; 
2. 
To deny, suspend, or revoke a registration; 
3. 
To issue a certificate of free sale; and 
4. 
To review any records of a wholesale food manufacturer or storage facility 
necessary to verify compliance with the provisions of Section 25-5-426, 
C.R.S. 
C. 
This regulation does not apply to: 
1. 
Retail food establishments governed by the Colorado Retail Food 
Establishment Regulations, 6 CCR 1010-2; 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-21 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
2 
2. 
Facilities or conditions governed by the Colorado Milk and Dairy Products 
Regulations, 6 CCR 1010-4; 
3. 
Hemp manufacturers or storage facilities, hemp products, or safe harbor 
hemp products as defined and regulated under authority established in 25-
5-427, C.R.S. 
D. 
Nothing in this rule shall be construed to limit the department’s statutory authority 
under the “Pure Food and Drug Law”, Section 25-5-401 et seq., C.R.S., the 
“Shellfish Dealer Certification Act,” Section 25-4-1801 et seq., C.R.S., or Section 
25-1.5-102, C.R.S. 
21.3 Applicability 
A. 
This rule establishes registration requirements for wholesale food manufacturers, 
Section 25-5- 426, C.R.S., and certification requirements for wholesale food 
manufacturers who are also shellfish dealers, Section 25-4-1801 et seq., C.R.S. 
B. 
This rule incorporates by reference the Code of Federal Regulations addressing 
Food for Human Consumption and the national shellfish sanitation standards. 
C. 
Pursuant to Section 21.6, this rule incorporates by reference 21 Code of Federal 
Regulations (C.F.R.) 100-111, 113-170, and 172-190 (April 1, 2017). 
D. 
This rule establishes enforcement standards for wholesale food manufacturers 
pursuant to Sections 25-1.5-102(1)(c), 25-5-406 and 25-5-420, C.R.S., and 
enforcement standards for wholesale food manufacturers who are also shellfish 
dealers pursuant to Section 25-4-1810, C.R.S. 
21.4 Definitions 
A. 
For the purpose of these rules and regulations, unless otherwise specified 
herein: 
1. 
Approved Source means a product from a wholesale food manufacturer or 
a storage facility registered with the department in accordance with 
Section 25-5-426, C.R.S. 
2. 
Dealer or Shellfish Dealer means a person to whom certification is issued 
for the activities of shell stock shipper, shucker-packer, repacker, 
reshipper, depuration processor, or wet storage. 
3. 
Wholesale food manufacturer means a facility that manufactures, 
produces, packs, processes, treats, packages, transports, or holds human 
food, including dietary supplements. These terms include storage facilities. 
These terms include shellfish dealers when the wholesale food 
manufacturer is also a shellfish dealer.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-21 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
3 
21.5 Wholesale Food Manufacturer and Shellfish Dealer Requirements 
A. 
Wholesale food manufacturing facilities in Colorado must be registered in 
accordance with Section 25-5-426(4), C.R.S. 
1. 
The owner of any wholesale food manufacturer must submit to the 
department an application each year for registration, along with applicable 
application and registration fees, using forms provided by the department. 
2. 
The owner of any wholesale food manufacturer must also submit to the 
department complete and accurate information about the facility’s 
operation and business size, using forms provided by the department. 
B. 
Wholesale food manufacturers who are also shellfish dealers in Colorado must 
also be certified in accordance with Section 25-4-1805, C.R.S. 
1. 
Any person desiring to do business as a shellfish dealer must apply for 
and obtain a valid certification issued by the department. 
2. 
Shellfish dealers must report to the department, in the form and manner 
required by the department, any change in the information provided in the 
dealer’s application or in such reports previously submitted, within thirty 
days of such change. 
21.6 Incorporation by Reference 
A. 
The department shall utilize material incorporated by reference as appropriate to 
assure that wholesale food manufacturers comply with the “Pure Food and Drug 
Law”, and wholesale food manufacturers who are also shellfish dealers comply 
with the “Shellfish Dealer Certification Act.” 
1. 
21 C.F.R. 100-190 (April 1, 2017) is hereby incorporated by reference into 
this rule. Such incorporation, however, excludes later amendments to or 
editions of the reference material. 
2. 
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health 
Service/Food and Drug Administration, National Shellfish Sanitation 
Program Guide for the Control of Molluscan Shellfish Model Ordinance 
(2023 Revision) is hereby incorporated by reference into this rule. Such 
incorporation, however, excludes later amendments to or editions of the 
reference material. 
B. 
Any provision included or incorporated herein by reference which conflicts with 
the Colorado Revised Statutes, including but not limited to Section 25-5-401 et 
seq., C.R.S., Section 25-4-1801 et seq., C.R.S., and Section 25-1.5-102, C.R.S., 
shall be null and void. These regulations do not incorporate by reference:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-21 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
4 
1. 
21 C.F.R. 112, Standards for the Growing, Harvesting, Packing, and 
Holding of Produce for Human Consumption. 
2. 
21 C.F.R. 171, Food Additive Petitions. 
C. 
The incorporated material is available for public inspection during regular 
business hours at: 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment 
4300 Cherry Creek Drive South 
Denver, Colorado 80246-1530 
Pursuant to 24-4-103(12.5)(V)(b), C.R.S., the agency shall provide certified 
copies of the material incorporated at cost upon request or shall provide the 
requestor with information on how to obtain a certified copy of the material 
incorporated by reference from the agency of the United States, this state, 
another state, or the organization or association originally issuing the code, 
standard, guideline or rule. 
D. 
The incorporated materials are available at: 
1. 
21 C.F.R. 100–190 - https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-21 
2. 
NSSP Shellfish Ordinance - https://www.fda.gov/food/federal-state-local-
tribal-and-territorial-cooperative-human-food-programs/national-shellfish-
sanitation-program-nssp 
21.7 Enforcement 
A. 
1. 
Wholesale food manufacturers that fail to submit a complete and accurate 
annual application for registration, or fail to remit fees in accordance with Section 
25-5-426(4), C.R.S., are not considered an approved source for introduction of 
manufactured food into retail commerce. 
2. 
Wholesale food manufacturers who are also shellfish dealers that fail to 
submit a complete and accurate annual application for certification are not 
considered an approved source for introduction of shellfish into retail 
commerce. 
B. 
Adulterated or misbranded food, including food from unapproved sources, may 
be embargoed in accordance with Section 25-5-406, C.R.S. 
C. 
In accordance with Section 25-1.5-102(1)(c), C.R.S., the department may require 
wholesale food manufacturers, including wholesale food manufacturers who are

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-21 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
5 
also shellfish dealers, to recall adulterated or misbranded food in order to 
investigate and control the causes of epidemic and communicable diseases 
affecting public health. 
D. 
Pursuant to Sections 25-4-1810 and 25-5-420, C.R.S., if the department has 
reasonable cause to believe a violation of this regulation has occurred and 
immediate enforcement is necessary, it may issue a cease-and-desist order, 
which shall set forth the provisions alleged to have been violated, the facts 
constituting the violation, and the requirement that all violating actions 
immediately cease. 
1. 
At any time after service of the order to cease and desist by certified mail, 
the person for whom such order was served may request a hearing to 
determine whether such violation has occurred. Such hearing will be 
conducted in conformance with the provisions of article 4 of title 24, C.R.S. 
and shall be determined promptly. 
E. 
To the extent and manner authorized by law, the department may issue letters of 
admonition or may deny, suspend, refuse to renew, restrict, or revoke any 
wholesale food manufacturer registration or any shellfish dealer certification if the 
wholesale food manufacturer or wholesale food manufacturer who is also a 
shellfish dealer has: 
1. 
Refused or failed to comply with any provision of this regulation or any 
lawful order of the department; 
2. 
Had an equivalent certification or registration denied, revoked, or 
suspended by another authority, including but not limited to another state, 
or the U.S. Food and Drug Administration; 
3. 
Refused to provide the department with reasonable, complete, and 
accurate information when requested by the department; or 
4. 
Falsified any information submitted to the department. 
F. 
In addition to the requirements herein, when the department determines that a 
wholesale food manufacturer who is also a shellfish dealer’s activity constitutes a 
major public health threat, the department shall cooperate with other authorities 
pursuant to Section 25-4-1805(5), C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-21 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
6 
_____________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 10/15/2018. 
Entire rule eff. 04/14/2021. 
Entire rule eff. 01/14/2024. 
Entire rule eff. 01/14/2026.
