---
id: "6_CCR_1009-4"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "6 CCR 1009-4"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=11727&fileName=6%20CCR%201009-4&type=pdf"
---

#### 6_CCR_1009-4. 6 CCR 1009-4

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
Center for Health and Environmental Data 
REPORTING AND COLLECTING MEDICAL AID-IN-DYING MEDICATION INFORMATION 
6 CCR 1009-4 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Adopted by the Board of Health on October 16, 2024. Effective December 15, 2024. 
I. 
Definitions 
A. 
“Attending provider,” as used herein, shall be the attending physician or advanced practice 
registered nurse defined in Section 25-48-102 (2), C.R.S., who prescribes medical aid-in-dying 
medication pursuant to Article 48, Title 25, C.R.S. 
B. 
“Health Care Provider,” as used herein, shall be the person defined in Section 25-48-102(4), 
C.R.S., who fulfills the attending provider’s written prescription for medical aid-in-dying 
medication, dispenses the medical aid-in-dying medication directly to the patient, the attending 
provider or an individual expressly designated by the patient. 
II. 
Requirements for Reporting Medical Record Information to the Department 
A. 
Within 30 calendar days of writing a prescription for medical aid-in-dying medication to end the 
life of a qualified patient, the attending provider or the attending provider’s designee, shall submit, 
in the form prescribed by the Department, the following: 
1. 
Patient's name and date of birth; 
2. 
Dates of all oral requests made by the patient; 
3. 
The prescribing attending provider’s name, mailing address and phone number; 
4. 
The patient's completed written request for medical aid-in-dying medication to end life 
that complies with Section 25-48-112, C.R.S.; 
5. 
The attending provider’s: 
a. 
Diagnosis of a terminal disease; 
b. 
Prognosis of six months or less; 
c. 
Mental capacity determination that documents that the individual is making a 
voluntary and informed request; 
d. 
Notation(s) of notification provided to the patient of the right to rescind a request 
made for medical aid-in-dying medication; 
e. 
Notation of the medical aid-in-dying medications prescribed, dose and date 
prescribed to the patient; 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-4 
Office of e-Health and Data 
 
2 
f. 
If applicable: 
i) 
Notation and date when the medical aid-in-dying medication was 
dispensed directly by the attending provider, or 
ii) 
If the attending provider delivered a written prescription to a licensed 
pharmacist, the name and phone number of the pharmacist and the 
pharmacy, and a notation that the pharmacy was informed that medical 
aid-in-dying medication was prescribed pursuant to Article 48, Title 25, 
C.R.S., and the date of the notification, and; 
g. 
Notation that all requirements under Article 48, Title 25, C.R.S. have been 
satisfied and indicating the steps taken to carry out the patient’s request. 
6. 
The consulting provider’s name, mailing address and phone number and a copy of the 
consulting provider’s written confirmation of the attending provider’s diagnosis, prognosis, 
and mental capacity determination. 
7. 
If obtained by the provider, a written confirmation of mental capacity from a licensed 
mental health provider. 
B. 
All information submitted pursuant to this Section II will be submitted by mail or secure e-mail as 
directed by the Department. 
III. 
Requirements for Reporting Dispensing Record Information to the Department 
A. 
Pursuant to Section 25-48-111(2)(b), C.R.S., within 10 calendar days of dispensing medication 
pursuant to the Act, the health care provider dispensing a medical aid-in-dying medication shall 
submit to the Department a completed, signed and dated copy of the dispensing record. The 
health care provider shall submit, in the form prescribed by the Department, the following: 
1. 
Patient's name and date of birth; 
2. 
Prescribing provider’s name and phone number; 
3. 
Dispensing health care provider's name, address and phone number; 
4. 
Medication dispensed and quantity; 
5. 
Date the prescription was written, and; 
6. 
Date the medication was dispensed. 
B. 
All information submitted pursuant to this Section III will be submitted by mail or secure e-mail as 
directed by the Department. 
IV. 
Confidentiality 
Except as otherwise required by law, all information collected pursuant to Section 25-48-111(2), C.R.S. 
and this rule, is confidential.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-4 
Office of e-Health and Data 
 
3 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule emer. rule eff. 01/18/2017; expired 05/18/2017. 
Entire rule eff. 06/14/2017. 
Entire rule eff. 12/15/2024.
