---
id: "6_CCR_1015-12"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "6 CCR 1015-12"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12450&fileName=6%20CCR%201015-12&type=pdf"
---

#### 6_CCR_1015-12. 6 CCR 1015-12

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH & ENVIRONMENT 
Prevention Services Division 
OPIOID ANTAGONIST AVAILABILITY 
6 CCR 1015-12 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
Adopted by the Board of Health on January 21 2026, effective March 17 2026. 
Regulation 1: 
Establishment of the new eligibility list and opioid antagonist 
pricing for the Opioid Antagonist Bulk Purchase Fund. 
1.1 
Statement of Purpose 
These rules create the eligibility list for the Opioid Antagonist Bulk Purchase Fund. The 
entities listed in Section 1.4 of this rule are permitted to enroll in the Opioid Antagonist 
Bulk Purchase Fund to receive no cost opioid antagonists, provided they comply with 
the requirements established by the Minnesota Multistate Contracting Alliance for 
Pharmacy (MMCAP Infuse). MMCAP Infuse will not directly contract with entities 
enrolled in the Opioid Antagonist Bulk Purchase Fund. Instead, the department will 
purchase opioid antagonists at a discounted price from MMCAP Infuse for distribution 
through the Opioid Antagonist Bulk Purchase Fund. Members of MMCAP Infuse, 
including the department, may only distribute opioid antagonists to certain non-profit 
and governmental entities. MMCAP Infuse does not permit for profit entities, including 
companies, corporations, partnerships, or sole proprietorships, to receive opioid 
antagonists purchased by through MMCAP Infuse. 
1.2 
Definitions 
(1) 
“Community based organization” means a nonprofit organization that is in good 
standing and registered with the federal internal revenue service and the 
Colorado secretary of state’s office that provides services to an individual at risk 
of experiencing an opioid-related drug overdose event or to the individual’s family 
members, friends, or other persons in a position to assist the individual. 
Federally-recognized Tribes with jurisdiction in the State of Colorado, and 
community organizations operating within Tribal jurisdictions with explicit 
permission from those jurisdictions Tribal Government(s), are also eligible 
community-based organizations. 
(2) 
 “Department” means the Colorado Department of Public Health and 
Environment. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH & ENVIRONMENT 
6 CCR 1015-12 
Prevention Services Division 
 
2 
(3) 
“Eligible entity” means an entity that is eligible to enroll in the Opioid Antagonist 
Bulk Purchase Fund. Distribution of no-cost naloxone to enrolled entities will be 
dependent upon available funds and prioritization of populations at highest risk 
as determined by current evidence and by the prioritization plan as authorized by 
C.R.S. § 25-1.5-115(2). 
(4) 
“First responders” means any entity that could be expected to respond to an 
overdose in the course of their professional duties. 
(5) 
“Institution of Higher Education” means a public or nonpublic institution that 
awards any type of postsecondary certificate, degree, or other credential and is 
located in Colorado. 
(6) 
“Law enforcement agency” means a state or local office with jurisdiction in the 
state of Colorado, and authorized to enforce criminal laws and employ peace 
officers pursuant to C.R.S. § 24-31-305 et seq. or C.R.S. § 16-2.5-101 et seq. A 
federally-recognized Tribe and Tribal police departments in the state are also 
eligible law enforcement agencies. 
(7) 
“Local Unit of Government” means a county, city, town, service authority, school 
district, law enforcement authority, fire protection, metropolitan, local public 
health agency, or other special district, or any other kind of municipal, quasi-
municipal, or public corporation organized pursuant to law. 
(8) 
“Minnesota Multistate Contracting Alliance for Pharmacy” (MMCAP Infuse) 
means the national cooperative group purchasing organization for government 
facilities. This entity ensures the department is able to purchase discounted 
naloxone for distribution to eligible entities. Restrictions on which entities are able 
to access the discounted opioid antagonist are outlined in Minn. Stat. Ann. § 
471.59. 
(9) 
“Opioid antagonist” means naloxone, which rapidly reverses opioid overdoses. 
(10) 
“Opioid Antagonist Bulk Purchase Fund” means the program created in C.R.S. § 
25-1.5-115 with the goal of increasing availability of, and access to, no-cost 
opioid antagonists across the state. 
(11) 
 “Reentry organizations” means community-based organizations that provide 
reentry services to people on parole or incarcerated individuals transitioning 
through community corrections described in section C.R.S. § 17-33-101(7). 
(12) 
“Schools and School districts” means public schools providing elementary or 
secondary education and the local school districts that operate such schools, 
where both are established pursuant to Title 22 of the Colorado Revised Statutes 
and directly governed by a board of education organized under Article 30 of Title 
22.

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH & ENVIRONMENT 
6 CCR 1015-12 
Prevention Services Division 
 
3 
(13) 
 “Standing order” means a prescription order written by a prescriber that is not 
specific to and does not identify a particular patient. 
(14) 
“Syringe Service Program” means an entity that provides, at minimum, the 
following harm reduction services: provide an individual who uses drugs with the 
information and the means to protect themself and their network from exposure 
to infectious diseases and injury including overdose through access to education 
and sterile supplies. 
(15) 
“Tribes with Jurisdiction in Colorado” means sovereign, federally-recognized 
Tribal governments with jurisdiction within the boundaries of Colorado. 
1.3 
Opioid Antagonist Pricing 
Eligible entities are permitted to receive opioid antagonists at no cost. In order to 
provide no cost opioid antagonists to eligible entities, the department may purchase 
opioid antagonists at a discounted price through the Minnesota Multistate Contracting 
Alliance for Pharmacy. The department may also contract with a pharmacy distributor to 
distribute the no cost opioid antagonists to eligible entities. The department may 
reassess any changes to this process in the event of insufficient funding for the Opioid 
Antagonist Bulk Purchase Fund. 
1.4 
Eligibility List 
The following entities may apply to the Department to enroll in the Opioid Antagonist 
Bulk Purchase Fund: 
(1) 
Community-Based Organization 
(2) 
First responders 
(3) 
Institutions of Higher Education 
(4) 
Law enforcement 
(5) 
Local Unit of Government 
(6) 
Reentry organizations 
(7) 
Schools and School districts 
(8) 
Syringe Service Programs 
(9) 
Tribes with Jurisdiction in Colorado

DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH & ENVIRONMENT 
6 CCR 1015-12 
Prevention Services Division 
 
4 
______________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 03/17/2026.
