---
id: "6_CCR_1008-3"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "6 CCR 1008-3"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=5430&fileName=6%20CCR%201008-3&type=pdf"
---

#### 6_CCR_1008-3. 6 CCR 1008-3

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES 
Alcohol and Drug Abuse Division 
ADDICTION COUNSELOR CERTIFICATION AND LICENSURE - Repealed eff. 11/01/2013 
6 CCR 1008-3 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
STATEMENT OF BASIS AND PURPOSE, REGULATORY ANALYSIS AND SPECIFIC STATUTORY 
AUTHORITY 
Revision of the section on Counselor Certification of the Alcohol and Drug Abuse Division standards and 
regulations were final adoption following publication at the 6/7/96 Executive Director rule-making session, 
with an effective date of 8/1/96 (CSPR# 95-11-8-1). Statement of Basis and Purpose and specific 
statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the rule. These materials are 
available for review by the public during normal working hours at the Office of External Affairs, 
Department of Human Services. 
Revisions of the Counselor Certification regulations were final adoption following publication at the 5/7/99 
State Board of Human Services rule-making session, with an effective date of 7/1/99 (CSPR# 99-2-3-1). 
Statement of Basis and Purpose and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by 
reference into the rule. These materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours 
at the Office of External Affairs, Department of Human Services. 
Revisions of the Addiction Counselor Certification rules were final adoption following publication at the 
12/7/2001 State Board of Human Services rule-making session, with an effective date of 2/1/2002 
(CSPR# 01-8-27-1). Statement of Basis and Purpose and specific statutory authority for these revisions 
were incorporated by reference into the rule. These materials are available for review by the public during 
normal working hours at the Office of Performance Improvement, Boards and Commissions Division, 
State Board Administration. 
An entire re-write of the Addiction Counselor Certification and Licensure rules were adopted following 
publication at the 1/9/2004 State Board of Human Services rule-making session, with an effective date of 
3/1/2004 (Rule-making* 03-10-22-1). Statement of Basis and Purpose and specific statutory authority for 
these revisions were incorporated by reference into the rule. These materials are available for review by 
the public during normal working hours at the Office of Performance Improvement, Boards and 
Commissions Division, State Board Administration. 
Revisions to the Addiction Counselor Certification and Licensure rules, Sections 14.100 through 14.900 
were adopted following publication at the 9/7/2007 State Board of Human Services rule-making session, 
with an effective date of 11/1/2007 (Rule-making# 07-3-23-1). Statement of Basis and Purpose and 
specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the rule. These 
materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours at the Office of Performance 
Improvement, Boards and Commissions Division, State Board Administration. 
Revisions to the Addiction Counselor Certification and Licensure rules, Sections 14.100 through 14.920 
were adopted following publication at the 7/9/2010 State Board of Human Services rule-making session, 
with an effective date of 9/1/2010 (Rule-making# 10-3-30-1). Statement of Basis and Purpose and 
specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the rule. These 
materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours at the Colorado Department 
of Human Services, Division of Boards and Commissions, State Board Administration. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
2 
Rules regarding addiction counselor certification, as originally found in 6 CCR 1008-3, are repealed in 
their entirety and rewritten as a consolidation of Behavioral Health rules in 2 CCR 502-1 as adopted 
following publication at the 9/6/2013 State Board of Human Services meeting, with an effective date of 
11/1/2013 (Rule-making# 13-3-4-1). Statement of Basis and Purpose, fiscal impact, and specific statutory 
authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the rule. These materials are available 
for review by the public during normal working hours at the Colorado Department of Human Services, 
Office of Enterprise Partnerships, Division of Boards and Commissions, State Board Administration. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 11/1/2007. 
Entire rule eff. 09/01/2010. 
Entire rule repealed eff. 11/01/2013.
