---
id: "6_CCR_1010-9"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "6 CCR 1010-9"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=410&fileName=6%20CCR%201010-9&type=pdf"
---

#### 6_CCR_1010-9. 6 CCR 1010-9

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
CAMPGROUNDS AND RECREATION AREAS 
6 CCR 1010-9 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
1.0  ADMINISTRATION 
1.1  Authority: Sections 25-1-107(1)(m), 25-1-108(1)(c), and 25-13-104, Colorado Revised Statutes 1973. 
1.2  Adopted: February 19, 1975 
1.3  Effective Date: 
1.4  Purpose: The purpose of these “Standards and Regulations” for campgrounds and recreation areas 
is to provide minimum requirements for the protection of the health and safety of the occupants of 
campgrounds, recreation areas, and the general public. 
1.5  Application: 
a.  The provisions of these “Standards and Regulations” are applicable to the maintenance, 
sanitation, occupancy, and use of campgrounds, and recreation areas as defined. 
b.  These regulations shall not limit the powers and duties of other government agencies to issue 
such orders and adopt such rules and regulations as stringent as or more stringent than 
herein as may be necessary for the local public health and safety. 
2.0  DEFINITIONS 
2.1  Accessory Structure: Any awning, or storage cabinet, established for use by the occupants. 
2.2  Approved: In conformance with applicable government codes and ordinances and with recognized 
National Standards of technical or scientific organizations. 
2.3  Awning: A shade structure, supported by posts or columns or partially supported by a camping 
vehicle and installed, erected, or used on a campsite. 
2.4  Camping equipment: Tents or other types of shelters, intended, designed, or used for temporary 
human occupancy. 
2.5  Camping party: One or more persons assigned to a single campsite. 
2.6  Campsite: Any specific area within organized campgrounds or other recreation areas which is used 
for overnight stays by an individual, a single camping family, group, or other similar entity. 
2.7  Camping vehicle: A self-propelled or towed camping unit, or other vehicle used for temporary human 
occupancy. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-9 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
2 
2.8  Dependent Camping Vehicle: A camping vehicle that has no toilet, lavatory, or bathing facilities and 
is dependent upon a service building for toilet, lavatory and bathing facilities. 
2.9  Independent Camping Vehicle: A camping vehicle that has toilet, lavatory, and bathing facilities 
requiring connection to a sanitary sewer. 
2.10  Campgrounds: Organized campgrounds, including all Federal, State, Municipal, and County owned 
and designated roadside parks and campgrounds; and privately owned campgrounds which are 
made available, either with or without a fee to the public. Campgrounds shall include the following 
categories: 
a.  Primitive: A campground accessible only by walk-in, pack-in, or equestrian campers, where no 
facilities are provided. Improvements, if any, are designed for protection of the site and 
not for convenience or comfort of the campers. Primitive campgrounds shall be exempt 
from all provisions except Sections 3.5, 11.1 c, 17.4 a and b. 
b.  Semi-Primitive: A campground accessible only by walk-in, equestrian, or motorized trail 
vehicles. Rudimentary facilities (privies and/or fireplaces) may be provided. Such facilities 
or improvements are designed for protection of the site and not for the comfort of the 
minimal numbers of campers in the limited use area. Semi-primitive campgrounds shall 
be exempt from all provisions except Sections 3.5, 3.6, 7.1, 7.3, 9.1, 9.4, 9.5, 11.1 a, b, c, 
d, 14.1 b and f, and 17.4 a, b, and c. 
c.  Semi-Developed: A campground of two or more campsites accessible by any type of vehicular 
traffic. Facilities are provided for both protection of site and comfort of users. Roads, trails 
and campsites are defined, and basic sanitary facilities (toilets and privies) are provided. 
Semi-developed campgrounds shall comply with all provisions except Sections 6.12, 8.1 
through 8.10, 12.1, 12.3 b, c, d, (lavatories and showers), e (lavatories), 12.4, 12.5, 13.20 
and 14.1 f. 
d.  Developed: A campground of two or more campsites accessible by any type of vehicular traffic 
where sites are substantially developed. Tables, refuse containers, flush toilets, bathing 
facilities, and water are provided. 
e.  Modern: A campground of two or more campsites accessible by any type of vehicular traffic. 
Campsites for independent camping vehicles have individual water, sewer and electrical 
connections. Campsites accommodating dependent camping vehicles and camping 
equipment not provided with individual utility connections are served by individual or 
centralized water points, by sanitary waste stations and by service buildings with flush 
toilets, lavatories, showers, and laundry facilities. 
2.11  Marina: Any facility or establishment leasing, renting, or providing accommodations for five or more 
boats. 
2.12  Picnic area: Any place established, maintained, operated, or used during the day by picnickers and 
there is no overnight usage or camping. 
2.13  Recreation areas: All public lands and surface waters of the state, other than campgrounds, used 
for picnicking, camping, and other recreational activities. 
2.14  Sanitary facilities: Toilets, urinals, privies, lavatories, showers, utility sinks and drinking fountains, 
and the service buildings containing these units. 
2.15  Sanitary waste station: A facility used for removing and disposing of wastes from self-contained 
camping vehicle sewage holding tanks.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-9 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
3 
2.16  Self-contained camping vehicle: One equipped with toilet and lavatory facilities, a potable water 
storage tank and a sewage holding tank. 
2.17  Service building: A structure housing toilet, lavatory, bath, laundry, service sink, and other such 
sanitary facilities as may be required. 
2.18  Sewage: A combination of liquid wastes which may include chemicals, house wastes, human 
excreta, animal or vegetable matter in suspension or solution, and other solids in suspension or 
solution, and which is discharged from a dwelling, building, or other establishment. 
2.19  Camping stand: That part of an individual campsite used for the placement of the camping vehicle, 
or camping equipment. 
3.0  GENERAL - The following general standards shall apply: 
3.1  All areas shall be well drained and so designed and used as to provide sufficient space for camping 
activities, vehicles, sanitary facilities, and appurtenant equipment. 
3.2  The site shall not be located in an area subject to periodic flooding; nor located in such a manner as 
to permit contamination of a private or public water supply; nor located adjacent to swamps, 
marshes, railroads, stockyards, industrial sites or other such locations which would constitute a 
health or safety hazard. 
3.3  Natural vegetation and ground cover shall be maintained or provided so as to facilitate drainage, 
reduce dust, prevent erosion and reduce fire hazards. 
3.4  All areas shall be maintained to minimize insect, snake, and small animal hazards, and the growth of 
poison ivy, ragweed and other noxious or allergenic weeds. 
3.5  All areas shall be kept free from accumulations of refuse and any health, fire, or safety hazards. 
3.6  Camping parties and users shall be limited to that number for which the physical facilities were 
designed. 
3.7  Camping vehicles equipped with plumbing fixtures shall not be permitted in a campground unless 
connected to the water and sewerage system, or, unless all wastes are contained in a sewage 
holding tank in a self-contained camping vehicle, or the drain outlets from the camping vehicle are 
capped, or the drain outlets are connected to a sealed container located outside the camping 
vehicle. 
3.8  Camping vehicles, not equipped with plumbing fixtures, shall not be permitted in a campground 
unless effective means are provided to collect and contain dishwashing, bathing, or other liquid 
waste material and to properly dispose of these wastes by approved means. (See sections 7.0 
and 8.0). 
4.0  ROADS, PARKING AND WALKS 
4.1  Safe ingress and egress of pedestrian and vehicular traffic shall be provided, and pedestrians shall 
have the right of way. 
4.2  Roads and parking spaces shall be located and constructed for safe movement of vehicular and 
pedestrian traffic and shall be graded to drain and surfaced where necessary to maintain proper 
drainage and to minimize dust. 
4.3  Roads shall be not less than the following widths:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-9 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
4 
Entrance road 
- 
24 feet unless separate exit provided 
One traffic lane 
- 
10 feet 
Two traffic lanes 
- 
20 feet 
Parallel parking lane 
- 
10 feet 
 
4.4  Roads shall be kept clear of obstructions and there shall be at least two means of access to the 
entrance. Dead end streets are not permitted unless a 50 foot turn-around, Y or T is provided. 
Roads and parking areas shall have a minimum of 13 feet overhead clearance and 3 feet side 
clearance from trees, brush, or other obstructions. 
4.5  Parking space shall be provided in semi-developed, developed, and modern campgrounds for 
automobiles, camping or recreational vehicles, boats, trailers, and other appurtenant equipment 
at the rate of at least one space for each campsite. 
4.6  In recreational areas accessible to motor vehicles, all vehicular traffic shall be restricted to roadways 
and parking areas. Parking space shall be provided for the estimated maximum number of users 
at the rate of one space for four persons and shall not exceed 100 car spaces per acre. 
4.7  Walkways, foot bridges or other safe means of passage shall be provided in common use service 
areas. 
5.0  CAMPSITES 
5.1  Campsites shall be clearly marked and identified. 
5.2  No campsite shall be less than 25 feet from a public highway right-of-way. 
5.3  Each campsite shall provide at least 900 square feet of space. 
5.4  The density of campsites shall not be more than 25 campsites per acre excluding roads, buildings, 
and other common use areas. 
5.5  Each campsite, except walk-in campsites, shall front upon a conforming road, and each campsite not 
fronting directly upon a conforming road shall have a clear and unobstructed access of not less 
than 10 feet in width to a conforming road. 
5.6  Each camping stand shall be so designed as to provide for safe and easy placement and removal of 
camping vehicles and camping equipment and shall be constructed to provide adequate support 
and to prevent ruts and low spots. 
5.7  Each campsite shall accommodate only one camping party and the camping vehicle or camping unit 
equipment occupied by persons within the same party. 
5.8  No permanent or semi-permanent structures, such as cabins, lean-tos, sheds or habitable buildings, 
shall be erected on a campsite except by the owner of the property and shall be erected in 
accordance with applicable state or local building construction requirements. 
5.9  Temporary structures such as canvas awnings, screened enclosures, or platforms, which are normal 
camping equipment, may be erected but must be removed when the campsite is vacated.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-9 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
5 
5.10  Camping vehicles, tents, or camping unit equipment shall not be located less than three feet from 
campsite lot lines or property boundary lines, except a front property line abutting upon a highway 
or public thoroughfare with a required 25 foot setback. 
5.11  Camping vehicles, including awnings or other attachments, or camping unit equipment shall not be 
located less than 10 feet from buildings, other camping vehicles, or camping unit equipment on 
adjacent campsites. Accessory structures such as attached awnings and individual storage 
facilities, shall be considered as part of the camping vehicle unit. 
5.12  The density of picnic sites shall not exceed an average of 40 per acre, exclusive of service roads 
and service buildings and each picnic site shall provide a minimum of 600 square feet of space. 
6.0  WATER SUPPLY 
6.1  The water supply system shall be designed, constructed, and maintained in compliance with 
Colorado Department of Health regulations and recommendations to provide a safe, potable and 
adequate supply of water. 
6.2  The water supply shall not be connected to any non-potable water supply, nor be subject to any 
backflow or back siphonage. 
6.3  No surface or stored water supply shall be used unless treated by a minimum of filtration and 
disinfection or under conditions approved by the Colorado Department of Health. When approved 
for use, transported water shall be obtained from an acceptable source, stored and dispensed in 
an approved manner, and shall contain a free chlorine residual of at least 0.2 p.p.m. at all points 
in the water system. 
6.4  Wells equipped with a hand-pump shall be of the enclosed self-priming or sealed interior type pump 
with a closed downward directed spout. The well casing shall be protected by extending the 
casing at least one inch above the face of the pump flange and a concrete apron graded to drain 
waste water away from the well. Open pitcher pumps are not permitted. 
6.5  Where water is distributed under pressure, the water supply system shall deliver water at a minimum 
pressure of at least 20 pounds per square inch and a minimum flow of at least one gallon per 
minute at all outlets. 
6.6  The water supply shall deliver the following minimum volumes: 
a.  100 gallons per day per campsite with individual water connections and where flush toilets are 
used in the camping vehicle or in the service building. 
b.  75 gallons per day per campsite where faucets are provided in common and centralized flush 
toilets in a service building are used. 
c.  50 gallons per day per campsite where faucets are provided in common and privies are used. 
d.  25 gallons per day per picnic site or 5 gallons per person per day in recreational area with 
common faucets and flush toilets. 
e.  3 gallons of water per person per day in a picnic or recreational area with common faucets and 
privies. 
6.7  Water service lines, riser pipes, and valves shall be installed and protected from damage by freezing, 
ground movement, vehicles, or other damage sources. Shut-off valves and drain valves, installed 
for draining the system, and the water service distribution lines shall be so arranged that water

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-9 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
6 
will be available to those campsites being occupied during low temperature winter periods. 
Underground stop and waste valves are not permitted and shall not be installed on any water 
service. 
6.8  Where water connections are provided at each campsite and there are individual sewer connections, 
the riser pipe shall be at least 1/2 inch size and shall extend at least 4 inches vertically above the 
ground elevation. It shall be equipped with a 1/2 inch valve outlet with a threaded male spigot for 
attaching a standard garden hose. 
6.9  Where individual water connections are not provided, common-use water faucets shall be 
conveniently accessible and located not more than 150 feet from any campsite. 
6.10  Drinking fountains, if provided, shall be approved angle jet types with adequate water pressures. 
6.11  Spillage, overflow, drainage, or waste water from faucets and drinking fountains shall be discharged 
to approved drains to prevent impoundment of water, creation of mud holes or other nuisance 
conditions. 
6.12  A water station for filling camping vehicle water storage tanks shall be provided at the rate of one 
station for every 100 campsites. These shall be located not less than 50 feet from a sanitary 
station. The station shall be posted with signs of durable material (not less than two feet) which 
state: POTABLE WATER - DO NOT USE TO FLUSH CAMPING VEHICLE WASTE TANKS. 
Such water stations shall consist of at least a 3/4 inch pipe and valve outlet and shall be 
protected against the hazards of backflow and backsiphonage by an approved vacuum breaker 
located downstream from the shutoff valve. The fill hose shall be suspended so that no part of the 
hose and its appurtenances will come into contact with the ground. A sign shall be posted at the 
entrance indicating the provision of a sanitary station and water station. 
7.0  SEWAGE DISPOSAL 
7.1  Facilities shall be provided and properly maintained for the collection and disposal or treatment and 
disposal of sewage. 
7.2  Where a public sewer system is available, all plumbing fixtures, building sewers, and campground 
sewers shall be connected thereto. If a public sewer system is not available, a private sewage 
collection and disposal facility meeting requirements of the Colorado Water Quality Control 
Commission, the Colorado Department of Health and other applicable local government sewage 
disposal requirements shall be installed and all building sewers and campground sewers 
connected thereto. 
7.3  Solid and liquid wastes shall not be discharged or otherwise disposed of on the surface of the ground 
or into any well, cave, open ditch, stream, lake, or reservoir. 
8.0  SEWAGE COLLECTION 
8.1  Sewage collection lines shall be laid in trenches of sufficient depth to be free of breakage from traffic, 
ground movement, agricultural activity, or other sources of damage and shall be separated from 
the water supply system by a horizontal distance of 10 feet and a vertical elevation of two feet 
below water lines at crossing points unless pressure sewers are used. 
8.2  The sewer lines shall be constructed of approved materials with adequate vents, water-tight joints, 
and sufficient cleanouts. All sewer lines shall have a minimum diameter of six inches except that 
a sewer lateral which serves no more than 25 individual sewer connections for individual camping 
vehicle lots or no more than five toilet connections may be four inches in diameter.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-9 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
7 
8.3  Sewers shall be installed at a grade of at least one-eighth inch per foot to insure a velocity of two feet 
per second when flowing full. Horizontal drainage lines connecting with other horizontal drainage 
lines shall enter through 45 degree “y” branches or other combinations of equivalent sweep. 
8.4  Cleanouts or manholes shall be provided at the upper end of each main sewer line, at intersections 
of two or more sewer lines, changes in grade or alignment of more than 45° and at intervals of 
not more than 400 feet. 
8.5  Individual sewer connections shall meet the following requirements: 
a.  A four inch inside diameter sewer lateral and riser pipe with the surrounding ground graded to 
drain from the rim of the riser pipe. The sewer lateral shall be properly trapped and 
vented if camping vehicles without individually trapped and vented plumbing fixtures are 
accommodated. 
8.6  Dependent camping vehicles with a drain hose less than three inches in diameter shall be connected 
with reducers and screw or clamp-type fittings. 
8.7  Drain outlets from independent camping vehicles shall be capped or connected with a durable, 
readily cleanable, non-absorbent, corrosion-resistant drain hose having an inside diameter of not 
less than three inches. The sewer service connection shall be installed and maintained with a 
grade not less than one-quarter inch per foot. 
8.8  When the campsite is not occupied, the sewer riser pipe shall be adequately covered. 
8.9  A flushing sink or other means of disposal shall be provided for disposal of liquid wastes from 
dependent camping vehicles, unless a sanitary waste station is provided and is conveniently 
located. The flushing sink shall be easily accessible and located at a distance of not more than 
300 feet from any campsite. The sinks shall not be located in a room containing toilet, lavatory or 
bathing facilities, and toilets shall not be used for disposal of such liquid wastes. Common use 
faucets or hydrants and lavatories in service buildings shall not be used for cleaning fish and 
food, and washing dishes, utensils, clothing, or other articles of household use. 
8.10  A sanitary waste station shall be provided for each 100 campsites or part thereof not equipped with 
individual sewer connections. Unless other approved means are used, the sanitary station shall 
be designed and constructed to include the following: 
a.  Easy ingress and egress from a service road for camping vehicles and located not less than 
50 feet from a campsite. 
b.  Connection to the sewer system by a trapped four inch sewer riser pipe and vented not more 
than 10 feet down stream from the trap by a four inch vent adequately supported, and 
extending at least eight feet above the ground surface. 
c.  The sewage inlet surrounded by a curbed concrete apron or trough of at least three feet by 
three feet, sloped to the inlet, and provided with a suitable hinged cover milled to fit tight. 
d.  A means for flushing the immediate area, and camping vehicle holding tank shall be provided 
at each sanitary waste station. It shall consist of a properly supported water riser pipe 
terminating two feet above the ground with a 3/4 inch valved outlet and attached hose. 
The water outlet shall be protected against backsiphonage and backflow by an approved 
vacuum breaker installation located downstream from the shut-off valve. 
e.  A sign, constructed of durable material and not less than two feet square, posted adjacent to 
the water flushing outlet and inscribed with the warning:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-9 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
8 
UNSAFE WATER FACILITY 
8.11  The plumbing shall be installed in accordance with the 1972 edition of the Colorado Technical 
Plumbing Code. 
9.0  REFUSE DISPOSAL 
9.1  The storage, collection, and disposal of refuse shall be performed so as to minimize accidents, fire 
hazards, air pollution, odors, insects, rodents, or other nuisance conditions. 
9.2  Durable, water-tight, easily cleanable refuse containers, sufficient to contain all the refuse shall be 
provided at each service building, and sanitary waste station or at a central storage area readily 
accessible and located not more than 300 feet from any camp or picnic site unless provided at 
the campsite. Refuse containers shall be provided at the rate of eight cubic feet (60 gallons) for 
each five campsites or the equivalent thereof if containers are provided at individual sites. 
9.3  Unless refuse is collected daily, the containers shall be covered with close fitting, fly-tight covers. 
9.4  Refuse shall be collected and removed from the premises as often as necessary, but not less than 
once weekly during the campground occupancy, and disposed of at a lawful disposal site. 
9.5  Where burning is permitted, combustible refuse can be burned in approved fireplaces. 
9.6  Refuse incinerators, where permitted, shall be isolated from vehicular and pedestrian traffic and 
construction shall be reviewed and approved by the State of Colorado Air Pollution Commission. 
10.0  INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL 
10.1  Insects and domestic rodents shall be controlled by elimination of breeding and harborage sources, 
proper sanitary practices, extermination, vermin proofing of buildings, and other approved control 
methods. 
11.0  FIRES, COOKING AND EATING FACILITIES 
11.1  Fires: 
a.  Fires will be permitted only in facilities which have been pro-vided for such purposes or where 
open fires are allowed. 
b.  Fire places, fire pits, charcoal braziers, wood burning stoves or other cooking facilities shall be 
located, constructed, maintained, and used to minimize fire hazard and smoke nuisance 
in the campground and the neighboring properties. 
c.  No fire shall be abandoned, left unattended, or allowed to become a hazard to trees, 
vegetation, camping equipment or adjacent neighboring campsites. 
d.  Fires shall be completely extinguished before the campsite is vacated. 
e.  No fuel shall be used and no material burned which emits dense smoke or objectionable 
odors. 
f.  Flammable liquids shall be stored in metal containers approved by the Underwriters 
Laboratory, Inc.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-9 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
9 
11.2  Tables shall be of durable, non-tip construction and finished with a smooth, readily cleanable, 
weather-resistant material. 
11.3  Food service activities, requiring a license or certificate of inspection in accordance with provisions 
of Sections 12-44-201 thru 213, CRS 1973, and the production, storage and dispensing of ice 
shall be conducted in conformance with the physical and operational requirements of the Rules 
and Regulations Governing the Maintenance of Food Service Establishments in the State of 
Colorado, January 1974. 
12.0  SANITARY FACILITIES 
12.1  Where water under pressure is available, sanitary facilities shall be provided and installed in 
accordance with provisions of the Colorado Technical Plumbing Code. 
12.2  Where water under pressure is not available, equivalent facilities including privies, where not 
prohibited by State or local regulations, shall be provided and installed in accordance with 
requirements of Colorado Department of Health. 
12.3  Required toilet, lavatory, and bathing facilities shall be provided in the following minimum numbers: 
a.  In every campground, there shall be at least one toilet for each sex, except as permitted in 
Section 14.1 f. 
b.  A water supply shall be provided by a hand pump or water spigot. 
c.  Where a campground is designed and operated for exclusive use by independent or self-
contained camping vehicles only, at least one toilet and one lavatory shall be provided for 
each sex at the rate of one for every 100 campsites or fractional part thereof. 
d.  Where a campground accepts or accommodates dependent camping vehicles and camping 
equipment campers, at least one toilet and one lavatory shall be provided for each sex at 
the rate of one each for every 15 campsites or fractional part thereof and one shower 
shall be provided for each sex for every 30 campsites or fractional part thereof. 
Lavatories shall be provided at each building containing toilet facilities. 
e.  Toilets and lavatories shall be provided for each sex at the rate of one for every 30 picnic 
spaces, and one for each 100 persons in a recreational area having concentrated 
numbers of people. 
12.4  Urinals may be substituted for up to one-third of the required number of toilets. Men's toilet rooms 
hereafter constructed shall include urinals where more than two toilets are required. Twenty-four 
inches of trough urinals shall be considered the equivalent of one urinal. 
12.5  Twenty-four inches of a wash sink shall be considered the equivalent of one lavatory. Laundry tubs 
and service sinks will not be acceptable substitutes for lavatories. 
13.0  SERVICE BUILDINGS 
13.1  Service buildings shall be constructed of easily cleanable, non-absorbent materials, maintained in 
good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition. They shall be conveniently located at a 
distance of not less than 10 or more than 400 feet from any dependent camping vehicle lot or 
persons served in a recreational area. 
13.2  Separate rooms containing required plumbing fixtures shall be provided for each sex and clearly 
marked “men” and “women”. If located in the same building, they shall be separated by a solid

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-9 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
10 
sound resistant wall extending from floor to ceiling. The entrances shall be so designed so that 
the plumbing fixtures are not visible from the outside. A landing shall be provided beyond each 
exterior door opening and shall have a width and length not less than the door opening. 
13.3  The floors of service buildings shall have a smooth, impermeable and easily cleaned surface, 
sloped to drain. Floor drains, properly trapped, shall be provided in all shower baths and shower 
rooms to remove waste water and to facilitate cleaning. The walls and ceilings of such buildings 
shall be finished, and the walls shall have a smooth, non-absorbent, easily cleanable surface 
extending to a height of four feet in toilet rooms and six feet in shower rooms. 
13.4  Every service building shall have a minimum ceiling height of 7½ feet. In rooms with sloping 
ceilings, the required ceiling height shall be provided in at least 50 percent of the room and no 
portion of any room having a ceiling height of less than five feet shall be con-sidered as 
contributing to the minimum required areas. 
13.5  Every service building shall have at least one window with direct and unobstructed opening to the 
outside for natural light and ventilation, unless other approved means of light and ventilation to 
the outside air is provided. 
13.6  When necessary for exclusion of flies, mosquitoes and other insects, all exterior openings of service 
buildings shall be protected with fly screening of not less than 16 mesh per square inch, unless 
other approved protective devices are provided. 
13.7  Every service building shall be provided with at least one ceiling-type light fixture, at least one 
separate double convenience outlet adjacent to the lavatories and a light fixture at the outside 
entrance of the service building. All lights shall have wall switches; no pull cords shall be allowed. 
13.8  Illumination levels of at least 30 foot candles shall be maintained at lavatory mirrors and laundry 
room work areas and at least five foot candles for general seeing tasks and at the service building 
entrance area. 
13.9  Where climatic conditions require artificial heating, service buildings shall be provided with approved 
heating facilities which are properly installed, maintained in a safe working condition, and capable 
of maintaining a room temperature of 68° F. 
13.10  Toilets and showers shall be separately installed to be individually accessible and to permit 
simultaneous use. 
13.11  Each toilet shall be individually partitioned with a door to insure privacy. The compartment shall be 
at least 30 inches in width with at least 24 inches of clear space in front of a toilet. The dividing 
partitions shall be at least five feet in height with not less than 6 in. nor more than 12 inches 
separating the partition bottom and the floor. Toilets shall be provided with open front seats. 
13.12  Each shower shall be individually partitioned with a curtain, screen or door to afford privacy. 
13.13  Shower stalls shall be not less than 30 inches by 30 inches in area and shall be constructed to 
prevent water flow into the dressing room space. 
13.14  Shower floors shall be skid resistant or provided with disposable or with non-slip impervious mats. 
Wooden racks (duck boards) over shower floors are prohibited. Where impervious mats are used, 
they must be cleaned, dried, and kept off the shower floor when not in use. 
13.15  Dressing room space, screened from view and equivalent to the size of the shower floor area, shall 
be provided adjacent to bathing facilities and shall be equipped with a bench and clothes hook.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-9 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
11 
13.16  Hot and cold water under pressure shall be supplied to all required plumbing fixtures except that 
cold water only shall be supplied to toilets. Tempered water may be delivered to showers and 
sinks to conserve heated water and heating equipment. The system shall be designed to prevent 
discharge of water in excess of 120° F at shower heads. 
13.17  Hot water heating facilities shall have the capacity to provide a minimum of three gallons of hot 
water (100° F. rise) per hour per each campsite during time of peak demands. 
13.18  Required plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in good working order and in clean and sanitary 
condition. Every service room containing sanitary fixtures shall be provided with a waste basket. 
13.19  Toilets shall be provided with a toilet paper holder or dispenser and a supply of toilet paper and a 
covered receptacle, and lavatory areas shall be provided with clothes hooks, shelves, and trash 
receptacles. 
13.20  Service building construction shall conform to applicable provisions of the 1973 edition of the 
Uniform Building Code, existing local building codes, and ANSI A. 117.1 - 1961 (R. 1971); 
“Specifications for making buildings and facilities accessible to and usable by the physically 
handicapped”. 
14.0  PRIVIES 
14.1  Privies, where permitted, in semi-primitive and semi-developed campgrounds, shall be: 
a.  Located not less than 50 feet nor more than 400 feet from any campsite or building where food 
is prepared or served and shall be so constructed and maintained as to meet the 
requirements of the Colorado Department of Health and applicable local regulations. 
b.  Vault privies shall not be located less than 50 feet from any well or spring, or less than 25 feet 
from any lake, stream or water course. Earth or pit privies shall be rodent proofed and 
shall not be located less than 100 feet from any well or spring or less than 50 feet from 
any lake, stream, or water course. 
c.  Constructed of readily cleanable materials and provided with tight-fitting, self-closing doors 
and impervious floor, risers, and seats. They shall be fly-tight and maintained in good 
repair and in clean condition. 
d.  Each privy building and vault shall be ventilated and risers and seats shall be so designed and 
constructed as to facilitate convenient use and proper sanitation. The privy building shall 
be provided with a window or translucent ceiling or wall paneling to transmit natural or 
yard area lighting. 
e.  Separate privy facilities shall be provided for each sex and the privy seats, for each sex, shall 
be provided in the ratio of not less than one such unit for each 15 campsites. Toilet paper 
shall be provided. 
f.  In isolated campgrounds or recreation areas limited to infrequent or casual use and access is 
by foot, horseback, or trail vehicles, one privy or toilet may be utilized by both sexes. 
15.0  SAFETY 
15.1  All electrical wiring, equipment and appurtenances shall be installed and maintained in accordance 
with provisions of the 1973 Edition of the National Electrical Code.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-9 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
12 
15.2  Liquid petroleum gas, fuel oil, gasoline, and other flammable liquids shall be handled and used in a 
safe manner and shall not be stored inside or beneath any camping vehicle or within five feet of a 
door of a camping vehicle. 
15.3  The grounds, buildings, and related facilities shall be constructed, maintained and used in 
accordance with applicable local and state fire prevention regulations. 
15.4  Play equipment, when provided for children, shall be designed for safety, maintained in good repair 
and located in areas free from hazards. 
15.5  Stables and corrals shall be located on a well drained site and located at least 50 feet from any 
campsite or food preparation area. Horses and large animals shall be kept in a manner to prevent 
hazards to inquisitive children and air or water pollution or nuisance conditions. 
16.0  SWIMMING POOLS 
16.1  Swimming pools and natural swimming areas shall be operated, maintained and used in compliance 
with recommendations and requirements of the Colorado Department of Health's Regulations and 
Standards Governing Swimming Pools and Swimming Areas. 
17.0  OPERATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY 
17.1  Sewage shall be disposed of in facilities provided for the purpose. No camping vehicle equipped 
with plumbing fixtures shall be occupied unless it is connected directly to the sewer system by 
means of a water-tight flexible waste hose at a campsite, the wastes are effectively retained in a 
sewage holding tank, or the camping vehicle drain outlet is capped. 
17.2  Camping vehicles without individually trapped and vented plumbing fixtures shall not be connected 
to sewer branch lines that are not trapped. No sewage or liquid wastes shall be discharged or 
allowed to impound upon the ground surface. 
17.3  Operator 
a.  The operator shall maintain the grounds and common use sanitary facilities, equipment and 
utilities in a clean, safe, and sanitary condition and shall insure that refuse is collected as 
often as necessary to prevent nuisance conditions. 
17.4  Camping Party 
a.  The camping party shall maintain the campsite in a clean, safe, and wholesome condition. 
Refuse shall be deposited in the containers provided for the purpose or removed from the 
site and shall not be deposited on the ground. 
b.  Dogs or other pets shall be kept under control and shall not be permitted to run unattended, or 
be permitted to commit a nuisance. 
c.  Sanitary facilities shall be maintained in a sanitary condition consistent with normal use. 
18.0  MARINAS AND BOAT LAUNCHING FACILITIES: 
For purposes of the regulations pertaining to the referenced section numbers noted below, use of the 
words boats, camping vehicles, boat ramps, and campsites are synonymous. 
18.1 a.  Potable water shall be adequate and safe, and the water supply system shall comply with 
applicable provisions of sections 6.1 through 6.12, except sections 6.6 and 6.9.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-9 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
13 
b.  The distribution system shall be so designed that water is obtainable at a distance of not more 
than 300 feet from any boat at a marina accommodating boats with living quarters. 
 
c.  At water stations, hoses used for filling water tanks shall be equipped with a check valve to 
prevent back flow and shall be installed downstream from the shut-off valve on the riser 
pipe. A device shall be provided to ensure that the end of the hose does not touch the 
marina water or deck when not in use. 
d.  Nonpotable water used for washing boats and docks shall be clearly marked as being unsafe 
for drinking water. 
18.2  Collection and disposal of sewage and liquid waste: 
a.  Means of sewage collection and disposal shall comply with applicable provisions of sections 
7.1 through 7.3, and section 8.9. 
b.  No boat shall be maintained or operated upon the waters of the state which is equipped with a 
toilet unless such toilet is self-contained and is incapable of discharging human wastes 
into the water. 
c.  Marinas accommodating boats equipped with toilets and holding systems for human wastes 
shall provide a sanitary boat pumpout station, or other approved means, to remove, 
collect, and dispose of the sewage to prevent water pollution. 
d.  Fish, fish entrails, debris, or liquid wastes shall not be deposited in waters or upon the ice 
covering streams, lakes, or reservoirs. 
e.  Fish cleaning tables, where provided, shall be equipped with a water outlet and shall have 
impervious, non-absorbent surfaces sloping to centrally located drains. The drains shall 
discharge to the sewerage system through a garbage grinding unit, or to a retention tank 
for disposal by approved means. 
18.3  Refuse 
a.  The storage, collection, and disposal of refuse shall comply with applicable provisions of 
sections 9.1 through 9.4. 
b.  Refuse containers shall be provided, and they shall be located not more than 300 feet from a 
boat ramp or boat dock. 
c.  Refuse, garbage, or litter of any type shall not be deposited on lands, in waters of the state, or 
upon ice-covered waters. 
18.4  Sanitary facilities 
a.  Sanitary facilities shall comply with applicable provisions of sections 13.1 through 13.20, 14.1 
a, b, c, d, e, and 15.1. 
b.  At least one toilet for each sex shall be provided for each boat launching and retrieving ramp 
lane.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-9 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
14 
c.  At least one toilet and one lavatory for each sex shall be provided for every 30 boats or 
fraction thereof at marinas where boats containing sleeping quarters are accommodated. 
The toilets shall be accessible to people at the marina 24 hours a day. 
d.  Toilets shall be located at a distance of not more than 400 feet from boats served, and the 
location shall be plainly indicated by signs. 
18.5  Miscellaneous 
a.  No open fires are permitted on ice, and all fires located on ice must be enclosed in a 
container. Organic or inorganic material shall not be left or abandoned on the ice. 
b.  Fuels, fuel storage, and fuel dispensing equipment shall be properly installed, maintained in a 
safe condition, and used in a manner to prevent pollution from spillage. A shut-off valve 
shall be installed immediately upstream from the hose and nozzle for emergency use. 
Where fuel oils are dispensed, provisions shall be made to contain and remove 
accidental spillages to minimize amounts of pollution. 
19.0  UNLAWFUL ACTS AND PENALTIES 
19.1  Pertinent sections of Colorado Revised Statutes 1973 read as follows: 
“25-1-114.  UNLAWFUL ACTS — PENALTIES 
(1)  It is unlawful for any person, association, or corporation and the officers thereof: 
(a)  To willfully violate, disobey or disregard the provisions of the public health 
laws or the terms of any lawful notice, order, standard, rule or regulation 
issued pursuant thereto; or 
(f)  To willfully fail to remove from private property under his control at his own 
expense, within forty-eight hours after being ordered so by the health 
authorities, any nuisance, source of filth, or cause of sickness within the 
jurisdiction and control of the department, whether such person, 
association, or corporation is the owner, tenant or occupant of such 
private property; except that, if such condition is due to an act of God, it 
shall be removed at public expense;” 
Sections 25-13-105, 106, 111, 112, 114 Colorado Revised Statutes, 1973 provide as follows: 
“25-13-105.  Unlawful acts. (1) Except as otherwise provided in this article, it is unlawful for any 
person: 
(a)  Within the recreation areas of the state to discharge untreated sewage upon the 
surface of the ground or in any waters of the state; 
(b)  To deposit or bury refuse on the public lands or waters within this state, except within 
areas or receptacles designated by the operator for this purpose; 
(c)  To deposit refuse on private or public land in such a way that said refuse may be 
blown, carried, or otherwise transported from its point of deposit; 
(d)  To willfully mar, mutilate, deface, disfigure, or injure beyond normal use any rocks, 
trees, shrubbery, wild flowers, or other features of the natural environment in 
recreation areas of the state;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-9 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
15 
(e)  To willfully cut down, uproot, break, or otherwise destroy any living trees, shrubbery, 
wild flowers, or natural flora in recreation areas of the state; 
 
(f)  To build fires unless in compliance with rules and regulations of the board, to abandon 
or to leave fires unattended, or to store flammable liquids in a container which is 
not of a type approved by the department in an organized campground or other 
recreation area subject to this article; 
(g)  In organized campgrounds or recreation areas to use any cleansing agents, whether 
organic or inorganic in nature, in waters of the state for any purpose, including 
but not limited to bathing, clothes washing, and similar activities, or to dispose of 
any water containing such agents on the surface of the ground within fifty feet of 
any waters of the state. Such water shall be disposed of in facilities provided by 
the operator or in the manner specified by the operator. 
25-13-106.  Sewage disposal (1) In organized campgrounds, all sewage shall be disposed of in 
facilities provided by the campground operator. The operator shall maintain such facilities 
in the manner prescribed by rules and regulations of the board. 
25-13-111.  Enforcement. This article shall be enforced by the department, the division of wildlife, 
the division of parks and outdoor recreation, all city, county, and district departments of 
health and local boards of health, and any peace officer in this state. 
25-13-112.  Citizen's complaint. Any person may initiate an action under the provisions of this 
article by signing a complaint, in accordance with the applicable rules of judicial 
procedure, that he has observed a violation of this article. 
25-13-114.  Penalty for violation. Any person who violates any of the provisions of this article is 
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not 
more than five hundred dollars.” 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History
