---
id: "6_CCR_1009-2"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "6 CCR 1009-2"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12392&fileName=6%20CCR%201009-2&type=pdf"
---

#### 6_CCR_1009-2. 6 CCR 1009-2

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
Disease Control and Public Health Response Division 
THE INFANT IMMUNIZATION PROGRAM AND IMMUNIZATION OF STUDENTS 
ATTENDING SCHOOL 
6 CCR 1009-2 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.]
______________________________________________________________________ 
Adopted by the Board of Health on December 17, 2025, effective February 14, 
2026. 
I.
Definitions
A.
Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) – a federal advisory
committee that develops recommendations on the use of vaccines for the public
to control diseases in the United States.
B.
Alternate Certificate of Immunization – A Certificate of Immunization created by a
school district, college or university, or practitioner’s Electronic Health Record
system that must meet a minimum criteria set by the Department to be
considered equivalent with Colorado’s Official Certificate of Immunization. The
Alternate Certificate of Immunization must be approved by CDPHE and renewed
annually. This includes approved Certificates of Immunization from select states
that the Department recognizes to be consistent with Colorado’s Official
Certificate of Immunization.
C.
American Academy of Family Physicians (AAFP) – A national medical
association for family physicians, residents, and medical students with a
commitment to treating the whole person through the specialty of family
medicine. The AAFP supports recommendations on the use of vaccines to
prevent and control diseases in the United States.
D.
American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) – A national medical organization for
pediatricians committed to the optimal physical, mental, and social health and
well-being for all infants, children, adolescents, and young adults. The AAP
supports evidence-based recommendations on the use of immunizations to
prevent and control diseases in the United States.
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-2 
Disease Control and Public Health Response Division 
 
2 
E.  
American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) – A national 
professional membership organization for obstetricians and gynecologists that is 
dedicated to improving the lives of all people seeking obstetric and gynecologic 
care, their families, and communities. The ACOG supports recommendations on 
the use of vaccines to control diseases in the United States. 
F.  
American College of Physicians (ACP) – A global medical specialty organization 
of internal medicine specialists and subspecialists who apply scientific knowledge 
and clinical expertise to the diagnosis, treatment, and compassionate care of 
adults. The ACP supports recommendations on the use of vaccines to control 
diseases in the United States. 
G.  
Child – any student less than 18 years of age. 
H.  
College or university student – any student who is enrolled in one or more 
classes at a college or university and who is physically present at the institution 
for participation in classes, enrichment, athletics, or other activities.  
1.  
This includes students who are auditing classes, but does not include  
a.  
Nontraditional adult students as defined by the governing board of 
the institution; or  
b.  
Persons taking classes online or by correspondence only. 
I.  
Department (the) – the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment. 
J.  
Dose – a measured quantity of an immunizing agent; quantity and frequency of 
administration described in Section II and Appendix A of these rules and the 
manufacturer of each agent. 
K.  
Emancipated student – any student who has reached 18 years of age; a lawfully 
married child of any age; a child 15 years of age or older who is managing their 
own financial affairs and who is living separate and apart from their parent. 
L.  
Immunization information system – a comprehensive immunization tracking 
system the Department is required to maintain pursuant to Section 25-4-2403(2), 
C.R.S. that enables the collection of epidemiological information from the 
sources delineated in Section 25-4-2403(2), C.R.S. and the investigation and 
control of communicable diseases. Individuals, parents and guardians may 
provide information to the immunization information system; however, pursuant 
to Section 25-4-2403(7), C.R.S., they have the option to exclude their or their 
student’s immunization information from the immunization information system at 
any time.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-2 
Disease Control and Public Health Response Division 
 
3 
M.  
Immunization record – a paper or electronic document from the records of a 
licensed physician, a physician assistant, an advanced practice registered nurse, 
or a public health official that includes the dates and types of immunizations 
administered to a student. 
N.  
Indigent child – any child whose parent cannot afford to have the child 
immunized or, if emancipated, who cannot themself afford immunization, and 
who has not been exempted. 
O.   
Infant – any child up to twenty-four months of age or any child eligible for 
vaccination and enrolled under the Colorado Medical Assistance Act, Articles 4, 
5, and 6 of Title 25.5, C.R.S. 
P.  
In-process student – for non-college and university students as defined in 
Section I (BB), a student may be considered in-process in one of the following 
two situations: 
 
1.  
Within thirty days of receiving direct personal notification that the student’s 
Official Certificate of Immunization is not up-to-date according to the 
requirements of the State Board of Health, the parent, guardian or 
emancipated student submits documentation that the next required 
immunization(s) have been given and, if needed, a signed written plan for 
obtaining the remaining required immunizations administered according to 
the medically recommended minimum intervals consistent with the 
immunization schedule as defined in Section II and Appendix A of these 
rules. If the next dose is not medically indicated within thirty days, then the 
medically approved minimum intervals would apply. If the parent, 
guardian, or emancipated student does not provide documentation to 
demonstrate compliance or or does not fulfill the in-process plan, the 
school shall suspend or expel the student for noncompliance per Section 
25-4-907, C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-2 
Disease Control and Public Health Response Division 
 
4 
2.  
Within thirty days of receiving direct personal notification that the student’s 
Certificate of Medical or Nonmedical Exemption has expired, is not signed, 
is on the wrong form, or is missing information, the parent, guardian or 
emancipated student submits: (1) an immunization record documenting 
that the student is up-to-date, (2) a signed written plan for obtaining the 
remaining required immunizations, administered according to the 
medically recommended minimum intervals consistent with the 
immunization schedule as defined in Section II and Appendix A of these 
rules, or (3) a new and complete Certificate of Medical or Nonmedical 
Exemption. If the parent, guardian, or emancipated student does not 
provide documentation to demonstrate compliance or or does not fulfill the 
in-process plan, the school shall suspend or expel the student for 
noncompliance per Section 25-4-907, C.R.S. 
Q.  
In-process college or university student – for college or university students, as 
defined in Section I (H), a student may be considered in-process in one of the 
following two situations: 
1.  
Within thirty days of receiving direct personal notification that the student’s 
Official Certificate of Immunization is not up-to-date according to the 
requirements of the State Board of Health, the parent, guardian or 
emancipated student submits documentation that the next required 
immunization(s) have been given and, if needed, a signed written plan for 
obtaining the remaining required immunizations administered according to 
the medically recommended minimum intervals consistent with the 
immunization schedule as defined in Section II and Appendix A of these 
rules. If the next dose is not medically indicated within thirty days, then the 
medically approved minimum intervals would apply. If the student does not 
provide documentation to demonstrate compliance, the student will not be 
allowed to enroll, remain enrolled, or audit for the current term or session.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-2 
Disease Control and Public Health Response Division 
 
5 
2.  
Within thirty days of receiving direct personal notification that the student’s 
Certificate of Medical or Nonmedical Exemption has expired, is not signed, 
is on the wrong form, or is missing information, the parent, guardian or 
emancipated student submits: (1) an immunization record documenting 
that the student is up-to-date, (2) a signed written plan for obtaining the 
remaining required immunizations, administered according to the 
medically recommended minimum intervals consistent with the 
immunization schedule as defined in Section II and Appendix A of these 
rules, or (3) a new and complete Certificate of Medical or Nonmedical 
Exemption. If the student does not provide documentation to demonstrate 
compliance, the student will not be allowed to enroll, remain enrolled, or 
audit for the current term or session. 
R.  
McKinney-Vento District Liaison – required in every school district by 42 USC 
11432(g)(1)(J)(ii); a person designated to be the primary point of contact to 
ensure students experiencing homelessness are identified and aware of their 
rights under the federal law. 
S.  
Medical exemption – an immunization exemption available when the physical 
condition of the student is such that one or more specified immunizations would 
endanger their life or health or are medically contraindicated due to other medical 
conditions. 
T.  
Nonmedical exemption – an immunization exemption based upon a religious 
belief whose teachings are opposed to immunizations or a personal belief that is 
opposed to immunizations. 
U.  
Official Certificate of Immunization – one of the following forms of documentation 
that includes the dates and types of immunizations administered to a student:  
1.  
Information from an immunization record transferred by a licensed 
physician, a physician assistant, an advanced practice registered nurse, a 
public health official, or a school official onto a paper or electronic version 
of the Official Certificate of Immunization form created and maintained by 
the Department of Public Health and Environment; or  
2.  
An electronic file or a hard copy of an electronic file provided to the school 
directly from the immunization information system, established pursuant to 
Section 25-4-2403 C.R.S. 
V.  
Online Immunization Education Module – also known as the online education 
module, the module, or the online education module – is administered by the 
Department and offered to the public as one way for the parent, guardian, or 
emancipated student to obtain a Certificate of Nonmedical Exemption.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-2 
Disease Control and Public Health Response Division 
 
6 
W.  
Parent or guardian – the person or persons with parental or decision-making 
responsibilities for a child. 
X  
Practitioner – a duly licensed physician, advanced practice nurse, physician 
assistant (sometimes known as a physician associate), or other person who is 
permitted and otherwise qualified to administer vaccines under Colorado law. 
Y  
School – all child care facilities licensed by the Colorado Department of Early 
Childhood or the Colorado Department of Human Services including: child care 
centers; school-age child care centers; preschools; day camps; resident camps; 
day treatment centers; family child care homes; foster care homes; and Head 
Start programs; unlicensed Head Start programs; public, private, or parochial 
kindergarten; elementary or secondary schools through grade twelve; or a 
college or university. Schools include educational programs where courses are 
offered online (an online school or program as defined in Section 22-30.7-102 
C.R.S.) but where enrolled students are physically present at the institution for 
participation in enrichment, athletics, or other activities. 
1. 
Schools do not include a public services short-term child care facility as 
defined in Section 26.5-5-303(22), C.R.S., a guest child care facility as 
defined in Section 26.5-5-303(16), C.R.S., a ski school as defined in 
Section 26.5-5-307(6), C.R.S., a homeless youth shelter as defined in 
Section 26-6-903(13), C.R.S., or college or university classes which are: 
Offered off-campus; offered at colleges or universities which do not have 
residence hall facilities within their systems; or a school whose normal 
course of student instruction is delivered online only. 
Z.  
School health authority – an individual working for or on behalf of the child care 
facility or school who is knowledgeable about child care/school immunizations. 
AA.  
School official – the school’s chief executive officer or any person designated by 
them as their representative. 
BB.  
Student – any person enrolled in a Colorado school or enrolled in an online-only 
school but registered in-person with any school as defined in Section I (Y) for 
enrichment, athletics, or other activities, except: 
1.  
A child who attends educational programs where courses are offered 
online (an online school or program as defined in 1 CCR 301-71) and the 
child is not physically present at the institution for participation in 
enrichment, athletics, or other activities;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-2 
Disease Control and Public Health Response Division 
 
7 
2.  
A child who enrolls and attends a licensed child care center, as defined in 
Section 26.5-5-303(3), C.R.S., which is located at a ski area, for up to 
fifteen days or less in a fifteen-consecutive-day period, no more than twice 
in a calendar year, with each fifteen-consecutive-day period separated by 
at least sixty days; and 
3. 
College and university students as defined in Section I (H). 
CC.  Student identified as eligible for the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act – 
as described in 42 U.S.C. 11434a(2); a student attending public school (preK-
12th grade) who lacks a fixed, regular, and adequate nighttime residence, 
including those who are living in transitional housing, living with others due to 
economic hardship, or are living in emergency or transitional shelters. This also 
includes students with a primary nighttime residence that is a public or private 
place not designed for or ordinarily used as a regular sleeping accommodation 
for people.  
1.  
Unaccompanied students experiencing homelessness as described in 42 
U.S.C. 11434a(6) are also eligible for if two conditions are met:  
a.  
The student’s living arrangement meets the McKinney-Vento Act’s 
definition of homeless; and, 
b.  
The student is not in the physical custody of a parent or guardian. 
DD.  Titer – a laboratory test that measures the presence and amount of antibodies in 
blood. An antibody titer can be used to show that a person has a measurable 
level of immunity to a specific disease. 
EE.  
Up-to-date – all school-required vaccines have been administered to the student 
in accordance with Section II and Appendix A of these rules. 
II. 
Incorporation by reference 
A.  
Throughout these regulations, standards and requirements of an outside 
organization have been adopted and incorporated by reference. The material 
incorporated by reference cited herein includes only those versions that were in 
effect on August 19, 2025, and no later amendments to the incorporated 
materials. These regulations incorporate by reference: 
1.  
2025 Recommended Child and Adolescent Immunization Schedule for 
Ages 18 Years or Younger as approved by the American Academy of 
Pediatrics, as published on November 21, 2025. 
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1b45XXj_-
V5RaJEbBVs5MxTT3_1ATbTfx/view?usp=sharing

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-2 
Disease Control and Public Health Response Division 
 
8 
2.  
To align with the list of school-required vaccines in Colorado in Section 
III.A of these rules, these rules do not incorporate by reference 
recommendations for the following vaccines or immunizing agents: 
a. 
COVID-19 vaccine 
b.  
Dengue vaccine 
c.  
Hepatitis A vaccine 
d.  
Human papillomavirus vaccine 
e.  
Influenza vaccine 
f.  
Meningococcal B vaccine 
g.  
Mpox vaccine 
h.  
Pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine 
i.  
Respiratory syncytial virus monoclonal antibody 
j.  
Respiratory syncytial virus vaccine 
k.  
Rotavirus vaccine 
3. 
Meningococcal vaccine (MenACWY) is not required for school entry by 
these rules. However, the information requirements stipulated in Section 
IX(A)2 of these rules are guided by these referred materials. 
B. 
The Division of Disease Control and Public Health Response shall maintain 
certified copies of the complete text of the incorporated materials, which shall be 
available for public inspection during regular business hours, and shall provide 
certified copies of the materials at cost upon request.  
For information regarding how the incorporated materials may be obtained or 
examined, the Division can be contacted electronically at 
cdphe.dcdimmunization@state.co.us or by mail at 
Division Director 
Division of Disease Control and Public Health Response 
Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment  
4300 Cherry Creek Drive South  
Denver, Colorado 80246-1530

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-2 
Disease Control and Public Health Response Division 
 
9 
C.  
The incorporated materials are available at: 
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1b45XXj_-
V5RaJEbBVs5MxTT3_1ATbTfx/view?usp=sharing 
D.  
The incorporated materials are available from the American Academy of 
Pediatrics, which can be contacted electronically at 
https://www.aap.org/en/pages/contact-us/contact-national-headquarters/ or by 
mail at  
345 Park Boulevard 
Itasca, Illinois 60143 
III. 
Minimum immunization requirements 
A. 
To attend school, a student must have an up-to-date Official Certificate of 
Immunization with the dates and types of immunizations administered. Meeting 
the initial immunization requirements does not exempt a student from meeting 
subsequent requirements. This Official Certificate of Immunization must 
demonstrate immunization against the following diseases: 
1. 
Hepatitis B 
2. 
Pertussis 
3. 
Tetanus 
4. 
Diphtheria 
5. 
Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) 
6. 
Pneumococcal disease 
7. 
Polio 
8. 
Measles 
9. 
Mumps 
10. 
Rubella 
11. 
Varicella 
B.  
Except as required in paragraphs (C) and (D) of this Section III, when healthcare 
providers administer the immunizations identified in paragraph (A) of this Section 
III, the immunizations will be administered according to the schedule 
incorporated by reference in Section II and the schedule in Appendix A of these 
rules.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-2 
Disease Control and Public Health Response Division 
 
10 
C.  
Students between the ages of 4 through 6 years are required to receive their final 
doses of diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis (DTaP), inactivated polio vaccine 
(IPV), measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR), and varicella vaccines prior to 
kindergarten entry. 
D.  
Students are required to receive a dose of tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis 
vaccine (Tdap) prior to 7th grade entry. One dose of Tdap is required for 7th 
through 12th grades. 
E.  
Laboratory confirmation of positive titers is an acceptable alternative to the 
following vaccine components when submitted to the student’s school: 
1.  
For DTaP and Tdap, both the diphtheria and tetanus titers must be 
positive. A titer is never acceptable to demonstrate immunity to pertussis. 
The Department will accept positive titers for tetanus and diphtheria. For 
pertussis, the Department will require: (1) vaccination with an age-
appropriate pertussis-containing vaccine series in alignment with the 
schedule incorporated in Section II of these rules and Appendix A; or (2) a 
Certificate of Medical or Nonmedical Exemption for the pertussis 
component. 
2.  
For MMR, titers for measles, mumps, and rubella must all be positive. If 
any single titer is negative, the Department will require: (1) vaccination 
with an age-appropriate MMR vaccine series in alignment with the 
schedule in Section II and Appendix A of these rules, or (2) a Certificate of 
Medical or Nonmedical Exemption for the component(s) for which the titer 
is negative. 
3. 
For varicella, the titer for varicella must be positive. If the titer is negative, 
the Department will require: (1) vaccination with an age-appropriate 
varicella vaccine series in alignment with the schedule incorporated by 
reference in Section II and Appendix A of these rules, or (2) a Certificate 
of Medical or Nonmedical Exemption for the varicella vaccine. 
4. 
A titer is not an acceptable alternative for Haemophilus influenzae type b, 
hepatitis B, pneumococcal, or polio vaccines, or the pertussis component 
of Tdap and DTaP vaccines.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-2 
Disease Control and Public Health Response Division 
 
11 
IV. 
Exemptions from immunization 
A parent or guardian shall have their student immunized, unless the student is 
exempted. An emancipated student shall have themselves immunized, unless the 
student is exempted. A student is exempted from receiving the required immunizations 
when the requirements of either Paragraph A or B of this Section IV are met. 
A.  
Medical exemption – A student obtains a medical exemption from one or more 
immunization requirements through submission of the Department’s Certificate of 
Medical Exemption completed and signed by an advanced practice nurse, a 
physician assistant, or a physician licensed to practice medicine or osteopathic 
medicine in any state or territory of the United States indicating that the physical 
condition of the student is such that one or more immunizations would endanger 
their life or health or is medically contraindicated due to other medical conditions. 
This form is to be submitted to the school once for permanent conditions. Medical 
exemptions for temporary conditions will expire after the “temporary until” date 
has elapsed, which is determined by the authorized immunizing provider who 
signed the form. This expiration date shall be monitored by the school to 
determine when the student is eligible to receive the required immunization(s) 
and must be maintained on file at each new school the student attends. 
B.  
Nonmedical exemption – A student obtains a nonmedical exemption from one or 
more immunization requirements through submission of the Department’s 
Certificate of Nonmedical Exemption signed by one parent, guardian or an 
emancipated student. 
1.  
A completed Certificate of Nonmedical Exemption must also include 
either: 
a.  
The signature of a person who is authorized pursuant to Title 12 to 
administer immunizations within their scope of practice; or 
b.  
Confirmation of completion of the Department’s Online 
Immunization Education Module described in Section XII of this 
rule. 
2.  
Frequency of submission by the parent, guardian, or emancipated student:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-2 
Disease Control and Public Health Response Division 
 
12 
a.  
Prior to kindergarten entry, the Department’s Certificate of 
Nonmedical Exemption must be submitted each time an 
immunization is due according to the schedule incorporated by 
reference in Section II. Exemptions will expire at the time the next 
immunizations are due according to the schedule incorporated by 
reference in Section II of these rules or when the student is enrolled 
to attend kindergarten. 
b.  
From kindergarten through twelfth grade, the Department’s 
Certificate of Nonmedical Exemption must be submitted once per 
school year. Exemptions will expire annually on June 30th, the last 
official day of the school year. As long as the student is in 
compliance for the current school year, the Certificate of 
Nonmedical Exemption submitted as part of the school's 
designated early registration process is valid for the upcoming 
school year and will expire on June 30th of the following year. 
c.  
For school-aged children attending children's resident camps or day 
camps, a Certificate of Nonmedical Exemption must be submitted 
by the student’s parent or guardian upon entry, or, if the student is 
emancipated, themselves. A Certificate of Nonmedical Exemption 
is an annual requirement in this age group and is valid if it is dated 
within the past 12 months. 
C.  
In the event of a disease outbreak for which immunization is required, exempted 
persons may be subject to exclusion from school and quarantine. 
D.  
The following rules pertain to immunization records:  
1.  
Immunization records of each student participating in a nonpublic home-
based education program pursuant to Section 22-33-104.5, C.R.S. shall 
be maintained on a permanent basis by the parent in charge and in control 
of said program and are required to be submitted: 
a.  
When a school district requires compliance with Section 25-4-902, 
C.R.S. pursuant to Section 22-33-104.5 (3)(G), C.R.S.; and 
b.  
When requested by a school district, institute charter school, or 
private school which the student attends for a portion of the school 
day.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-2 
Disease Control and Public Health Response Division 
 
13 
2.  
A school district that is exercising its authority pursuant to Section 22-33-
104.5(3)(G), C.R.S. or an independent school organized pursuant to 
Section 22-33-104 (2)(B), C.R.S. where students are enrolled but do not 
attend is entitled to only: 
a.  
A student's immunization records, as provided by the parent or 
guardian; or 
b.  
A statement signed by a parent or guardian that the student is 
exempt from immunization. 
E.  
All information distributed to parent(s) and guardians by school districts regarding 
immunizations shall inform them of their rights in Section IV (A-D). 
V. 
Examination and audit of official school immunization records 
The Department’s representative has the right to audit and verify records to determine 
compliance with the law. Discrepancies found through audits shall be corrected by 
school officials, and any student not in full compliance shall be suspended or expelled 
from school according to the following rules: 
A.  
If the parent(s), guardian, or emancipated student was informed of the 
deficiencies in the student’s official school immunization records pursuant to 
Section I (P) of these rules, the school shall suspend or expel the student for 
noncompliance per Section 25-4-907, C.R.S.  
B.  
If the parent(s), guardian or emancipated student was not informed by a direct 
personal notification of the immunizations required and alternatives for 
compliance with the law, the school shall notify the parent(s), guardian or 
emancipated student within seven calendar days of the finding.  
1.  
After notification, the parent, guardian, or emancipated student shall: 
provide proof of immunization or exemption in accordance with Section IV 
of these rules within 30 days; or provide an in-process plan in accordance 
with Section I (P) of these rules. If the parent, guardian, or emancipated 
student does not comply, the school shall suspend or expel the student 
pursuant to Section 25-4-907, C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-2 
Disease Control and Public Health Response Division 
 
14 
VI. 
Denial of attendance 
A.  
A student who is not in-process, not appropriately vaccinated for their age, or not 
exempt shall be denied attendance in accordance with the law. 
1.  
No indigent child shall be excluded, suspended, or expelled from school 
unless the immunizations have been available and readily accessible to 
the indigent child at public expense.  
2.  
No students identified as eligible for the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
Assistance Act may be denied enrollment due to a lack of immunization 
records. These students may participate in a documented interview with 
the McKinney-Vento District Liaison that may extend the in-process period 
beyond 30 days. 
B. 
If the student is attending a school that is not subject to the School Attendance 
Law, Section 22-33-101 et seq., C.R.S., school officials shall take appropriate 
action to deny attendance to the student in accordance with that school’s 
procedures or contract with the student.  
VII. 
Official school immunization records 
A.  
Official school immunization records shall include: 
1.  
The Department’s Official Certificate of Immunization or an Alternate 
Certificate of Immunization approved by the Department 
2.  
The Department’s Certificate of Medical Exemption, and 
3. 
The Department’s Certificate of Nonmedical Exemption. 
B.  
Any immunization record (original or copy) as defined by this rule may be 
accepted by a school official as proof of immunization. If not already documented 
per Subsection (A)(1) of this Section the information must be transferred to an 
Official Certificate of Immunization or Alternate Certificate of Immunization.  
1.  
In lieu of an Official Certificate of Immunization, a licensed children's 
resident camp may maintain on file an out-of-state immunization record for 
an out-of-state camper attending the resident camp.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-2 
Disease Control and Public Health Response Division 
 
15 
C.  
Except as provided in Subsection (B)(1) of this Section, schools shall have on file 
an official school immunization record for every student enrolled. The official 
school immunization record will be kept apart from other school records. When a 
student withdraws, transfers, is promoted to a new school, or otherwise leaves a 
school, the school official shall return the official school immunization record to 
the parent(s), guardian, or emancipated student upon request, or transfer it with 
the student’s school records to the new school. Upon a college or university 
student’s request, the official school immunization record shall be forwarded by 
the school as specified by the parent, guardian, or emancipated student. 
D.  
Schools must verify minimum immunization requirements are met on all 
submitted immunization records to ensure students are and remain in 
compliance with this rule. 
VIII. 
Reporting of statistical information 
A.  
Annually, by January 15 of each year, any child care center, preschool or Head 
Start program that is licensed by the Colorado Department of Early Childhood or 
the Colorado Department of Human Services to provide care to ten or more 
children and are not exempt from reporting pursuant to Section VIII (B); 
unlicensed Head Start programs; and public, private, or parochial schools with 
kindergarten, elementary or secondary schools through grade twelve, shall send 
aggregate immunization and exemption data, by antigen, to the Department. 
Required data shall include: 
1.  
Total number of students and total number of kindergarten students 
enrolled in the school; 
2.  
Total number of students and total number of kindergarten students who 
are up-to-date with immunizations, as required in Section III; 
3.  
Total number of students and total number of kindergarten students who 
have a medical exemption for all immunizations, as required in Section III; 
4.  
Total number of students and total number of kindergarten students who 
have a medical exemption for one or more but not all immunizations, as 
required in Section III; 
5.  
Total number of students and total number of kindergarten students who 
have a nonmedical exemption for all immunizations, as required in Section 
III;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-2 
Disease Control and Public Health Response Division 
 
16 
6.  
Total number of students and total number of kindergarten students who 
have a nonmedical exemption for one or more but not all immunizations, 
as required in Section III; 
7.  
Total number of in-process students and total number of in-process 
kindergarten students; 
8.  
Total number of students and total number of kindergarten students not 
up-to-date for immunizations, as required in Section III, with no exemption 
on file, and not in-process; and 
9.  
Total number of students and total number of kindergarten students with 
no immunization records. 
B.  
Schools not required to send aggregate immunization and exemption data to the 
Department include: K-12th grade schools whose normal course of schooling is 
online only, school-age child care centers, family child care homes, drop-in 
centers, day treatment centers, foster care homes, day camps, and resident 
camps. 
C.  
All schools required to report immunization data to the Department must make 
the immunization and exemption rates of their enrolled student population 
publicly available upon request. 
IX. 
Requirements for college and university students, colleges, and 
universities 
The provisions below apply only to colleges or universities, or college or university 
students. 
A.  
Minimum immunization requirements 
1.  
Two valid doses of the MMR vaccine are required for all college or 
university students, unless they were born before 1957. 
a.  
Laboratory confirmation of positive titers are an acceptable 
alternative to the measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine when 
submitted to the student’s school. Titers for measles, mumps, and 
rubella must all be positive. If any single titer is negative, the 
Department will require: (1) vaccination with an age-appropriate 
MMR vaccine series or (2) a Certificate of Medical or Nonmedical 
Exemption for the component(s) for which the titer is negative.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-2 
Disease Control and Public Health Response Division 
 
17 
b.  
To determine valid doses or age-appropriate MMR vaccine series 
for students who had doses of MMR or MMRV administered before 
the age of 19, refer to the schedule incorporated by reference in 
Section II of these rules. 
c.  
Students who are 19 years of age and older are required to have 
two doses of MMR vaccine, spaced at least 28 days apart. 
2.  
Pursuant to Section 25-4-901, C.R.S. et. seq., and Section 23-5-128 (3), 
C.R.S., each college and university shall provide information concerning 
meningococcal disease and meningococcal vaccine to each new college 
or university student residing in student housing, or if the college or 
university student is under 18 years, to the college or university student’s 
parent or guardian.  
a.  
The meningococcal vaccination status of new college and 
university students residing in student housing shall be assessed 
from either (1) the move-in date to student housing or (2) the first 
day of classes, as determined by college or university policy. In 
order to be valid, the MenACWY vaccine must be administered 
both (1) within the last five years and (2) on or after the student’s 
sixteenth birthday. 
b.  
If the college or university student does not obtain the MenACWY 
vaccine, the college and university student must review the 
information concerning meningococcal disease and meningococcal 
vaccine.  
i.  
A signature must be obtained from the college or university 
student or, if the student is not emancipated, the student’s 
parent or guardian, indicating that the information was 
reviewed and the student or their parent or guardian has 
declined the vaccine. 
B.  
Exemptions from immunization 
A college or university student is exempted from receiving required 
immunizations in the following manner:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-2 
Disease Control and Public Health Response Division 
 
18 
1.  
Medical exemption – A student obtains a medical exemption through the 
submission of the Department’s Certificate of Medical Exemption 
completed and signed by an advanced practice nurse, a physician 
assistant, or physician licensed to practice medicine or osteopathic 
medicine in any state or territory of the United States indicating that the 
physical condition of the college or university student is such that one or 
more immunizations would endanger their life or health or are medically 
contraindicated due to other medical conditions. This form is to be 
submitted once to the college or university at enrollment for permanent 
conditions. Medical exemptions for temporary conditions will expire after 
the “temporary until” date has elapsed, which is determined by the 
authorized immunizing provider who signed the form. This expiration date 
shall be monitored by the school to determine when the student is eligible 
to receive the required immunization(s) and must be maintained on file at 
each new school the student attends. 
2.  
Nonmedical exemption – A student obtains a nonmedical exemption 
through the submission of the Department’s Certificate of Nonmedical 
Exemption signed by the college or university student or if not 
emancipated, the college or university student’s parent or guardian. The 
Department’s Certificate of Nonmedical Exemption must be submitted at 
enrollment. A new Certificate of Nonmedical Exemption is required 
anytime a student enrolls in a new college or university. A Certificate of 
Nonmedical Exemption must also include either: 
a.  
The signature of a person who is authorized pursuant to Title 12 of 
the Colorado Revised Statutes to administer immunizations within 
their scope of practice, or 
b.  
Confirmation of completion of the Department’s Online 
Immunization Education Module described in Section XII of this 
rule. 
c.  
In the event of a disease outbreak for which immunization is 
required, exempted persons may be subject to exclusion from 
school and quarantine. 
C.  
Examination and audit of official school immunization records

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-2 
Disease Control and Public Health Response Division 
 
19 
1.  
The Department’s representative has the right to audit and verify records 
to determine compliance with the law. Discrepancies found through audits 
shall be corrected by school officials, and any college or university student 
not in full compliance shall be denied attendance from school according to 
the rules in this Section, Subsection (D). 
D.  
Denial of attendance 
1.  
A school official shall deny attendance to a college or university student 
who is not in-process, not appropriately vaccinated for their age, or not 
exempt in accordance with Section 25-4-903, C.R.S. 
2.  
No college or university student shall be denied attendance for failure to 
comply unless there has been a direct personal notification of 
noncompliance by the school. Notification must be made by the school 
within seven days of the finding of noncompliance to the college or 
university student or if not emancipated, the student’s parent or guardian.  
E.  
Official school immunization records 
1.  
Official school immunization records shall include: 
a.  
The Department’s Official Certificate of Immunization or an 
Alternate Certificate of Immunization approved by the Department  
b.  
The Department’s Certificate of Medical Exemption, and 
c.  
The Department’s Certificate of Nonmedical Exemption. 
2.  
Schools shall have on file an official school immunization record for every 
college or university student enrolled. 
F.  
Reporting of statistical information – Annually, by January 15 of each year, any 
college or university that constitutes a school as defined by Section I (Y) of these 
rules shall send aggregate immunization and exemption data, by antigen, to the 
Department. 
Required data shall include: 
1.  
Total number of college or university students enrolled in the school; 
2.  
Total number of college or university students who are up-to-date with 
immunizations, as required in this Section (IX); 
3.  
Total number of college or university students who have a medical 
exemption for the MMR vaccine;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-2 
Disease Control and Public Health Response Division 
 
20 
4.  
Total number of college or university students who have a nonmedical 
exemption for the MMR vaccine; 
5.  
Total number of in-process college or university students; 
6.  
Total number of college or university students who have a signed waiver 
for the Meningococcal vaccine; 
7.  
Total number of college or university students not up-to-date for the MMR 
vaccine, with no exemption on file, no meningococcal vaccine waiver on 
file, and not in-process; and 
8.  
Total number of college or university students with no immunization 
records. 
G.  
All colleges and universities required to report immunization data to the 
Department must make the immunization and exemption rates of their enrolled 
student population publicly available upon request. 
X. 
Contract requirements for providers, hospitals, and health care clinics to 
be an agent of the Department for the purposes of the immunization 
program 
A.  
To be an agent of the Department for the purposes of administering 
immunizations to infants, children, and students, a provider, hospital, or health 
care clinic must provide each patient receiving a vaccine, or the parent or 
guardian, if the patient is an unemancipated minor, a copy of the currently 
approved Vaccine Information Statement, as required by federal law. 
B.  
The Department shall make such requirements as are necessary to assure the 
confidentiality and security of information in the immunization information system 
operated pursuant to Section 25-4-2403(3), C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-2 
Disease Control and Public Health Response Division 
 
21 
XI. 
Fee for the administration, reporting, and tracking of vaccine 
This Section applies to vaccines and immunizing agents provided by the Department 
and available to Colorado practitioners. 
A.  
Practitioners may charge up to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services 
maximum regional fee for the administration of a vaccine. These fees apply to all 
vaccines provided by the Department. 
B.  
A vaccine recipient may not be denied a vaccine provided by the Department 
because of inability to pay the administration fee. 
C.  
If a practitioner’s vaccine administration costs are less than the Centers for 
Medicare and Medicaid Services maximum regional fee for the administration of 
vaccine, then they may only charge up to that lesser amount. 
XII. 
Online Immunization Education Module 
A.  
Per Section 25-4-903 (2.5 and 2.7), C.R.S., the Department shall provide 
immunization information to the public via an Online Immunization Education 
Module. The immunization information and contents of this module shall include, 
but are not limited to: 
1.  
Medical and scientific data that is evidence-based and peer reviewed by 
credible scientific and public health organizations concerning both the 
benefits and risks of immunizations; 
2.  
A fair presentation of both the benefits and risks of immunizations; and 
3.  
Data concerning the risk of immunization injury. 
B.  
The module shall be interactive such that the viewer of the module must engage 
with the content successfully to receive a certificate of completion. 
C.  
Upon successful completion of the module, a Certificate of Nonmedical 
Exemption that includes confirmation of completion of the Department’s Online 
Immunization Education Module will be electronically generated for downloading 
and printing. 
D.  
The Online Immunization Education Module shall not require a parent or 
guardian or emancipated student, to sign or indicate agreement with any 
language regarding immunizations that may be contrary to a religious belief or 
personal belief that is opposed to immunizations in order to complete the Online 
Immunization Education Module.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-2 
Disease Control and Public Health Response Division 
 
22 
XIII. 
Vaccinated children standard 
A.  
Per Section 25-4-911 (1), C.R.S., the goal for every school is for 95% of the 
enrolled student population to be vaccinated with each vaccine required for 
school entry in Section III in order to reduce the spread of vaccine-preventable 
disease and protect the health of all people in the school community, including 
students who cannot be immunized for medical reasons. 
XIV. 
Annual parent letter 
A.  
Per Section 25-4-902 (4), C.R.S., annually, by January 15 of each year, the 
Department shall develop and provide to the Colorado Departments of 
Education, Early Childhood, and Human Services a standardized document 
regarding immunizations. The standardized document must include, but not be 
limited to: 
1.  
A list of the immunizations required for enrollment in a school and the age 
at which the immunization is required; 
2.  
A list of immunizations currently recommended for children by AAP and 
the recommended age at which each immunization should be given; 
3.  
A place on the document where a school can include the school’s specific 
immunization and exemption rates for the MMR vaccine and for every 
other vaccine for the school’s enrolled student population from the prior 
school year compared to the vaccinated children standard described in 
Section 25-4-911, C.R.S.; and 
4.  
A statement that the school is required to collect and report the 
information pursuant to Section 25-4-902 (4)(a), C.R.S., and that the 
school does not control the school’s specific immunization and exemption 
rates or establish the vaccinated children standard described in Section 
25-4-911, C.R.S. 
B.  
Annually, by January 31 of each year, the Colorado Departments of Education, 
Early Childhood, and Human Services shall post this standardized document on 
their websites. 
C.  
Annually, on or before April 15 of each year, a school shall directly distribute the 
document to the parent or guardian of each student enrolled in its school, or 
emancipated students consistent with Section 25-4-903 (5), C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-2 
Disease Control and Public Health Response Division 
 
23 
1.  
The school shall include on the document the school's specific 
immunization and exemption rates for the measles, mumps, and rubella 
vaccine for the school's enrolled student population for the prior school 
year compared to the vaccinated children standard described in Section 
25-4-911, C.R.S. 
2.  
The school may include on the document the school's specific 
immunization and exemption rates for any other vaccine for the school's 
enrolled student population for the prior school year.

C O D E O F C O L O R A D O R E G U L A TI O N S  
6 C C R 1 0 0 9 - 2 
Di s e a s e C o ntr ol a n d P u bli c H e alt h R e s p o n s e Di vi si o n  
 
2 4  
A p p e n di x A  
T h e b el o w t a bl e d e s cri b e s t h e r e q uir e d n u m b er of d o s e s f or st u d e nt s att e n di n g p u bli c, 
pri v at e, or p ar o c hi al s e c o n d ar y s c h o ol s t hr o u g h gr a d e t w el v e w h o ar e a g e d 1 9 t hr o u g h 
2 1 y e ar s.  
• 
C ol u m n A s p e cifi e s t h e v a c ci n e.  
• 
C ol u m n B d e s cri b e s t h e n u m b er of d o s e s a st u d e nt w o ul d h a v e r e c ei v e d 
h a d t h e y b e e n v a c ci n at e d o n ti m e, a c c or di n g t o T a bl e 1 i n t h e d o c u m e nt 
i n c or p or at e d b y r ef er e n c e i n S e cti o n II of t h e s e r ul e s. 
o 
T o a s s e s s v ali dit y of v a c ci n e s a d mi ni st er e d b e hi n d s c h e d ul e t o a 
st u d e nt b ef or e t h e y t ur n e d 1 9 y e ar s of a g e, r ef er t o T a bl e 2 i n t h e 
d o c u m e nt i n c or p or at e d b y r ef er e n c e i n S e cti o n II of t h e s e r ul e s, 
i n cl u di n g: 
 
D T a P: D o s e 5 i s n ot r e q uir e d if D o s e 4 w a s a d mi ni st er e d o n 
or aft er t h e 4t h birt h d a y a n d at l e a st si x m o nt h s aft er D o s e 3.  
 
P oli o: D o s e 4 i s n ot r e q uir e d if D o s e 3 w a s a d mi ni st er e d o n 
or aft er t h e 4t h birt h d a y a n d at l e a st si x m o nt h s aft er D o s e 2.  
• 
C ol u m n C d e s cri b e s t h e n u m b er of v a c ci n e d o s e s r e q uir e d f or st u d e nt s 
a g e d 1 9 t hr o u g h 2 1 y e ar s w h o di d n ot c o m pl et e t h eir v a c ci n ati o n s 
a c c or di n g t o t h e s c h e d ul e i n c or p or at e d b y r ef er e n c e i n S e cti o n II of t h e s e 
r ul e s, b ef or e t h e a g e of 1 9.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-2 
Disease Control and Public Health Response Division 
 
25 
 
Students attending public, private, or parochial secondary schools through grade twelve who 
are aged 19 through 21 years  
Column A 
Column B 
Column C 
 
Hepatitis B (HepB) 
3 
2-, 3-, or 4-dose series:  
• 2-dose series aged 18+ (2-dose formulation(s), 
spaced at least 4 weeks apart.  
• 3-dose series at 0, 1-2 months, 6 months 
(minimum intervals of four weeks between Dose 
1 and Dose 2, eight weeks between Dose 2 and 
Dose 3, and 16 weeks between Dose 1 and Dose 
3) 
• 3 dose series aged 18+ (HepA-HepB) at 0, 1, 
and 6 months. (Minimum interval of 4 weeks 
between Dose 1 and Dose 2, and 5 months 
between Dose 2 and Dose 3) 
• 4–dose series aged 18+ (HepA–HepB) 
accelerated schedule of 3 doses at 0, 7, and 21–
30 days, followed by a final dose at 12 months. 
Diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis 
(DTaP)  
5 
Not applicable - DTaP products are only licensed 
through 6 years of age.  
Tetanus, diphtheria, 
pertussis (Tdap) 
1 
1-, 2-, 3-, or 4- dose series: 
• 1 dose: Completed primary series with either 
DTaP or Td and did not receive Tdap at age 10 
years or older: 1 dose Tda

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-2 
Disease Control and Public Health Response Division 
 
26 
Students attending public, private, or parochial secondary schools through grade twelve who 
are aged 19 through 21 years  
Column A 
Column B 
Column C 
 
• 1-3 doses for those who are unvaccinated or 
who have an incomplete primary vaccination 
series require the remaining doses (1, 2, or 3) to 
complete a 3–dose primary series. 1 dose Tdap 
followed by 1 dose Td or Tdap at least 4 weeks 
later, and a third dose of Td or Tdap 6–12 months 
later (Tdap is preferred as first dose and can be 
substituted for any Td dose) 
• A 4-dose series is needed if the first DTaP was 
given before one year of age. 
Polio (IPV) 
4 
 
1-, 2-, 3 dose series:  
• 1-3 doses to complete a three-dose series for 
unvaccinated or incompletely vaccinated 
individuals. Dose 1 is spaced 4 weeks from dose 
2. Dose 3 is spaced 6 months from dose 2.  
Measles, mumps, rubella 
(MMR) 
2 
2 doses: Four weeks between Dose 1 and Dose 2.  
• If two live vaccines are not given on the same 
day, there must be at least a 28-day interval 
between the two doses. 
Varicella (chickenpox) 
2 
2 doses: Four weeks between Dose 1 and Dose 2. 
• If two live vaccines are not given on the same 
day, there must be at least a 28-day interval 
between the two doses.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-2 
Disease Control and Public Health Response Division 
 
27 
______________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Rule I, Table 1, Table 2 eff. 03/01/2008. 
Rule I, Table 1 eff. 03/02/2009. 
Rules I-XI, Table 1 eff. 12/30/2010. 
Rules I.L., II. A., Table 1 eff. 07/01/2012. 
Rule XI emer. rule eff. 01/16/2013. 
Rule XI, Table 1, Table 2 eff. 04/14/2013. 
Rules I-IV, VI, IX, XI eff. 10/15/2014. Table 1, Table 2 repealed eff. 10/15/2014. 
Rules I-VII, XII eff. 07/01/2015. 
Rules I-IX eff. 10/15/2015. Rules III.C-D repealed eff. 10/15/2015. 
Rules II, III, VII, IX eff. 07/15/2016. 
Rules I.C-IV.A, VI.A-VII.A.11, IX.A.1, IX.E-F eff. 07/30/2017. 
Entire rule eff. 08/14/2018. 
Rules I-IV, VI-X, XII-XIV eff. 01/14/2021. 
Rules III.D-E eff. 02/14/2022. Rule III.B.4 repealed eff. 02/14/2022. 
Rules I.G, I.I, I.O, I.Q, I.R, II.E, V.A, IX.A.1.a, IX.B.2.a eff. 05/15/2023. 
Entire rule eff. 01/05/2026. 
Entire rule eff. 02/14/2026.
