---
id: "6_CCR_1010-13"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "6 CCR 1010-13"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=414&fileName=6%20CCR%201010-13&type=pdf"
---

#### 6_CCR_1010-13. 6 CCR 1010-13

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
SANITARY STANDARDS FOR PENAL INSTITUTIONS 
6 CCR 1010-13 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
______________________________________________________________________ 
1.0  GENERAL PROVISIONS: 
1.1  PURPOSE: 
The purpose of these “Sanitary Standards” is to establish standards for the protection of the 
health and safety of the inmates of Colorado penal institutions and the general public. 
1.2  APPLICATION: 
a.  The provisions of these “Sanitary Standards” are applicable to the maintenance, sanitation, 
environmental conditions, occupancy, and use of penal institutions as defined, the 
grounds, and the accessory structures thereto. 
b.  Penal institutions in operation prior to the effective date of these standards and which do not 
meet all design, construction and equipment requirements of these standards, may be 
deemed acceptable if in good repair and capable of being maintained in a sanitary 
condition and provided the facilities pose no hazard to health. 
c.  Any penal institution may request a variance from any requirement of these standards when 
the institution believes that the requirement does not apply or has been too rigidly 
applied. All variance requests shall be submitted to the Department in writing, stating the 
section for which a variance is being requested and the reason for the request. The 
Department may grant a variance If: 
1.  Such variance is consistent with the purpose and intent of these standards; and 
2.  It is consistent with the protection of the public health. 
1.3  REFERENCES: 
A copy of any reference rule, code, or standard that has been incorporated in these standards is 
available for reference from the director at the Consumer Protection Division, Colorado 
Department of Public Health and Environment, 4300 Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, 
Colorado 80246-1530. This reference does not include later amendments to or editions of the 
incorporated material. Additionally, any material that has been incorporated may be examined at 
any state publication/depository library. Copies of the incorporated materials have been sent to 
the State Publication Depository and Distribution Center, and are available for interlibrary loans. 
2.0  DEFINITIONS 
2.1  Approved means acceptable to the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment or its 
authorized agents or employees based on determination of conformance with applicable codes, 
regulations, standards, and good public health practices. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-13 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
2 
2.2  Correctional Facility means any penal institution under the supervision of the Colorado Department of 
Corrections in which persons are or may be lawfully held in custody as a result of conviction of a 
crime. 
2.3  Day Room means any central lounge, recreation, exercise or other room in a penal institution used 
for group assemblage by inmates. 
2.43  dB(a) Scale means a weighed sound pressure level as measured with a sound level meter using 
the “A” weighing network. The standard notation is dB(a). 
2.5  Department means the “Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment” and its authorized 
agents and employees. 
2.6  Foot Candle means a unit of measuring the intensity of illumination, defined as the amount of light 
thrown on a surface one foot away from the light source. 
2.7  Grounds means exterior yard areas or premises. 
2.8  Holding Facility means a confinement facility, for which the custodial authority is usually less than 
forty-eight (48) hours, where arrested persons are held pending release, adjudication, or transfer 
to another facility. Holding facilities shall be exempt from meeting provisions of Sections 8.2, 8.3, 
8.4, 8.5, 8.10, and 8.11. 
2.9  Housing Unit means a group or cluster of single and/or multiple occupancy cells contiguous to day or 
activity room. 
2.10  Inmate means any individual, whether in pretrial, unsentenced, or sentenced status, who is confined 
in a penal institution. 
2.11  Local Detention Facility means a city, county, city and county or regional jail, camp, holding facility 
or other penal institution that detains persons for more than 48 hours and is used as a detention 
center for persons facing criminal charges and for persons convicted of misdemeanor and felony 
crimes. 
2.12  Medical Clinic or Community Clinic means a clinic that meets the licensure requirements of Chapter 
II and the regulations of Chapter IX of the Colorado Department of Public Health and 
Environment, Standards for Hospitals and Health Facilities. 
2.13  Multiple Occupancy Cell means any room or rooms in a penal institution used or intended to be 
used for sleeping or living purposes in which more than one and less than five inmates are 
confined. 
2.14  Multiple Occupancy Housing Dormitory means any area, room or rooms in a penal institution used 
or intended to be used for sleeping or living purposes in which more than four and less than fifty 
inmates are confined. 
2.15  Penal Institution means any, local detention center, correctional facility, holding facility, secure 
residential treatment center, prison, camp, or other facility, in which persons are or may be 
lawfully held in custody. The term does not include hospitals licensed by the Colorado 
Department of Public Health and Environment under provisions of section 25-3-101(1), C.R.S., et. 
seq., and child care centers defined as such in section 26-6-102(1.5), C.R.S., et. seq., and 
licensed by the Colorado Department of Human Services. 
2.16  Refuse means all combustible or non combustible, putrescible or non putrescible solid or liquid 
wastes.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-13 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
3 
2.17  Secure Residential Treatment Center means a facility operated under private ownership that is 
licensed by the Colorado Department of Human Services to provide twenty-four-hour group care 
and treatment in a secure setting for five or more children or persons up to age twenty-one years 
over whom the juvenile court retains jurisdiction pursuant to section 12-2-102 (5), C.R.S., et. seq., 
who are committed by a court pursuant to an adjudication of delinquency or pursuant to a 
determination of guilt of a delinquent act or having been convicted as an adult and sentenced for 
an act which would be a crime if committed in Colorado, or in the committing jurisdiction, to be 
placed in a secure facility. 
2.18  Single Occupancy Cell means any room or rooms in a penal institution used or intended to be used 
for sleeping or living purposes in which one inmate is confined. 
2.19  Solid Waste means garbage, refuse and other discarded materials as defined in section 30-20-
101(6)(a),C.R.S.,et. seq. 
2.20  Temporary Local Detention Facility means the residential housing and associated facilities operated 
by a local detention facility for the management of special programs and inmates, such as the 
residential community corrections programs [pursuant to 17-26-128, C.R.S., et. seq.] commonly 
known as work release or weekender programs. Inmates are housed for periods of less than 48 
hours. 
2.21  Unencumbered Cell Space means useable space that is not obstructed by furnishings or fixtures. At 
least one dimension of the space which is not obstructed is no less than seven feet. In 
determining space which is not obstructed, all fixtures and furnishings must be in operational 
position. 
3.0  BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS 
3.1  All habitable and service buildings shall be designed and constructed according to applicable state 
and local building, mechanical and fire codes. When local building and/or fire departments have 
adopted codes equivalent to or more stringent than the above, those codes shall apply. 
Correctional facilities shall be designed and constructed according to the 1997 Uniform Building 
Code and 1997 Uniform Mechanical Code. 
3.2  The electrical system shall be installed and maintained in accordance with the standards adopted by 
the state electrical board pursuant to section 12-23-104(2)(a), C. R. S., et. seq. 
3.3  All grounds and premises shall be well drained, graded and surfaced where necessary, free from 
depressions in which water may stand, and free of refuse, litter, animal droppings, insect and 
rodent harborage, weed overgrowth, and unused equipment. The grounds and soils shall not 
contain hazardous levels of toxic chemicals or substances. 
3.4  Livestock shall not be located less than fifty (50) feet from any dwelling. 
3.5  Common use exterior areas shall be adequately illuminated at night with light level intensities of at 
least five (5) foot candles. 
3.6  The building or buildings wherein a penal institution is operated shall be maintained in good repair 
and shall not pose a health hazard to the inmates housed in the facility. Buildings shall be 
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition. 
3.7  Habitable and service buildings shall be structurally sound, shall provide protection for the occupants 
against the elements, shall be so constructed as to facilitate cleaning, and shall be maintained in 
good repair and in a safe, clean condition.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-13 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
4 
4.0  WATER SUPPLY AND PLUMBING SYSTEM 
4.1  Plumbing shall be sized, installed, and maintained in accordance with applicable state and local 
plumbing codes, ordinances, regulations and standards. Plumbing shall be designed and 
constructed according to the Colorado plumbing code as required by section 12-58-104.5, C.R.S., 
et. seq. Where local building departments have adopted codes equivalent to or more stringent 
than the above, those codes shall apply, 
4.2  Adequate, safe potable water for the needs of the penal institution shall be provided from a source 
constructed, maintained and operated according to regulation. 
4.3  The water supply system shall deliver water at normal operating pressures (15 pounds per square 
inch minimum) to all fixtures and equipment. 
4.4  Transported water shall be obtained from an approved source and transported, stored, and 
dispensed in an approved manner. 
4.5  Faucets on non-potable water supply systems used for irrigation or similar purposes shall be 
physically separated from the potable water supply system and the faucets on the non-potable 
water system shall be clearly marked as unsafe for drinking. 
4.6  Plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in good working order and in a clean sanitary condition. 
4.7  The potable water supply shall be installed and maintained to preclude the possibility of backflow or 
back siphonage of non-potable, used, unclean, polluted and contaminated water, or other 
substances, into any part of the potable water system. 
4.8  A properly installed approved backflow prevention device shall be provided for all potable water 
supply outlets which are capable of receiving a hose connection. 
4.9  Hose bibs with running water or an alternate approved method shall be provided for cleaning 
walkways, courts, passageways and other common use areas. 
5.0  SEWAGE DISPOSAL 
5.1  Facilities, approved by the Department, shall be provided and maintained for the treatment and 
sanitary disposal of solid and liquid wastes. 
5.2  Where a public sewer system is available, all plumbing fixtures and all building sewers shall be 
connected thereto. If a public sewer system is not available, a sewage disposal system meeting 
the requirements of the department shall be provided and all plumbing fixtures and building sewer 
lines connected thereto, as required by sections 25-8-702 (1), and 25-10-105 (1), C.R.S., et. seq. 
5.3  Where non-water carriage sanitary facilities are permitted, they shall be provided and installed in 
accordance with requirements of the Department. 
5.4  In all new penal institutions and penal institutions modifying sewage disposal systems or expanding 
their usage beyond the design capacity of the sewage disposal system, plans shall be submitted 
to the department for review and approval in accordance with provisions of section 25-10-105, 
C.R.S., et. seq., prior to construction. 
6.0  SOLID WASTE AND REFUSE DISPOSAL

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-13 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
5 
6.1  The storage, collection, transportation and disposal of garbage, refuse and recyclable materials shall 
be so conducted as to control odors, insects, rodents, accidents, fire hazards, air pollution, and at 
a frequency not to create a nuisance. 
6.2  Interior garbage and rubbish containers shall be easily cleanable and shall be emptied whenever full. 
6.3  Discarded or waste material held for recycling or return shall be removed from the premises often 
enough to prevent the development of objectionable odors and the attraction of insects and 
rodents. 
6.4  Exterior garbage and rubbish containers shall be equipped with tight fitting covers, shall be easily 
cleanable, well maintained, and located a minimum of twenty-five (25) feet from food service 
areas and housing units. 
6.5  Exterior refuse containers shall be stored on a smooth surface of nonabsorbent material,such as 
concrete or machine laid asphalt, or other cleanable surface approved by the Department. 
6.6  Solid waste shall be routinely collected and removed from the premises as often as necessary, but 
not less than once weekly, and disposed of at a lawful disposal site in accordance with 
requirements of the Colorado Solid Waste Disposals Site and Facilities Act, section 30-20-100.5, 
C. R. S., et seq. 
6.7  Penal institutions operating a solid waste disposal site shall comply with the requirements of the 
Colorado Solid Waste Disposal Site and Facilities Act, section 30-20-100.5,C. R. S., et. seq. 
7.0  INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL 
7.1  Rodents and insects shall be controlled by approved sanitary practices, vermin proofing of buildings, 
and other approved control methods, to maintain the facility free from vermin. 
7.2  Openings to the outside in habitable and service buildings shall be effectively protected against the 
entry of insects and rodents by tight-fitting, self-closing doors and closed, tight-fitting windows or 
screening, controlled air currents or other methods approved by the Department Screen doors 
shall be self-closing, and screens for windows, skylights, transoms, intake and exhaust air ducts, 
and other openings to the outside shall be tight-fitting and free of breaks. Screening material shall 
be not less than 16 mesh to the inch. 
7.3  All foundations shall be rodent-proof and openings between the floor and bottom of exterior doors, 
when closed, shall be no greater than one-fourth inch (0.635 cm). 
8.0  HOUSING 
Space 
8.1  All cells or sleeping areas in which inmates are confined shall conform with the following 
requirements; except a secured residential treatment center shall meet the requirements 
of the Colorado Department of Human Services Minimum Rules and Regulations for 
Secure Residential Treatment Centers, effective 5/1/92. 
Type of Occupancy 
Unencumbered Space per Occupant 
Single occupancy cell 
35 square feet 
Multiple occupancy cell 
25 square feet

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-13 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
6 
Multiple occupancy housing dormitory1 
25 square feet 
 
1SLEEPING AREA PARTITIONS ARE REQUIRED IF MORE THAN FOUR PEOPLE IN SLEEPING AREA 
8.2  In Correctional Facilities, when confinement exceeds ten (10) continuous hours per day, 
there shall be at least eighty (80) square feet of total floor space per occupant.  In Local 
Detention Facilities, when confinement exceeds ten (10) continuous hours per day, there 
shall be at least seventy (70) square feet of total floor space per occupant. 
8.3  Cells/rooms shall have a ceiling height of not less than eight (8) feet. Furnishings 
8.4  Basic housing equipment shall be provided in residential custodial facilities including tables, 
chairs, beds, and storage for clothing and personal effects, and shall be easily cleanable, 
kept clean, and in good repair. 
8.5  Sleeping facilities shall be provided for each occupant except where provision of same would 
be hazardous to an inmate. Sleeping facilities shall consist of beds, bunks, or cots 
complete with mattresses which shall be clean, in good repair, and so constructed as to 
afford reasonable comfort. 
8.6  Beds shall be spaced not closer than thirty-six (36) inches laterally or end to end, and 
double-deck facilities shall be spaced not less than forty-eight (48) inches laterally or end 
to end. In cases of temporary overcrowding, multiple-occupancy cell and dormitory 
housing beds shall be configured to mitigate the spread of disease. Screening partitions 
shall be used to prevent droplet infection. There shall be a clear ceiling height above the 
mattress of not less than thirty-six (36) inches and clear space of at least twenty-seven 
(27) inches between mattresses of a double bunk. 
8.7  Each inmate confined to a cell/room for ten (10) or more continuous hours daily shall be 
provided a sleeping area with the following: a sleeping surface and mattress at least 
twelve (12) inches off the floor; a writing surface and proximate area to sit; storage for 
personal items; and a place to store clothes. Each inmate confined to a cell/room for less 
than ten (10) hours daily shall be provided a sleeping area with the following: a sleeping 
surface and mattress at least twelve (12) inches off the floor; storage for personal items; 
and a place to store clothes. 
Dayrooms 
8.8  Day rooms with space for varied inmate activities shall be provided contiguous to the inmate 
housing unit or dormitory. Day rooms shall provide a minimum of 35 square feet of space 
per inmate for the maximum number of inmates who use the dayroom at one time, and 
no day room shall encompass less than 100 square feet of space (exclusive of lavatories, 
showers and toilets). 
8.9  Day room furnishings shall be of appropriate design and shall be maintained in a clean and 
sanitary manner. Dayrooms shall provide sufficient seating and writing surfaces for every 
inmate using the dayroom at one time. 
8.10  Outdoor and covered/enclosed exercise areas shall be provided. 
Special Management Housing

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-13 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
7 
8.11  Segregation housing units shall provide living conditions that approximate those of the 
general inmate population, except where provision of the same would pose a serious 
threat to life, property, staff, the segregated inmate or other inmates. Segregation 
cells/rooms shall permit the inmates assigned to them to converse with and be observed 
by staff members. 
9.0  ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS 
9.1  Adequate light and ventilation shall be provided by means of windows, skylights, or by artificial 
lighting and mechanical ventilation. 
9.2  Artificial lighting shall be provided throughout the penal institution. Cells, dormitories, toilet rooms, 
shower rooms, and day rooms shall have light levels of at least thirty (30) 'foot candles. Service 
rooms, corridors, hallways, stairs, other exit ways, storage and utility areas shall have light level 
intensities of at least ten (10) foot candles. 
9.3  The ventilation system shall supply at least 10 cubic feet per minute of circulated air per occupant. In 
new or remodeled facilities, the ventilation system shall supply at least 15 cubic feet per minute of 
circulated air per occupant with a minimum of five cubic feet per minute of outside air. Toilet 
rooms and cells with toilets shall have no less than four air changes per hour. 
9.4  Temperatures in indoor living and work areas shall be maintained at the appropriate summer and 
winter comfort zones. Indoor air temperatures of at least 61 °F during the coldest months and less 
than 86 °F in the warmest months shall be maintained. 
9.5  In industrial areas, hearing protection shall be provided when noise levels exceed 70 dBA (A Scale). 
10.0  TOILETS, LAVATORIES, AND SHOWERS 
10.1  Floors, walls, and ceilings of all toilet rooms, shower rooms, and dressing rooms shall be smooth, 
easily cleanable, nonabsorbent, and shall be maintained in good repair and in a clean and 
sanitary condition. Floors in shower rooms or shower stalls shall have nonslip surfaces. Floors in 
toilet rooms, showers, and shower dressing room shall slope to drain. 
10.2  There shall be toilets, lavatories and showers in each penal institution in the minimum numbers. 
Male 
Female 
Toilets 
1 per cell or 
1 per cell or 
  
1:10; add 1 for each 
1:8; add 1 for each 
  
additional 25 males over 10 
additional 20 females over 8 
Showers 
1:8 
1:8 
Over 150, add 1 per 20 
Lavatories 
1 per cell or 
1 per cell or 
  
1:12; add one for each 
1:12; add one for each 
  
additional 20 males over 12 
additional 15 females over 
12

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-13 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
8 
Urinals* 
1:25; over 150, add 1 fixture for each additional 50 males 
 
*For each urinal added in excess of the minimum required, one toilet may be deducted. The number of toilets shall not be reduced to 
less than two-thirds of the minimum required. Trough urinals are prohibited. 
10.3  No toilet space shall be less than thirty (30) inches in width, and there shall be not less than twenty-
four (24) inches of clear space in front of a toilet. 
10.4  Shower heads shall be spaced at least thirty-six (36) inches apart with a minimum of nine (9) square 
feet of floor space for gang and straight line shower installations. 
10.5  Shower dry dressing room space at least equivalent to the shower's floor area shall be provided 
adjacent to the shower facilities. 
10.6  Inmates shall have access to operable showers and lavatories with temperature-controlled hot and 
cold running water. Hot water for the showers shall be thermostatically controlled to temperatures 
ranging from 100° F −120° F ± 3° f to ensure the safety of inmates and promote good hygienic 
practices. 
10.7  Lavatories shall be provided with hot and cold running water. 
10.8  Lavatories shall be equipped with combination mixing faucets or mixing valves. 
10.9  Toilet paper, soap and single service towels or hand drying devices shall be provided in all common 
use or centralized toilet rooms that are not considered to be part of housing units. The use of 
common towels is prohibited. 
10.10  Drinking faucets shall be provided at a minimum ratio of one per cell block/level or in individual 
rooms and one in each exercise and day room. 
10.11  Utility sinks shall be provided at a minimum ratio of one per floor or per one hundred (100) 
inmates. 
11.0  PERSONAL HYGIENE 
11.1  Clean clothing, drinking cups, cloth towels, soap, toothbrushes, combs, toothpaste or tooth powder, 
toilet paper, and other personal articles as required, shall be available to each inmate for his/her 
individual use. Personal hygiene products shall be placed in a lined waste receptacle and 
disposed of in a sanitary manner in accordance with section 6.1 of these standards. 
11.2  Inmates shall be permitted to bathe or shower at least three (3) times per week or more often if 
necessary for personal cleanliness. 
11.3  Individual clean towels shall be available to each inmate. The use of common towels is prohibited. 
11.4  Haircutting and shaving facilities shall be provided or made available and shall be maintained in a 
clean and sanitary manner. Common use of razors, shaving brushes and cups is prohibited. 
11.5  Cleaning material, supplies, tools, and equipment needed for maintenance of the facility shall be 
provided and shall be stored in a separate room. 
12.0  BEDDING. LINEN AND CLOTHING

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-13 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
9 
12.1  Mattresses shall be maintained in good repair, and provided in a clean sanitary condition upon each 
change of occupancy. The mattress shall be constructed of easily cleanable material, and shall 
be cleaned and sanitized whenever soiled. 
12.2  All sheets, pillow cases, towels and wash cloths, and other linens and bedding shall be laundered 
with exposure to a water temperature of 140°F or above unless an approved disinfectant is 
applied in the rinse cycle or the dryer uses heat above 140°F as specified by the manufacturer. 
12.3  Inmates shall be issued suitable, clean bedding and linen and sufficient blankets to provide comfort 
under existing temperature controls. There shall be provisions for linen exchange, including 
towels and wash cloths at least weekly or when excessively soiled. 
12.4  Inmates shall have or be issued clean, well-maintained clothing as appropriate including, but not 
limited to: shirts and trousers or jumpsuits, undergarments, socks and shoes. 
12.5  Clean, well maintained special work clothing shall be provided when necessary to inmates assigned 
to food service, hospital, farm, garage, physical plant, maintenance shops, and other special work 
tasks. 
12.6  Inmate personal clothing shall be cleaned, disinfected and/or stored so as to control communicable 
diseases. 
12.7  Separate store rooms shall be provided for storage of personal property, soiled laundry, and for the 
storage of clean linen, bedding, and issued clothing. 
13.0  FOOD 
13.1  Each penal institution preparing food either off site or on site, or serving food shall obtain a license 
or a certificate of license as required by provisions of section 25-4-1610(1)(b), C.R.S., el seq. 
13.2  Food service activities shall be conducted in conformance with the Colorado Retail Food 
Establishment Rules and Regulations, 1999. 
13.3  Food not prepared on site shall be obtained from approved sources and shall betransported and 
served in an approved manner. 
13.4  Food manufacturing, processing, and storage not subject to section 25-4-1610(1)(b), C.R.S., el seq, 
shall be conducted in accordance with section 25-5-401, C.R.S., el seq, and 6 CCR 1010-3. 
14.0  MEDICAL 
14.1  Medical services shall be available under the supervision of a licensed physician. 
14.2  Personal observation and inquiry shall be made of each inmate, upon admission, as to chronic 
illness, or physical disability, vermin infestation, or possible communicable disease that may 
require medical attention. Such medical attention shall be immediately provided when necessary. 
14.3  A personal health evaluation shall be provided within thirty (30) days following admission or as may 
be necessary because of an illness complaint, observable illness or an injury. 
14.4  Medical clinics and community clinics operated within penal institutions shall meet the requirements 
of the Standard for Hospitals and Health Facilities, Chapter IX, Community Clinics or Community 
Clinic and Emergency Centers. A penal institution not licensed as a community clinic shall have 
available:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-13 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
10 
a.  Basic first aid equipment and medical supplies, as recommended by the American Red Cross, 
including the following: adhesive bandages, adhesive tape, antiseptic towelettes, latex 
barrier gloves, triangular bandage, sponge dressing pads of assorted sizes, instant ice 
compress, fabric fingertip and knuckle bandages, island bandages, adhesive telfa 
bandages, eye pads, povidone-iodine pads, alcohol cleansing pads, triple-antibacterial 
cream, conform bandage roll, scissors, tweezers, and an emergency blanket, 
b.  At least one staff member who has current certification from the American Red Cross 
Standard First Aid Course or an equivalent shall be on duty. 
c.  A written policy and procedure for providing 24-hour emergency medical and dental care shall 
be kept in each facility. The plan shall include at least the following: 
1.  Procedures for emergency evacuation of the inmate from the facility. 
2.  The emergency on-call physician and dental services when the emergency medical 
facility is not located in a nearby community. 
3.  A designated hospital emergency room or other appropriate health care facilities. 
14.5  Dental care shall be available for every inmate for relief of pain and control of infection under the 
direction and supervision of a dentist licensed in the state. 
14.6  Psychiatric aid and treatment shall be made available for emergencies or upon referral by the 
licensed physician in charge. 
14.7  Medications shall be stored in the original labeled container, separated from food, cleaning 
compounds and other toxic substances. If refrigeration is required, a separate refrigerator 
maintained for that purpose only, or an impervious, properly labeled, secondary container in a 
designated area of a refrigerator, separated from food and inaccessible to inmates, shall be 
supplied. 
15.0  FLAMMABLE AND TOXIC MATERIAL CONTROL 
15.1  The use of poisonous compounds to control weeds, rodents, insects, and other pests shall be used 
according to labeled instructions. 
15.2  All food, food utensils, and equipment, bedding, and other equipment, materials and items that will 
come into contact with food, staff, or inmates must be completely protected during the time 
pesticide application is being conducted. Pesticides shall be applied only in such a manner as to 
prevent skin contact and other exposure to inmates and staff. 
15.3  Only approved insecticides, rodenticides, and herbicides can be used. Application must strictly 
follow all label instructions and must be authorized by the appropriate authority. Rodenticides 
shall be dispensed in tamper proof boxes, must have a distinctive color so as not to be mistaken 
for food, and shall be in cake or pellet form. 
15.4  Restricted pesticides shall be applied only by a certified pest control applicator or under the direct 
supervision of a certified pest control applicator. 
15.5  A current material safety data sheet shall be provided for all poisonous, toxic, or hazardous 
substances and shall be available for review upon request

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-13 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
11 
15.6  Containers of poisonous or toxic materials shall be prominently and distinctly labeled for easy 
identification of contents. Poisonous or toxic materials shall not be transferred into food or drink 
containers. 
15.7  Poisonous or toxic materials shall not be stored or used in a way that could contaminate food, food 
utensils and equipment or bedding. 
15.8  Toxic or hazardous materials shall be stored in approved containers, separated by reactive group 
and stored in a ventilated, locked, fire resistant area or cabinet This requirement shall not pertain 
to quantities of materials that are stored for daily use. 
15.9  Sanitizers, cleaning compounds or other compounds intended for use on food contact surfaces and 
body contact surfaces shall not be used in a way that leaves a toxic residue on such surfaces. 
15.10  A written plan for response to and the cleanup of chemical spills shall be provided by the penal 
institution. A copy of the plan shall be kept on file in a location away from the areas where 
chemicals are stored. 
15.11  An easily accessible operational eye wash fountain must be provided in each industrial or 
vocational areas or other areas where corrosives or irritating chemicals are used. The eye wash 
fountain shall be clean and must be tested annually. The use of portable eye wash bottles as 
substitutes is not permitted. 
 
15.12  In new or extensively remodeled areas an easily accessible operational safety shower, capable of 
providing continuous flowing water, shall be provided for each industrial, vocational, or other 
areas where corrosives or irritating chemicals are used. The safety shower can be centrally 
located so as to serve more than one area if doors are not locked, and convenient prompt access 
is available. 
16.0  FIRE PROTECTION 
16.1  Protection from fire shall be provided by appropriate design, construction, and compartmentalization 
of facilities, an adequately trained staff, and development of operating, security, evacuation, and 
maintenance procedures. 
16.2  The penal institution shall have documentation of an annual inspection by local or state fire officials 
or other qualified person(s) and of periodic testing of the fire detection system. 
17.0  TEMPORARY LOCAL DETENTION FACILITIES 
17.1  A temporary local detention facility shall comply with the requirements of these standards, except as 
otherwise provided in this chapter. 
17.2  The Department may impose additional requirements to protect against health hazards related to 
the operation of the temporary facility. When no apparent health hazard will result, the 
Department may waive or modify requirements of these standards. 
17.3  Temporary local detention facilities shall be exempt from complying with the provisions of sections 
8.2, 8.3, 8.4, 8.9, 8.10 and 8.11 of these standards. 
18.0  RESPONSIBILITY

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-13 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
12 
18.1  Policies and practices shall be established at each penal institution to insure proper environmental, 
occupational and personal health conditions for protection of the health and safety of the inmates 
and staff. 
18.2  A jailor, deputy, police officer or other custodial personnel shall be available for inmates to contact in 
event of emergency, on a twenty-four (24) hour basis when the penal institution is occupied by 
any inmate under confinement. 
18.3  A routine operational maintenance program shall be conducted to keep the penal institution in a 
clean sanitary condition. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History
