---
id: "6_CCR_1009-10"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "6 CCR 1009-10"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=10938&fileName=6%20CCR%201009-10&type=pdf"
---

#### 6_CCR_1009-10. 6 CCR 1009-10

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
Office of STI/HIV/Viral Hepatitis 
COLORADO HIV AND AIDS PREVENTION GRANT PROGRAM 
6 CCR 1009-10 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Adopted by the Board of Health on May 17, 2023. 
1.1 
Definitions 
A. 
“Board” means the State Board of Health. 
B. 
“Advisory Committee” means the seven member committee set forth in Section 25-4-1404(1) (a), 
C.R.S. that is responsible for overseeing the Colorado Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) and 
Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) Prevention Program that shall fund medically 
accurate and evidence based HIV and AIDS prevention and education programs through a 
competitive grant process pursuant to Section 25-4-1403,C.R.S. 
C. 
“Office” Means The Office of STI/HIV/Viral Hepatitis 
D. 
“Colorado HIV and AIDS Prevention Grant Program” (CHAPP) means the grant program created 
to address local community needs in the areas of medically accurate HIV and AIDS prevention 
and education through a competitive grant process established pursuant to Section 25-4-1403(1), 
C.R.S. administered by the Office of STI/HIV/VH at the Colorado Department of Public Health 
and Environment. 
E. 
“Conflict of Interest” consists of one or more the following conditions: 
1. 
If a member of the Advisory Committee has an immediate personal, private, or financial 
interest in any matter pending before the Advisory Committee; 
2. 
If a member of the Advisory Committee has been an employee, consultant, officer, board 
member, advisor, grant writer, client, or volunteer for any of the agencies (whose grant 
applications are to be reviewed by the Advisory Committee) within the past twelve 
months, or has any other reasons that would prevent them from being an unbiased 
review panelist; 
3. 
All other individuals: a personal or financial interest that could reasonably be perceived 
as an interest that may influence an individual in their official duties. 
F. 
“Financial interest” means an interest held by an individual which is an ownership or vested 
interest in an entity or employment, or investment interests, or a prospective employment for 
which negotiations have begun, or a directorship or officership in an entity, or immediate family 
members. 
G. 
“Medically accurate HIV and AIDS prevention and education program” means: 
1. 
In accordance with credible medical publications, associations or agencies; 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-10 
Office of STI/HIV/Viral Hepatitis 
 
2 
2. 
Verified or supported by research conducted in compliance with accepted scientific 
methods and recognized as accurate and objective by professional organizations and 
agencies with expertise in the relevant field, such as the Centers For Disease Control 
And Prevention, National Alliance Of State And Territorial Aids Directors (NASTAD), Or 
The American Public Health Association (APHA), National Coalition Of Std Directors 
(NCSD).; 
3. 
Supported by peer-reviewed research which complies with accepted scientific methods, 
published in or by medical, scientific, psychological, sociological, government or public 
health publications, organizations or agencies – or information presented or provided by 
a reputable organization or agency which has expertise relating to sexual health, or; 
4. 
Locally adapted evidence based interventions and methods which: 
a. 
Pertain to the conscientious, explicit, and judicious use of current best evidence 
in making decisions. 
b. 
Use scientific data to confirm that the proposed diagnostic or therapeutic 
procedures are appropriate in light of their high probability of producing the best 
and most favorable outcome. 
c. 
Include activities that evaluation research has shown to be effective. 
d. 
Are based on the best documented scientific evidence currently available. 
e. 
Are based on systematic reviews of evidence, aimed at showing the relationship 
of the intervention to particular outcomes and an explicit process for translating 
the evidence into recommendations. 
H. 
“Comorbidities secondary to HIV infections” includes, but is not limited to, the scope of sexually 
transmitted infections, hepatitis, tuberculosis, substance abuse and mental health issues. 
I. 
“Urban” shall be a term applied to counties, having within the county boundaries, one or more 
population centers of 50,000 persons or more, and/or which according to Colorado HIV 
surveillance data have HIV cases that are 250 cases or more. 
J. 
“Rural” shall be a term applied to counties having fewer than 50,000 persons, or have less than 
250 reported HIV cases. 
1.2 
Program Goals 
The grant program is created to address local community needs by funding medically accurate HIV and 
AIDS prevention and education programs through a competitive grant process. The Office shall 
administer the program with the goal of developing a comprehensive approach that will decrease the 
acquisition of HIV in Colorado. 
1.3 
Procedures for Grant Application 
A. 
Grant Application Contents 
Grant applicant organizations seeking resources to provide HIV prevention and education 
programs will include the following information in their applications: 
1. 
Applicants will submit documentation to verify that the grant applicant is a non-profit 
organization that is either:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-10 
Office of STI/HIV/Viral Hepatitis 
 
3 
a. 
Governed by a board of directors, 
b. 
A tax-exempt organization 501 (c) (3) of the federal internal revenue code, or 
c. 
A county, district, or multiple public health agency. 
2. 
A description of how the applicant will provide medically accurate HIV prevention and 
education programs, to meet local community needs. The application must document that 
the HIV prevention and education program(s) is medically accurate. 
3. 
A description of the local HIV prevention or education issues(s) to be addressed, the 
geographic area and clients that shall be served and the history, experience, and cultural 
competence of the applicant to work with the targeted community or population, and 
provide services described in the application. The statement needs to include a 
description of the impact of HIV disease on the clients and community, the needs of the 
clients and community that will be served, and how the clients and community will benefit 
from the grant. 
4. 
Grant applications may also include activities related to conducting HIV prevention in 
conjunction with other comorbidities secondary to HIV. 
5. 
A description of the goal and objectives and activities planned to meet the goals and 
objectives. The description will be in the form of a scope of work that includes timelines 
for implementing the activities. 
6. 
A description of the roles and responsibilities of all staff funded through the application 
and partners or supporters. 
7. 
A detailed operative budget and budget narrative. 
8. 
A detailed evaluation plan which will include: 
a. 
A description of the applicant’s capacity to comply with and monitor the 
implementation of the grant requirements, 
b. 
A description of process and outcome measures, indicators, and data that will be 
used to evaluate the grantee’s ability to implement the scope of work and 
achieve the goals and objectives, 
c. 
Process measures shall include the number of clients to be reached, and when 
feasible, age, race, ethnicity, sex assigned at birth, gender identity, and sexual 
history, 
d. 
Outcome measures are required, those measures can include: increasing the 
number of people aware of their HIV status, early linkage to HIV care and 
treatment, increasing the number of individuals with knowledge relating to HIV 
and resources for prevention of HIV, improvement in attitudes and beliefs toward 
sexual health, increasing the number of people screened and referred to 
biomedical HIV prevention (PrEP and harm reduction). Outcome measures will 
be targeted to identify the number of people served, the type and cost of 
services, and the level of benefit or improvement achieved, 
e. 
Identifying the lessons the grantee learned from the implementation of the grant 
services, including discussion of the obstacles and how they were overcome as 
well as changes that would be made in the future,

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-10 
Office of STI/HIV/Viral Hepatitis 
 
4 
f. 
How the results will be used, disseminated, and communicated, and 
g. 
A detailed sustainability plan and timeline for implementing the plan to support 
the goals and objectives after the grant ends. 
B. 
Timelines for Grant Application 
Grant applications may be solicited on dates determined by the Office in consultation with the 
Advisory Committee. Applications will be reviewed within 120 days of submission and referral of 
recommended applications to the Board of Health will be within 180 days of submission. 
1.4 
Qualifications of an adequate proposal 
For a proposal to be accepted and included in the review process, the proposal must: 
A. 
Be signed by an individual that is authorized by the applicant to submit grant proposals. 
B. 
Provide the requisite number of copies and/or electronic copies as required by the department. 
C. 
Conform to the grant application requirements in rule 1.3. 
D. 
Include an acknowledgement by the applicant that any grant funded HIV prevention messages, 
images, and materials will be reviewed and approved by the Department prior to distribution. 
E. 
Include an acknowledgement by the applicant that all reports will be submitted electronically in a 
word processing software program compatible with Microsoft word 2007 (or higher) or excel 2007 
(or higher) format. 
1.5 
Criteria for Selecting Entities 
A. 
The Office shall solicit competitive applications. The Advisory Committee shall review applications 
received pursuant to Section 25-4-1403 and Section 25-4-1404 C.R.S. and submit to the Board 
and the Executive Director of the Department recommended recipients, recommended grant 
amounts, and the duration of each recommended grant. In making recommendations for grants, 
the Advisory Committee shall follow the purpose of the program as outlined in section 25- 4-1403. 
B. 
Funds will be distributed statewide and address the unmet needs of both urban and rural 
residents of Colorado and populations disproportionately affected by the epidemiological impact 
of HIV. 
C. 
In making recommendations for grants, the Advisory Committee shall also consider the 
distribution of federal funds in the areas of HIV prevention, education, and treatment to ensure 
funds are distributed in the state where there is the greatest unmet need. 
D. 
The following criteria will be used for selecting potential grantees: 
1. 
Grantees must have the capacity to adequately administer and monitor the grant. 
2. 
Grantees will provide medically accurate HIV prevention and education programs. 
3. 
Grantees may conduct HIV prevention in conjunction with other comorbidities secondary 
to HIV infection. 
4. 
Preference shall be given to applicants that have as one of their primary purposes HIV 
prevention and education.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-10 
Office of STI/HIV/Viral Hepatitis 
 
5 
5. 
Grantees must be non profit organizations that are governed by a board of directors, 
have the benefit of tax-exempt status pursuant section 501 (c) (3) of the federal “internal 
revenue code” or local health departments. 
6. 
Grantees shall not use funds to: 
A. 
Contribute to existing scholarships, directly to endowments, debt reduction, or 
related activities, 
B. 
Lobby or perform related activities, or 
C. 
Supplant funding for existing programs. 
7. 
No grant shall be awarded for a period that exceeds three years without approval from 
the CHAPP advisory committee, CDPHE Executive Director, and the Board. 
F. 
The Board shall have final authority to approve the grants administered under Section 25-4-1404 
and Section 25-4-1403 C.R.S. 
1. 
Within 30 days after receiving the Advisory Committee’s recommendations, the Executive 
Director shall submit their recommendations to the Board. 
2. 
If the Board disapproves a recommendation for a grant recipient, the Advisory Committee 
may submit a replacement recommendation within 30 days after disapproval. 
3. 
The Board shall award grants to the entities selected by the Advisory Committee 
specifying the amount and duration of each grant award. 
1.6 
Awarding of Program Grants 
A. 
The Board shall award grants to the selected entities, specifying the amount of the grant. 
B. 
Any actual or prospective applicant who is aggrieved in connection with the solicitation or award 
of a contract pursuant to Section 25-4-1403 may protest to the Executive Director of the 
department or their designee. 
1. 
Such protests must be submitted in writing within seven working days after such 
aggrieved person knows, or should have known, of the facts giving rise thereto. 
2. 
At the discretion of the Executive Director or their designee, protests may be placed on 
the agenda of the Advisory Committee for their consideration, and, if necessary, the 
Board. 
3. 
At the discretion of the Executive Director or their designee, awards may proceed 
pending the final outcome of a decision regarding a protest. 
4. 
At the discretion of the Board, a protest may result in changes in the final selection of 
entities receiving awards, the amount and duration of awards, and the termination of 
contracts or other agreements that were awarded pursuant to Section 25-4-1403. 
1.7 
Grantee Reporting Requirements 
Grantees will complete and submit monthly narrative reports no later than 30 days after the end of each 
month within the contract period.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-10 
Office of STI/HIV/Viral Hepatitis 
 
6 
A. 
Each monthly narrative report will include the grantee’s progress toward goals, implementation 
steps, scope of work activities, and challenges experienced in reaching goals. barriers, and 
challenges will be addressed by CDPHE with grantees as they arise. 
B. 
Work activities, and timeline for activities that were accomplished during the duration of the grant. 
barriers to timely achievement of the goals and objectives of the grant will be documented as part 
of CDPHE’s annual report. At the end of the grant period, the final report will include goals, 
objectives, implementation steps, scope of work activities and challenges experienced. 
1.8 
Conflict of Interest 
A. 
This section applies to any person: 
1. 
Who reviews submitted applications; or 
2. 
Who makes recommendations to the Board regarding which applicants receive grants 
and the amounts of said grants; or 
3. 
Who is a member of the Board or Advisory Committee. 
B. 
Prohibited Behavior. No person may be involved in the activities specified in subsection A of this 
section if that person has a conflict of interest, as that term is defined in section 1.1 herein. 
C. 
Responsibilities of Persons with a Potential Conflict of Interest. A person who believes that he or 
she may have a conflict of interest shall disclose the conflict as soon as he or she becomes 
aware of it. If the person is a member of the Advisory Committee, that person shall not vote on 
the matter for which the person has a conflict. Other activities of members of the Advisory 
Committee are subject to subparagraph 2 below. 
1. 
If the person is a member of the Advisory Committee and acting in their capacity as an 
Advisory Committee member, the person shall publicly disclose the conflict of interest to 
the Advisory Committee. If the Advisory Committee determines that a conflict of interest 
exists, the person shall recuse themselves from any of the activities specified in 
paragraph 1.7.A relating to the conflict. 
2. 
Any other person shall disclose the conflict of interest in writing to the Advisory 
Committee. If the Advisory Committee determines that the person has a conflict of 
interest, the person shall recuse themselves from any of the activities specified in 
paragraph 1.7.A relating to the conflict. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Rule 1.3.1 eff. 03/01/2008. 
Entire rule eff. 08/14/2014. 
Rules 1.1.B, 1.1.D, 1.3.B, 1.5.A, 1.5.F, 1.6.B eff. 05/15/2017. 
Entire rule eff. 07/15/2023.
