---
id: "6_CCR_1014-3"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "6 CCR 1014-3"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=9483&fileName=6%20CCR%201014-3&type=pdf"
---

#### 6_CCR_1014-3. 6 CCR 1014-3

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
State Board of Health 
CLEANUP OF METHAMPHETAMINE-AFFECTED PROPERTIES 
6 CCR 1014-3 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
 
Part 1: PROPERTY ASSESSMENT, DECONTAMINATION AND CLEARANCE 
1.0 
Purpose and applicability 
1.1 
Purpose. 6 CCR 1014-3, Parts 1, 2 and 3 (hereafter, “these regulations”) implement the directive 
of § 25-18.5-102, C.R.S.to establish rules for: 
1.1.1 
sampling, assessment and decontamination of illegal drug laboratories involving 
methamphetamine; 
1.1.2 
training and certification of persons involved in sampling, assessment and 
decontamination of such properties; 
1.1.3 
approval of trainers; 
1.1.4 
certification that such properties have been decontaminated to the standards established 
in these regulations; 
1.1.5 
assessment of administrative penalties; and 
1.1.6 
fees for the certification and monitoring of Contractors and Consultants, and for the 
approval of trainers. 
1.2 
Applicability - The requirements of this Part apply: 
1.2.1 
When an owner of property has received notification from a peace officer that chemicals, 
equipment, or supplies indicative of a methamphetamine-affected property are or have 
been located at the property. 
1.2.2 
When a methamphetamine-affected property is otherwise discovered, and the owner of 
the property where the methamphetamine-affected property is located has received 
notice. 
1.2.3. 
When screening level sampling is conducted at a property that has not been deemed a 
methamphetamine-affected property. 
1.3 
Properties that met the cleanup standards and documentation requirements of this Part 1 as it 
existed prior to the effective date of the 2014 amendments to this Part 1 shall be deemed in 
compliance with this Part 1. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
2 
1.4 
Materials that are removed or demolished in lieu of decontamination must be disposed of at a 
solid waste landfill, but are not otherwise subject to regulation under this Part 1. 
2.0 
Definitions. 
The following definitions apply to Parts 1, 2, and 3 of these regulations. 
“Aliquot” means a discrete sample comprising a known fraction of a composite sample.  Aliquots making 
up a composite sample must be of equal area or volume. 
“Assessment” means an evaluation of a property to determine the current condition, including the nature 
and extent of observable or detectable contamination, chemical storage, and disposal. 
“Building” means an enclosed structure which has the capacity to contain, and is designed for the shelter 
of, persons, animals, or property. “Building” includes manufactured homes as defined in § 38-29-102(6), 
C.R.S., and mobile homes as defined in § 38-12-201.5(2), C.R.S. 
“Caustic” means capable of burning or corroding by chemical action. 
“Certified Industrial Hygienist” or “CIH” means an individual who is certified by the American Board of 
Industrial Hygiene or its successor. 
“Chemical storage area” means any area where chemicals used in the manufacture of methamphetamine 
are stored or have come to be located. 
“Cleanup standard” means the numerical value, established in Section 7.0 of this Part 1, that causes the 
Consultant to determine if an area is compliant or noncompliant based on the results of sampling 
conducted in accordance with the sampling procedures presented in Section 6 of this Part 1. 
“Composite sample” means a sample comprised of multiple aliquots collected from separate locations. 
“Composite sample result” is the concentration of the analyzed contaminant per unit area. It is derived by 
dividing the total amount of the contaminant detected by the analytical method by the combined total area 
of the sample aliquots. Composite sample results for methamphetamine and iodine should be reported as 
x micrograms/100 cm2. 
“Consultant” means a Certified Industrial Hygienist or Industrial Hygienist who is not an employee, agent, 
representative, partner, joint venture participant, or shareholder of the Contractor or of a parent or 
subsidiary company of the contractor, and who has been certified under § 25-18.5-106 C.R.S and these 
regulations. 
“Contaminant” means a chemical residue resulting from the manufacturing, storage, processing or use of 
methamphetamine. 
“Contamination” or “Contaminated” means the presence of contaminants. 
“Contractor” means a person that is hired to decontaminate an illegal drug laboratory in accordance with 
the requirements of these regulations, and that is certified under § 25-18.5-106 C.R.S., and these 
regulations. 
“Cooking area” means any area where methamphetamine manufacturing is occurring or has occurred. 
“Corrosive” is an aqueous substance with a pH of 2.0 or less or 12.5 or greater.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
3 
“Decontamination” means the process of reducing the level of contamination at methamphetamine-
affected properties to the standards specified in Section 7.0 of this Part 1 using methods approved under 
these regulations. 
“Decontamination Supervisor” is a classification of Contractor. A Decontamination Supervisor is a person 
who is certified under Part 2 to supervise the decontamination of methamphetamine-affected properties 
by Decontamination Workers and Ventilation Contractors, and to decontaminate methamphetamine-
affected properties. 
“Decontamination Worker” is a classification of Contractor. A Decontamination Worker is a person who is 
certified under Part 2 to perform decontamination of methamphetamine-affected properties under the 
supervision of a Decontamination Supervisor. 
“Demolition” means the complete deconstruction and removal of all of a structure, including all framing 
and permanent structural components other than foundations or slabs. Demolition of a vehicle means 
crushing or shredding a motor vehicle to produce scrap metal. 
“Department” means the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment. 
“Detergent” means a surfactant or mixture of surfactants with cleaning properties in dilute solutions. 
“Discrete sample” means a sample collected from a single location and comprised of a single aliquot. 
“Discrete sample result” is the concentration of the analyzed contaminant per unit area. Discrete sample 
results for methamphetamine and iodine should be expressed in terms of x micrograms/100 cm2. 
“Disposal” means discharge, deposit, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of methamphetamine lab 
waste. Disposal also means the ultimate disposition of materials removed from contaminated properties in 
accordance with applicable regulatory requirements. 
“Documentation” means preserving a record of an observation through writings, drawings, photographs, 
or other appropriate means. 
“Dwelling” means a building designed or adapted for regular overnight accommodation of persons. 
“Encapsulation” means applying a surface sealant to create a physical barrier for the purpose of 
decreasing or eliminating potential exposure to any residual contaminants that may remain following 
decontamination. 
“Firm” means any public or private corporation, partnership, association, firm, trust, or estate. 
“HEPA filtration” means a filtering system capable of trapping and retaining at least 99.97 percent of all 
monodispersed particles 0.3 microns in diameter or larger. 
“Illegal drug laboratory” means the areas where controlled substances, as defined by § 18-18-102, 
C.R.S., have been manufactured, processed, cooked, disposed of, used, or stored and all proximate 
areas that are likely to be contaminated as a result of the manufacturing, processing, cooking, disposal, 
use, or storage. 
“Independent” means the absence of a business relationship or agreement between a Consultant and a 
Contractor that could give rise to a real or apparent conflict of interest in the conduct of activities that are 
regulated under these regulations. A Contractor and a Consultant are not independent of one another if 
either one is an employee, agent, representative, partner, joint venturer, shareholder, or parent or 
subsidiary company of the other.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
4 
“Industrial hygienist” has the same meaning as set forth in § 24-30-1402, C.R.S. 
“In good standing” means that the person possesses a current, valid certification or authorization under 
these regulations. 
“Limited exposure area” means an area that is not used, or intended to be used, as a living space or part 
of a ventilation system. Limited exposure areas include, but are not limited to, attics, crawl spaces, and 
wall cavities not used as duct runs. 
“Media” means the physical material onto which a sample substrate is collected. Media includes cotton 
gauze, glass fiber filters, MCE membranes, etc. 
“Methamphetamine” or “meth” means dextro-methamphetamine, levo-methamphetamine, and 
unidentified isomers of the same, any racemic mixture of dexto/levo methamphetamine, or any mixture of 
unidentified isomers of methamphetamine associated with CAS registration number 537-46-2. 
“Methamphetamine-affected property” is a type of illegal drug laboratory consisting of areas on a subject 
property where methamphetamine has been manufactured, processed, cooked, disposed of, used, or 
stored and all proximate areas that are likely to be contaminated as a result of the manufacturing, 
processing, cooking, disposal, use, or storage of methamphetamine or the chemicals used to 
manufacture methamphetamine. A multi-unit building (such as an apartment complex, condominium, or 
commercial building) may contain more than one methamphetamine-affected property. 
“Methamphetamine manufacturing” means the production, preparation, propagation, compounding, 
conversion, or processing of methamphetamine, either directly or indirectly. 
“Methamphetamine lab waste” means chemical wastes generated in, or apparatus and components used 
in the production of methamphetamine, but does not include drug paraphernalia such as pipes. 
“Must” is used to indicate a mandatory requirement. 
“Negative air unit” means a portable exhaust system equipped with HEPA filtration and capable of 
maintaining a constant high velocity airflow out of the contained area, resulting in a constant low velocity 
air flow into the contained area from adjacent areas. 
"Non-porous" means resistant to penetration of liquids, gases, powders, and includes non-permeable 
surfaces and materials that are sealed. Non-porous materials include metal, glass, and plastic. Materials 
such as concrete, wood, tile, ceramic, plaster, and drywall are non-porous only if they are painted or 
sealed and the paint or sealant is in good condition. 
“On-site wastewater treatment system” or “OWTS”“means an absorption system of any size or flow or a 
system or facility for treating, neutralizing, stabilizing, or dispersing sewage generated in the vicinity, 
which system is not part of or connected to a sewage treatment works. 
“Outbuilding” means any building on a property that is not, and does not contain, a dwelling. Outbuildings 
include, but are not limited to, garages, storage sheds, barns and silos. 
“Painted-over surface” means a surface that was painted after the cessation of contamination-causing 
activities but prior to the discovery of a methamphetamine-affected property. 
“Person” means any individual, public or private corporation, partnership, association, firm, trust, or 
estate; the state or any executive department, institution, or agency thereof; any municipal corporation, 
county, city and county, or other political subdivision of the state; or any other legal entity whatsoever 
which is recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
5 
“Personal Property” means anything subject to ownership that is not real property. 
"Porous" means easily penetrated or permeated by gases, liquids, or powders. Porous materials include, 
but are not limited to, fabric, carpet, cardboard, fiber-board, cork, wood, drywall, or any other permeable 
material that is not sealed or painted and in good condition. 
“Preliminary assessment” means an assessment of a methamphetamine-affected property in accordance 
with Section 4.0 of this Part 1. 
“Property” means anything that may be the subject of ownership or possession, including land, buildings, 
structures, vehicles, and personal belongings. 
“Property owner,” for the purposes of real property, means the person holding record fee title to real 
property. “Property owner” also means the person holding title to a manufactured home. With respect to 
personal property, the term means the person who lawfully owns such property. 
“Publicly owned treatment works” or “POTW” means a publicly owned domestic wastewater treatment 
facility. The term also means the municipality, as defined in 502(4) of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. § 
1362(4), which has jurisdiction over the indirect discharges to and the discharge from such treatment 
works. 
“Quality assurance” or “QA” means an integrated system of management activities involving planning, 
training, quality control, assessment, data review, reporting, and quality improvement to ensure that a 
process, item or service is of the type and quality needed and expected by the user. QA is a management 
function that deals with setting policy and running an administrative system of controls to ensure the 
usability of the product (e.g., data). 
“Quality control” or “QC” means a system of technical activities that measures the performance of a 
process, item, or service against a defined set of criteria or standard. QC is a technical function that 
includes activities such as calibrations and analyses of check samples (performance evaluation samples, 
duplicates, spikes, blanks, etc.) to assess the bias and precision associated with sample results. 
“Removal” means the taking out or stripping of material or surfaces from methamphetamine-affected 
properties up to, but not including, demolition. Removal includes taking personal property out of a 
structure, and physically separating contamination from material or surfaces. 
“Room” means a portion of space within a structure that is enclosed or partitioned off from other parts of 
the structure. Any space separated from other spaces by a door shall be considered a separate room, 
except that closets that are less than 75 ft2 are not rooms. Two spaces separated by a partition less than 
four (4) feet in height may be considered one room. Two spaces separated by 10 or more stairs shall be 
considered separate rooms. Crawl spaces and attics are not considered rooms. 
“Sampling” means the process of collecting measurements of a subset of a population to estimate the 
characteristics of the whole population. 
“Screening level sampling” means an assessment, in compliance with Section 9 and Section 6 of this Part 
1, of a property for the purpose of determining whether it is a methamphetamine-affected property. 
“Sealed” means closed or protected against exposure, leakage, or passage of liquids by coating. 
“Shall” is used to indicate a mandatory requirement. 
“Structure” means anything constructed or erected at a fixed location, whether installed on, above or 
below the surface of a parcel of land.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
6 
“Subject property” means the real property that is the subject of a screening level assessment, preliminary 
assessment, or decontamination and removal under these regulations. 
“Substrate” means the material from which a sample is being collected. Substrates may include soils, 
water, painted surfaces, carpet debris, unidentified powders, dust, etc. 
“Unit,” in the context of a multiple unit building, means a portion of the building that is subject to a 
separate ownership or leasehold interest, including, but not limited to, an apartment, condominium, co-op, 
townhome, half of a duplex, and office space. 
“Vacuum sample” means a non-airborne dust sample collected from a known surface area of a surface or 
material using standard vacuum sampling techniques as described in Section 6 of this Part 1. 
“Vehicle” means any object defined as a “vehicle” in § 42-1-102, C.R.S. “Vehicle” includes recreational 
vehicles, campers, buses with a toilet and a galley, trailers as defined in § 42-1-102(105) C.R.S., trailer 
coaches as defined in § 42-1-102(106)(a) C.R.S., and motor homes as defined in § 42-1-102(57), C.R.S. 
It also includes vehicles that are no longer capable of moving themselves because they have been 
partially disassembled (e.g., a motor home with the wheels and engine removed). 
“Ventilation Contractor” is a classification of Contractor. A Ventilation Contractor is a person who 
possesses a Ventilation Contractor certificate under Section 7 of Part 2 to perform decontamination of 
ventilation systems at methamphetamine-affected properties under the supervision of the 
Decontamination Supervisor. 
“Waste disposal area” means any area where chemicals used or generated in the manufacture of 
methamphetamine are disposed of or have come to be located. 
“Wipe sample” means a surface sample collected by wiping a sample media on the surface being 
sampled in accordance with Section 6 of this Part 1. 
3.0 
Screening Level Assessment of Properties not known to be methamphetamine-affected 
properties. 
This section establishes procedures and standards for testing residential real property pursuant to § 38-
35.7-103, C.R.S. Screening level assessments pursuant to this section are for the purpose of determining 
if the subject property is a methamphetamine-affected property. The procedures in this section are not to 
be used to make clearance decisions. 
3.1 
No person other than a Consultant in good standing may conduct screening level assessments. 
The Consultant shall personally inspect the subject property to gather all of the information 
necessary to prepare a Screening Level Assessment Report. 
3.2 
If the Consultant conducts a background check, and this background check indicates that the 
subject property is a methamphetamine-affected property, then the preliminary assessment 
requirements of Section 4 and Section 6 of this Part 1 apply in lieu of this section. 
3.3 
The Consultant shall document any observed signs that the subject property is a 
methamphetamine-affected property. If any signs of a methamphetamine-affected property are 
observed, then the preliminary assessment requirements of Section 4 and Section 6 of this Part 1 
apply in lieu of this section.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
7 
3.4 
If the screening level assessment is performed in connection with a proposed transaction for the 
purchase of a multi-unit building, each accessible unit must be inspected for signs that the unit 
has been used as an illegal drug laboratory. Any unit exhibiting signs of being a 
methamphetamine-affected property is subject to the preliminary assessment requirements of 
Section 4 and Section 6 of this Part 1 in lieu of this section. If the screening level assessment 
involves a single unit with multiple tenants, each tenant’s living space must be inspected unless 
access is not granted. All access limitations shall be documented in the Screening Level 
Assessment Report in accordance with Section 3.7 of this Part 1. 
3.5 
The Consultant shall conduct limited composite wipe sampling of the structure(s) for 
methamphetamine (including fixtures, as appropriate), in accordance with Section 6 of this Part 1. 
3.6 
The analytical laboratory’s Practical Quantitation Limit (PQL) for methamphetamine may not 
exceed 0.1ug. If any of the composite sample results are above 0.2 ug/100cm2, the property 
owner must choose between the following two courses of action: 
3.6.1 
The subject property may be assumed to be a methamphetamine-affected property, with 
no further sampling, and thus must comply with the preliminary assessment and 
decontamination requirements of this Part 1; or 
3.6.2 
A full clearance sampling protocol as specified in Section 6 may be conducted. If the 
clearance sampling results demonstrate that concentrations of methamphetamine do not 
exceed the cleanup standards in Section 7 of this Part 1, the subject property is 
considered compliant with the clearance requirements of these regulations. If the 
clearance sampling fails to demonstrate that methamphetamine concentrations are below 
the specified cleanup standards, then the subject property must be decontaminated in 
accordance with the requirements of this Part 1. 
3.7 
Information collected during the screening level assessment shall be documented in a Screening 
Level Assessment Report and shall include, but not be limited to, the following, to the extent 
available and applicable: 
3.7.1 
Subject property description including physical address, number and type of structures 
present. 
3.7.2 
Description of structural features in all buildings comprising the subject property, such as 
attics, false ceilings, crawl spaces, and basements including identification of structural 
features connected to adjacent units or common areas. 
3.7.3 
Identification and documentation of common ventilation systems connected to other units 
or common areas. 
3.7.4 
Summary of observations made during inspections. 
3.7.5 
Photographic documentation of property conditions. 
3.7.6 
Documentation of screening level sampling shall include: 
3.7.6.1 a description of the sampling procedures used, including sample collection, 
handling, and quality assurance/quality control (QA/QC); 
3.7.6.2 documentation of the analytical methods used and laboratory QA/QC 
requirements, including the laboratory analytical report and chain-of-custody 
documentation; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
8 
3.7.6.3 results of sampling, including a description of sample locations and a computer 
generated figure illustrating the layout of the building(s) and sample locations and 
identification. Sample results shall be presented as reported by the analytical 
laboratory, and shall not be adjusted, changed, or manipulated in any way. 
Spiked samples submitted for analysis shall not be used for purposes of 
compliance with the regulation. 
3.7.7 
The Consultant shall provide an electronic copy of the Screening Level Assessment 
Report to the Department within thirty (30) days of receipt of laboratory results. 
4.0 
Preliminary Assessment. 
A preliminary assessment of all methamphetamine-affected properties shall be conducted in accordance 
with this section and Section 6.1.2 of these regulations, unless the property owner elects to demolish the 
property in lieu of assessment and decontamination pursuant to § 25-18.5-103(1)(a), C.R.S. No person 
other than a Consultant in good standing may perform preliminary assessments. However, a Consultant 
may use an assistant to take notes during the assessment. Information gained during the preliminary 
assessment shall be the basis for property decontamination and clearance sampling. Consultants and 
assistants shall use appropriate personal protective equipment during the preliminary assessment. The 
Consultant shall personally inspect the subject property to gather all of the information necessary to 
prepare a Preliminary Assessment Report (other than the legal description of the subject property and the 
background information described in Section 4.2), and shall document information collected through 
photographs, notes, and other appropriate methods. The Consultant shall evaluate the information 
collected during the preliminary assessment and record his or her observations and findings in a 
Preliminary Assessment Report. The Preliminary Assessment Report shall include, but not be limited to, 
the following, to the extent available and applicable: 
4.1 
Subject property description, including physical address, legal description, number and type of 
structures present, description of adjacent and/or surrounding properties, and any other 
observations made. 
4.2 
Summary of information from review of available law enforcement reports regarding the 
manufacturing method, chemicals present, cooking areas, chemical storage areas, and areas of 
contamination, or waste disposal. 
4.3 
Description of structural features in all buildings, such as attics, false ceilings, crawl spaces, and 
basements, including: 
4.3.1 
If the building has an attic, a description of the integrity of the building ceiling (i.e., attic 
floor), any signs of access, storage, manufacturing, or venting into the attic (e.g., holes 
cut in ceiling for the purpose of venting gases from a cook), and a description of 
observations of the ducting associated with all bathroom and kitchen exhaust vents. If 
preliminary assessment sampling is conducted, include the results of sampling in 
accordance with Section 6 of this Part 1. 
4.3.2 
A description of the integrity of the building floor, and if there is a crawl space, a 
description of any signs of access, storage, venting, or disposal related to 
methamphetamine manufacturing, integrity of any vapor barriers, and any signs of 
disposal onto the soil of the crawl space. The soil investigation shall be conducted in 
accordance with the assessment procedures in Section 6 of this Part 1. If the vapor 
barrier is intact and in good condition, and if there is no indication of chemical disposal, 
the soil beneath the vapor barrier may be presumed to meet the cleanup criteria, and no 
soil sampling is required.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
9 
4.4 
Description of outdoor areas, including notation of the following: 
4.4.1 
Factors limiting the inspection, such as snow cover or heavy vegetation. 
4.4.2 
Conditions indicative of contamination. 
4.5 
Identification of manufacturing methods based on the Consultant’s observations and law 
enforcement reports, if available. 
4.6 
Identification of chemicals used, based on the Consultant’s observations and knowledge of 
manufacturing method(s), and if available, identification and documentation of any 
methamphetamine lab wastes or precursor chemicals discovered at the subject property. 
4.7 
Identification and documentation of areas of contamination. This identification may be based on 
visual observation, law enforcement reports, proximity to chemical storage areas, waste disposal 
areas, cooking areas, use areas, or the professional judgment of the Consultant. In the case of 
single-family dwellings, all rooms, attics, crawl spaces, and forced air ventilation systems of all 
buildings on the subject property must be assumed to be contaminated above the cleanup 
standards of Section 7, unless sampling conducted in accordance with the clearance level 
sampling protocols of Section 6 demonstrates the absence of such contamination in a given 
room, attic, crawl space, or ventilation system. The Consultant may determine that assessment 
level sampling is appropriate to verify the presence of contamination in a given room to assist in 
selecting an appropriate decontamination strategy. If the Consultant determines that assessment 
sampling is appropriate, such sample collection and analysis shall be conducted in accordance 
with the assessment level sampling protocols and other requirements of Section 6 of this Part 1. 
4.8 
Identification and documentation of chemical storage areas, waste disposal areas, cooking areas, 
and/or use areas, if known. 
4.9 
Identification and documentation of signs of contamination such as staining, etching, or fire 
damage. 
4.10 
Description of plumbing system, including identification and documentation of potential disposal 
into the sanitary sewer or an on-site wastewater treatment system (OWTS). If an OWTS is 
present, include a description of the results of field screening of the OWTS in accordance with 
Section 6 of this Part 1. If the Consultant determines that sampling of an OWTS is necessary to 
determine if methamphetamine lab wastes have been disposed of into an OWTS, include the 
results of sample collection and analysis conducted in accordance with Section 6 of this Part 1. 
4.11 
For properties with multi-unit buildings, identification and documentation of other units and 
common areas where contamination may have spread or been tracked. 
4.11.1 If contamination above the standard is identified in any unit in a multi-unit structure with 
shared attics (i.e., open space with no fire walls), the shared attic spaces shall be 
investigated to determine whether they are also contaminated. If access is not available 
to inspect or sample shared attic spaces, the owner of the contaminated unit or their 
representative shall give notice to the owner(s) of the shared attics and the owners and 
tenants of the units that are immediately below the shared attic spaces that 
methamphetamine contamination may be present. Notice shall also be given to the 
homeowners’ association (HOA), if one has been established. The consultant shall 
document any limitations on access in the final report.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
10 
4.11.2 If a multi-unit structure has connected crawl spaces, the crawl spaces shall be 
investigated to determine whether the connected crawl spaces are also contaminated. If 
access is not available to inspect or sample connected crawl spaces, the owner of the 
methamphetamine-affected property or their representative shall give notice to the 
owner(s) of the connected crawl spaces and the owners and tenants of the units that are 
immediately above the connected crawl spaces that methamphetamine contamination 
may be present. Notice shall also be given to the HOA, if one has been established. Any 
limitation on access shall be documented in the final report. 
4.12 
For properties with multi-unit buildings, identification and documentation of any common 
ventilation systems connected to other units or common areas. If contamination above the 
standard is identified in any unit in a multi-unit building, the units and common areas that are 
connected to the unit by ventilation systems shall be investigated to determine whether they are 
also contaminated. If access is not available to inspect or sample the connected units or common 
spaces, the owner of the contaminated unit or their representative shall give notice to the owners 
and tenants of the units and common areas that are connected to the contaminated unit that 
methamphetamine contamination may be present. Notice shall also be given to the HOA, if one 
has been established. The consultant shall document any limitations on access in the final report. 
4.13 
Identification of surfaces that are known or suspected to have been painted or sealed after the 
cessation of contamination-causing activities (painted-over surfaces). 
4.14 
Photographic documentation of property conditions, including cooking areas, chemical storage 
areas, waste disposal areas, and areas of obvious contamination. 
4.15 
If assessment sampling is conducted, it shall be conducted in accordance with Section 6 of this 
Part 1. Documentation of assessment sampling shall include: 
4.15.1 a description of the sampling procedures used, including sample collection, handling, and 
QA/QC; 
4.15.2 documentation of the analytical methods used and laboratory QA/QC requirements, 
including the laboratory analytical report and chain-of-custody documentation; and 
4.15.3 results of sampling, including a description of sample locations and a computer 
generated figure illustrating the layout of the building(s) and sample locations and 
identification. Sample results shall be presented as reported by the analytical laboratory, 
and shall not be adjusted, changed, or manipulated in any way. Spiked samples 
submitted for analysis shall not be used for purposes of compliance with these 
regulations. 
4.16 
Documentation of personal property assessment and discussion of items that require 
decontamination or disposal, and items that can be released to the owner because the 
Consultant has determined, in accordance with Section 5.11.1.4 of this Part 1, that they are not 
contaminated. 
4.17 
If clearance sampling is conducted during the preliminary assessment, it shall be conducted in 
accordance with Section 6 of this Part 1. Documentation of clearance sampling shall include: 
4.17.1 A description of the sampling procedures used, including sample collection, handling, and 
QA/QC. 
4.17.2 Documentation of the analytical methods used and laboratory QA/QC documentation, 
including the laboratory analytical report and chain-of-custody documentation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
11 
4.17.3 Results of clearance sampling, including a description of sample locations and a 
computer generated figure with sample locations and identification, and a copy of each 
laboratory report of sample results. Sample results shall be presented as reported by the 
analytical laboratory, and shall not be adjusted, changed, or manipulated in any way. 
Spiked samples submitted for analysis shall not be used for purposes of compliance with 
the regulation. 
4.17.4 Documentation of variations from standard practices. 
4.17.5 A certification statement, signed by the Consultant, in substantially the following form: 
“I hereby certify that I conducted clearance sampling of the subject property in 
accordance with 6 CCR 1014-3, Part 1, § 6. I further certify that the cleanup standards 
established by 6 CCR 1014-3, Part 1, § 7 [choose one: have/have not] been met as 
evidenced by testing I conducted.” 
4.18 
Evidence of Consultant certification under Part 2 of these regulations. 
4.19 
A certification statement, signed by the Consultant, in the following form: 
“I hereby certify that I conducted a preliminary assessment of the subject property in accordance 
with 6 CCR 1014-3, Part 1, § 4.” 
4.20 
The Consultant shall provide an electronic copy of the Preliminary Assessment Report to the 
Department within thirty (30) days of completing the report. If clearance sampling is conducted 
during the preliminary assessment, the owner must provide a copy of the Preliminary Assessment 
Report to the governing body as defined in § 25-18.5-101(7), C.R.S. to obtain the immunity 
provided in § 25-18.5-103(2), C.R.S. 
5.0 
Decontamination and Removal Procedures. 
No person other than a Contractor in good standing may conduct decontamination or removal of 
contaminated materials. Decontamination and removal must be overseen at all times by a 
Decontamination Supervisor. Decontamination Supervisors, Decontamination Workers, and Ventilation 
Contractors shall use appropriate personal protective equipment during decontamination activities. The 
property owner, in consultation with the Contractor, may choose to have the Contractor remove and 
properly dispose of materials at a solid waste landfill, in accordance with Section 5.13 of this Part 1, in 
lieu of decontaminating them. The Contractor shall conduct decontamination to reduce the concentration 
of all contaminants on the subject property to or below the levels specified in Section 7.0 of this Part 1. 
Decontamination shall employ techniques that result in the physical removal of contamination. The use of 
decontamination products, including, but not limited to, corrosives and caustic agents that chemically treat 
or alter contaminants, rather than physically remove the contaminants, is prohibited. The Contractor shall 
conduct decontamination in accordance with procedures designed to protect workers, future occupants, 
neighbors and the general public, including, but not limited to, the following: 
5.1 
In multi-unit buildings and buildings with common access hallways, install a negative air unit 
equipped with a HEPA filtration system and operate it throughout the decontamination process to 
minimize dispersal of airborne particulates caused by decontamination. 
5.2 
If there is visible dust present, vacuum the entire area using a HEPA vacuum. 
5.3 
Wash and rinse all surfaces that are (or are reasonably expected to be) contaminated. The 
Contractor shall use detergent water solution for washing and potable water for rinsing.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
12 
5.4 
All contaminated material that will not or cannot be decontaminated to cleanup standards 
specified in Section 7.0 of this Part 1 shall be removed and disposed of properly. If clearance 
sampling cannot demonstrate that cleanup standards have been met, the material must either be 
re-cleaned until cleanup standards are met or the material must be removed and disposed of 
properly. 
5.5 
Encapsulation of surfaces may only be conducted after clearance sampling has demonstrated 
that cleanup standards have been achieved, as specified in Section 7.0 of this Part 1, and as may 
be required by the governing body as defined in § 25-18.5-101(7), C.R.S. 
5.5.1 
Painted-over surfaces (as defined in Section 2 of this Part 1) that, following 
decontamination, fall in between the cleanup standards of Sections 7.1 and 7.1.2 of this 
Part 1 shall be encapsulated or removed. Encapsulation shall be performed by applying a 
coat of oil-based paint using a spray-on method of application.  Painted-over surfaces 
that have been decontaminated and are below the cleanup standard of Section 7.1 of this 
Part 1 do not have to be encapsulated. 
5.6 
Ventilation systems shall be decontaminated or removed by a Ventilation Contractor, 
Decontamination Worker, or Decontamination Supervisor who is trained, certified, and equipped 
to comply with the following protocol for ventilation system decontamination: 
5.6.1 
Decontamination of the ventilation system shall either take place after an initial gross 
decontamination of the structure or after complete decontamination of the structure. 
5.6.2 
At a minimum, the Ventilation Contractor, Decontamination Worker, or Decontamination 
Supervisor shall perform the following actions, or an alternative decontamination 
procedure that has been approved by the Department, pursuant to Section 10 of this Part 
1: 
5.6.2.1 Perform a walk-through of the structure prior to initiation of the project to 
establish a specific plan for decontamination of the ventilation system, and to 
identify components that will be removed. 
5.6.2.2 Except as provided in 5.6.2.8, remove and dispose of all porous components, 
flexible ducting, glass-lined ducting, and any ducting that has been damaged or 
compromised. 
5.6.2.3 Place protective coverings in areas where work is being performed, including 
plastic or drop cloths around each area where the duct is penetrated. Utilize 
controlled containment practices to ensure that debris is not dispersed outside 
the air conveyance system during cleaning. 
5.6.2.4 Perform a visual inspection of plenums, interior ductwork surfaces, and internal 
components. Inspect all points where lateral lines are attached at the boot (vent) 
and trunk line in attics and crawl spaces for sufficient integrity to successfully 
create negative pressure. Seal or remove breaches as necessary to maintain 
pressure. 
5.6.2.5 Place critical barriers over any hole where ducting has been removed 
immediately upon removal to prevent cross contamination and/ or migration of 
contamination. 
5.6.2.6 Shut off and lock out all air handler units before working on each air conveyance 
system.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
13 
5.6.2.7 Remove and clean or dispose of all return air grills, registers and miscellaneous 
non-porous components. 
5.6.2.8 If structural components such as wall cavities are used as duct runs 
decontaminate the duct run or install a new duct run. 
5.6.2.9 Remove any large debris that has accumulated inside the system and HEPA 
vacuum the inside of ducting from each vent. 
5.6.2.10 
Draw a negative pressure on the entire ductwork, using HEPA-
exhausted vacuum filters, throughout the cleaning process. Establish an 
appropriate pressure to ensure removal of all loose debris. Commence 
vacuuming at the furthest vent from the heating and/or cooling unit, and proceed 
toward the unit. 
5.6.2.11 
Clean the ventilation system, including the outside air intake, supply 
ductwork, and return air plenums, using pneumatic or electrical agitators to 
agitate debris into an airborne state. Additional equipment may be also be used 
in the cleaning process, such as brushes, air lances, and air nozzles. 
5.6.2.12 
Open and inspect air handling units and clean all components in the air 
pathway. 
5.6.2.13 
After decontamination of the system, take photographs as necessary to 
document that the system has been cleaned and is free of debris. Install 
new/clean critical barriers at each access point, and leave in place until the 
cleanup standards in Section 7.0 of this Part 1 are achieved throughout the 
subject property. 
5.6.2.14 
Bag and label all debris and other items removed from the ventilation 
system, including any filters, and properly dispose of at a solid waste landfill, in 
accordance with Section 5.12 of this Part 1. 
5.6.2.15 
Decontaminate or package for proper disposal all equipment used in the 
cleaning of the ventilation system before removing from the property. 
5.6.3 
The introduction of any materials or chemicals into a central heat system that are not 
approved by the EPA on the product label for that specific use is prohibited. The use of 
oxidizers or corrosives is also prohibited. EPA approved sealers shall not be used until 
after clearance sampling indicates the cleanup standard has been met in the ventilation 
system. 
5.6.4 
Other heating systems, such as electric in-wall heaters, gas wall heaters, and baseboard 
heaters, shall be thoroughly decontaminated or removed and disposed of properly. 
5.7 
Attics determined to be contaminated above the cleanup standard for limited exposure areas, as 
specified in Section 7.1.1 of this Part 1, shall either have contaminated materials and surfaces 
removed or decontaminated. If the property owner chooses to decontaminate the attic, the 
Contractor shall use the following procedure, at a minimum: 
5.7.1 
Remove all insulation and debris in the attic, and remove all ducting associated with 
bathroom and kitchen exhaust vents.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
14 
5.7.2 
Establish critical barriers on the lower side (ceiling side) of the vent openings. All critical 
barriers must be maintained in good condition until the entire structure has been 
decontaminated to meet cleanup criteria. 
5.7.3 
Thoroughly HEPA vacuum the attic. 
5.7.4 
Decontaminate attic surfaces using a detergent water wash followed by rinsing. Control 
and contain excess decontamination liquids in a manner that will prevent the build-up of 
free liquids or cause damage to building materials. 
5.7.5 
Following decontamination, the Consultant shall sample the attic area in accordance with 
the clearance sampling requirements of Section 6 of this Part 1 to determine if the 
residual contamination levels exceed the cleanup standard for limited exposure areas. 
5.7.6 
If the clearance sampling indicates the area is still above the cleanup standard, the 
Contractor shall either conduct additional decontamination as provided above, or remove 
the contaminated material. If additional decontamination is conducted, the Consultant 
shall repeat clearance sampling. Decontamination is not complete until contaminated 
materials have either been removed or decontaminated to meet the standard. 
5.8 
Crawl spaces determined to be contaminated above the cleanup standard for limited exposure 
areas, as specified in Section 7.1.1 of this Part 1, shall be decontaminated using the following 
procedure, at a minimum: 
5.8.1 
Remove all insulation and debris. 
5.8.2 
Remove existing vapor barrier, if present, using dust control measures to prevent cross 
contamination. 
5.8.3 
If no vapor barrier is present, or following removal of an existing vapor barrier, install a 
layer of 6 mil polyethylene sheeting or equivalent during decontamination to capture 
decontamination fluids. Excess decontamination liquids shall be collected, containerized 
and disposed of in accordance with Section 5.12.3 of this Part 1. The polyethylene 
sheeting shall be removed and disposed of after the decontamination process is 
complete. 
5.8.4 
If the ducting for the central heat system is removed, install critical barriers on the upper 
side (floor side) of the vent holes. All critical barriers shall be maintained in good 
condition until the entire structure has been decontaminated and meets cleanup criteria. 
5.8.5 
HEPA vacuum all surfaces except for dirt floors. 
5.8.6 
Decontaminate all surfaces, other than dirt floors, using a detergent water wash followed 
by rinsing. 
5.8.7 
If it is determined that chemicals have been disposed of onto the dirt floor, remove all 
contaminated soil and dispose of offsite, in accordance with Section 5.12 of this Part 1. 
The extent of soil removal shall be based on the visual observations and field screening 
in accordance with Section 6 of this Part 1. 
5.8.8 
After completing steps 1 through 7, sample surfaces, other than dirt floors, in accordance 
with the clearance sampling requirements of Section 6 of this Part 1 to determine if 
contaminant concentrations exceed the cleanup standard.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
15 
5.8.9 
If the clearance sampling indicates the area is above the cleanup standard, conduct 
additional decontamination. Decontamination is not complete until contaminated material 
is removed or clearance sampling indicates the cleanup standard has been met. 
5.8.10 If the vapor barrier was removed, a new barrier shall be installed above the dirt floor 
unless determined by the Consultant, in consultation with the owner, to be unnecessary. 
5.8.11 If there was no vapor barrier, but the crawlspace was contaminated above the cleanup 
standard, remove the top 2 inches of dirt and dispose of in a solid waste landfill. 
5.9 
Flush plumbing systems connected to the sanitary sewer with potable water to eliminate any 
residual chemicals. 
5.10 
If assessment sampling demonstrated that methamphetamine lab wastes have been disposed of 
into an OWTS, pump the system and characterize and dispose of the wastes in accordance with 
Sections 5.12, and 6.6.4 of this Part 1. 
5.11 
Personal Property 
5.11.1 Personal property must either be: 
5.11.1.1 
decontaminated to the cleanup standards specified in Section 7.0 of this 
Part 1, as demonstrated through clearance sampling of the personal property; 
5.11.1.2 
decontaminated as provided in Sections 5.11.2 and 5.11.3; 
5.11.1.3 
properly disposed of in accordance with Section 5.12 of this Part 1; or 
5.11.1.4 
determined not to be contaminated as follows: 
5.11.1.4.1 
the personal property in question, or other personal property of 
similar material (non-porous, porous other than textiles/fabrics, and 
textiles/fabrics) and located in the same room, was sampled in 
accordance with the clearance level sampling protocols and other 
requirements of Section 6 of this Part 1, and determined to be below the 
cleanup standards specified in Section 7.0 of this Part 1; or 
5.11.1.4.2 
the personal property in question was located in a room that was 
determined to be below the cleanup standards specified in Section 7.0 of 
this Part 1 after being sampled in accordance with the clearance level 
sampling protocols and other requirements of Section 6 of this Part 1; 
and in the Consultant’s judgment, the item is unlikely to have been 
contaminated from exposure elsewhere in the subject property, given the 
nature of the item, the time the item was introduced to the subject 
property (if known), and any other relevant factors or information.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
16 
5.11.2 Hard non-porous household goods (including ceramics, hard plastics, electronics, metals, 
and glass) that show no signs of having been used during the methamphetamine cooking 
process (e.g., are not etched, stained, or emitting odors) may be decontaminated by 
washing them at least twice using a detergent-water solution and rinsing after each 
washing with potable water. Only the exterior of electronic goods such as televisions, 
computers, or home audio and video equipment, must be washed unless such items are 
being recycled, in which case they must be dunk-washed in accordance with Section 
5.12.2. Eligible items decontaminated pursuant to this section do not require clearance 
sampling. As used in this section, the term “household goods” excludes major appliances 
such as ranges, cooktops, ovens, microwaves, and refrigerators. 
5.11.3 Clothing and linens that are not obviously contaminated may be decontaminated by being 
laundered on-site in accordance with the following conditions: 
5.11.3.1 
clothing and linens must be handled in a manner that prevents cross-
contamination of uncontaminated areas and items; 
5.11.3.2 
clothing and linens must be washed at least three consecutive times with 
detergent using a standard washing machine, without being dried in between 
washes. 
5.11.3.3 
Clothing and linens that are decontaminated in accordance with this 
Section 5.11.3 do not require clearance sampling. 
5.12 
Waste management shall be conducted in accordance with the Colorado Hazardous Waste 
Regulations (6 CCR 1007-3) and the Colorado Solid Waste Regulations (6 CCR 1007-2). 
5.12.1 Non-hazardous debris and contaminated material generated during decontamination of 
methamphetamine-affected properties shall be managed as solid waste. 
5.12.2 Electronic devices that are banned from disposal under § 25-15-303, C.R.S. shall be 
recycled in accordance with the Colorado Solid Waste Regulations (6 CCR 1007-2). If the 
device to be recycled was stored in a room that is determined to be contaminated, the 
device shall be dunk-washed at least 3 times, or dismantled and HEPA vacuumed, prior 
to being recycled. 
5.12.3 Wash water shall be containerized for offsite disposal, or may be disposed of to the 
sanitary sewer with prior approval from the POTW. A pH test shall be conducted to 
determine if neutralization of the wash water is necessary prior to disposal. 
5.12.4 Wastes removed from OWTSs shall be disposed of as either solid or hazardous waste 
based on results of laboratory analysis as described in Section 6 of this Part 1. 
5.12.5 Methamphetamine lab wastes and precursor chemicals discovered at the subject 
property shall be disposed of as either solid or hazardous waste based on results of 
laboratory analysis as required by 6 CCR 1007-3, Part 261. 
5.13. 
Any demolition of all or part of a structure shall be conducted in accordance with all local, State 
and Federal requirements. All material from demolition or removal shall be disposed of in a solid 
waste landfill.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
17 
5.14 
If sampling provides evidence that hazardous waste has been disposed of in the OWTS, an 
investigation of potential environmental contamination shall be conducted. The investigation and 
cleanup of soil, surface water and groundwater contamination resulting from disposal of 
methamphetamine lab wastes into an OWTS shall be conducted under an approved plan in 
accordance with either the Colorado Hazardous Waste Regulations (6 CCR 1007-3), or the 
Colorado Solid Waste Regulations (6 CCR 1007-2), as appropriate based on sampling results, 
and with Water Quality Control Commission Regulations 31 and 41 (5 CCR 1002-31 and 5 CCR 
1002-41). Specific investigation requirements shall be determined through consultation with the 
Department’s Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division. Guidance on soil and 
groundwater investigations can be found in the Department of Public Health and Environment, 
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division (May 2002), Corrective Action Guidance 
Document and the EPA Environmental Investigations Standard Operating Procedures and 
Quality Assurance (EISOPQA) Manual (November 2001). 
5.15 
The investigation and cleanup of soil, surface water and groundwater contamination shall be 
conducted in accordance with either the Colorado Hazardous Waste Regulations or the Colorado 
Solid Waste Regulations, as appropriate based on sampling results, and in accordance with 
Water Quality Control Commission Regulations 31 and 41 (5 CCR 1002-31 and 5 CCR 1002-41). 
Occurrences of outdoor contamination shall be reported to the Department within 72 hours of 
discovery. 
6.0 
Sampling and Analytical Procedures. 
6.1 
General Requirements 
6.1.1 
No person other than a Consultant in good standing may conduct sampling under these 
regulations. 
6.1.2 
To prevent any real or potential conflicts of interest, a Consultant who is retained to 
conduct a screening level assessment, preliminary assessment, or clearance sampling at 
a given subject property must be independent of the Contractor who is retained to 
decontaminate the subject property. 
6.1.3 
The following sample collection procedures shall be followed for screening level 
sampling, preliminary assessment sampling and clearance sampling, except as provided 
in Section 6.8.2 of this Part 1. 
6.1.3.1 Wipe sampling shall be used to determine the extent of methamphetamine 
contamination on all surfaces at all methamphetamine-affected properties, and at 
all properties that are undergoing a screening level assessment. 
6.1.3.2. Wipe sampling shall be used to determine the extent of lead contamination on all 
surfaces at properties whenever the preliminary assessment indicates the 
phenyl-2-propanone (P2P) method of methamphetamine manufacture was used 
on the property. 
6.1.3.3 Wipe sampling shall be used to determine the extent of iodine contamination 
whenever there is visible evidence of iodine staining on surfaces that will not be 
removed. 
6.1.3.4 Vacuum sampling may, at the Consultant’s discretion, be used instead of wipe 
sampling to determine the extent of methamphetamine, iodine or lead 
contamination on fabrics or textiles only.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
18 
6.1.3.5 Vapor sampling shall be used to determine the extent of mercury contamination 
whenever the preliminary assessment indicates the P2P method of 
methamphetamine manufacture was used on the property. 
6.2 
Discrete Wipe Sample Collection Procedures. The following procedure shall be used for 
collecting discrete wipe samples: 
6.2.1 
Sample media shall consist of 2x2 inch wipes made of one of the following: 
6.2.1.1 Cotton gauze material.  
6.2.1.2 4-ply non-woven cotton/polyester blend. 
6.2.1.3 Tightly knitted continuous filament polyester. 
6.2.2 
Delineate a 100 cm² area on the surface to be sampled, either by attaching a physical 
template to the surface (being careful not to touch the area within the template), or by an 
equivalently reliable and accurate method. The area within the template (i.e., the sample 
area) shall be 100 cm2. Physical templates may not be re-used. 
6.2.3 
Prepare a rough sketch of the area(s) to be sampled and indicate sample location(s). 
6.2.4 
Wet the sample media with isopropanol to enhance collection efficiency. 
6.2.5 
Use a new set of clean, non-powdered impervious gloves for each sample to avoid 
contamination of the sample media by previous samples and to prevent contact with the 
substance. 
6.2.6 
Press the sample media down firmly, but not excessively, with the fingers, being careful 
not to touch the sample surface with the thumb. Blot rough surfaces uniformly instead of 
wiping. Wipe smooth surfaces as described in the next section below. 
6.2.7 
Wipe the surface using one of the following methods: 
6.2.7.1 Square method: Start at the outside edge and progress toward the center of the 
surface area by wiping in concentric squares of decreasing size. 
6.2.7.2 “S” method: Wipe horizontally from side-to-side in an overlapping “S”-like pattern 
as necessary to completely cover the entire wipe area. 
6.2.8 
Without allowing the sample media to come into contact with any other surface, fold the 
sample media with the sampled side in. 
6.2.9 
Use the same sample media to repeat the sampling of the same area using the same 
method. If using the “S” method, the second pass shall be sampled by wiping with 
overlapping “S”-like motions in a top-to-bottom direction. 
6.2.10 Fold sampled side in. Using the same sample media, sample the same area a third time. 
The third pass shall be sampled by wiping using the method not previously used (i.e., use 
the square method if the “S” method was originally used).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
19 
6.2.11 Fold the sample media over again so that the sampled side is folded in. Place the sample 
media in a sample container, cap and number it, and note the number at the sample 
location on the sketch. Remove and discard impervious gloves. Include notes with the 
sketch giving any further description of the sample, including sample name and time of 
collection. Photograph each sample location. 
6.2.12 Submit at least one field blank, prepared and handled in the same fashion but without 
wiping, for every 10 samples collected, according to the following: 
6.2.12.1 
To collect a field blank, remove a wipe from the wrapper with a new 
glove, shake the wipe open, refold in the same manner as during the sampling 
procedure, and then insert the wipe into the sample container. 
6.2.12.2 
Repeat this procedure for multiple aliquots when collecting a composite 
field blank. 
6.2.12.3 
For projects with fewer than 10 samples collected, the last sample 
collected shall be the field blank. 
6.2.12.4 
For projects with greater than 10 samples collected, sample 11 shall be a 
field blank, every 10th subsequent sample shall be a field blank, and the last 
sample of any sample group with fewer than 10 samples shall be a field blank. 
6.2.12.5 
Field blanks shall be representative of the majority of samples collected 
for every sample group (i.e., discrete or composite). 
6.2.13 Follow sample handling procedures as specified by the analytical method listed in 
Section 6.12 of this Part 1. 
6.2.14 Maintain a Chain-of-Custody Record covering the time of sample collection through final 
disposition. Document sample(s) collected from a single methamphetamine-affected 
property on one Chain-of-Custody Record. Every transfer of custody shall be noted and 
signed for and a copy of the record shall be kept by each individual who has signed it. 
Samples shall be sealed, labeled, and secured. All samples collected shall be 
transported directly to the laboratory. Shipping samples overnight is considered direct 
transport, and the shipping label shall be considered part of the Chain-of-Custody 
Record. Retain all sample documents for the project record and include them in the 
project reports. At a minimum, the Chain-of-Custody Record shall include the following: 
6.2.14.2 
subject property address; 
6.2.14.3 
sampler name and contact information; 
6.2.14.4 
sample identification number; 
6.2.14.5 
sample area; 
6.2.14.6 
number of sample aliquots; 
6.2.14.7 
number of containers for each sample; 
6.2.14.8 
sample collection time and date; 
6.2.14.9 
sample matrix;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
20 
6.2.14.10 
requested analysis; 
6.2.14.11 
sample preservatives, if applicable; and 
6.2.14.12 
signature and date for each person relinquishing or receiving sample 
custody. 
6.2.15 Painted-over surfaces. Estimate the concentration of methamphetamine present below a 
painted-over surface (as defined in Section 2 of this Part 1) by one of the following 
methods: 
6.2.15.2 
collect wipe samples from similar surfaces within the same room that 
were not painted after contamination was introduced, or 
6.2.15.3 
sample the painted over surface as set forth in 6.2.1 – 6.2.14, but use 
methanol instead of isopropanol as the wetting agent for the sampling media to 
acquire a representative sample from beneath the painted-over surface. 
6.3 
Composite Wipe Sample Collection Procedures. When collecting composite samples, use the 
procedure outlined in Section 6.2 above for discrete samples for the collection of each aliquot 
comprising the composite sample, with the following exceptions: 
6.3.1 
A single pair of gloves may be used to collect each aliquot that will be part of a single 
composite sample. Use a new pair of gloves for each set of composite samples. 
6.3.2 
Use a separate piece of sample media for each aliquot. 
6.3.3 
Place the sample media from all individual aliquots that make up a composite sample in 
one sample container. 
6.3.4 
Combine no more than 4 aliquots in a single composite sample. 
6.3.5 
All aliquots in a single composite sample collected from personal property must be 
collected from similar material (non-porous, porous other than textiles/fabrics, and 
textiles/fabrics). 
6.3.6 
Collect all individual aliquots from 100 cm2 sampling areas. 
6.4 
Vacuum Sample collection procedures. At the Consultant’s discretion, vacuum sampling may be 
used to determine the extent of contamination on fabrics and textiles, including carpeting, 
drapery, upholstery, clothing, and other fabric goods. Vacuum samples shall be collected in 
accordance with procedures for sample collection described in Section 9 of the ASTM 
International Method D5756-02, Standard Test Method for Microvacuum Sampling and Indirect 
Analysis of Dust by Transmission Electron Microscopy for Asbestos Mass Concentration as 
incorporated in Section 9 of this Part 1. 
6.5 
Vapor Sample collection procedures. If the preliminary assessment indicates the phenyl-2-
propanone (P2P) method of methamphetamine manufacturing was used, vapor samples for 
mercury shall be collected in accordance with the procedures for sample collection described in 
NIOSH Method 6009 as incorporated in Section 9 of this Part 1. 
6.6 
OWTS Sampling. If the subject property has an OWTS, the Consultant shall conduct field 
screening, and if necessary sample collection from the OWTS to confirm or deny the presence of 
methamphetamine lab waste, and to ensure proper disposal of any methamphetamine lab waste 
identified.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
21 
6.6.1 
Field Screening. Field screening of septic tanks shall be conducted if there is evidence 
that methamphetamine lab wastes may have been disposed of into an OWTS. Evidence 
of methamphetamine lab wastes disposal into an OWTS includes, but is not limited to, 
the following: 
6.6.1.1  
witness statements; 
6.6.1.2  
stained or etched sinks, bathtubs, toilets; 
6.6.1.3  
chemical odors coming from the OWTS plumbing or tank; 
6.6.1.4  
visual observations of unusual conditions within the septic tank (“dead 
tank”); or 
6.6.1.5  
stressed or dead vegetation in a drain field. 
6.6.2 
Initial field screening shall consist of the following: 
6.6.2.1 Monitoring the septic tank for volatile organic compounds (VOCs) using a photo 
ionization detector (PID), flame ionization detector (FID), or other instrument 
capable of measuring VOCs with a demonstrated accuracy of plus or minus 25%. 
6.6.2.2 Testing the pH of liquid in the septic tank using pH paper or a pH meter. 
6.6.2.3 Additional field screening may be conducted, at the discretion of the Consultant, 
to further investigate the possible presence of methamphetamine lab waste. 
6.6.3 
Sample Collection. If field screening indicates that the OWTS has not been impacted by 
methamphetamine lab wastes, the Consultant may, at his or her discretion, presume the 
OWTS to be uncontaminated, and no further sampling is required. If field screening 
indicates that the OWTS has been impacted by methamphetamine lab wastes, the 
Consultant shall collect samples from the septic tank to determine if the liquids in the tank 
contain a hazardous waste. Samples shall be collected according to the requirements of 
the analytical method being used and the following protocol: 
6.6.3.1 Prior to sampling, determine whether the tank consists of one or two chambers 
through records review, visual inspection of the tank or by sufficiently excavating 
the septic tank. 
6.6.3.2 Samples from single chamber tanks shall be collected from the baffle on the 
outlet end of the tank. 
6.6.3.3 Samples from dual chamber tanks shall be collected from the baffle on the outlet 
end of chamber one. 
6.6.3.4 Samples must be representative of the wastes found in the septic tank. Sampling 
procedures may include the use of drum thieves, sludge judges or equivalent 
equipment. The instructions for the correct usage of the sampling device shall be 
followed. 
6.6.3.5 Remove access cover from the first (or only) chamber and locate outlet baffle. 
6.6.3.6 Move any floating surface matter away from the insertion point of the sampling 
device. Do not collect any matter in the sampling device.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
22 
6.6.3.7 Insert the sampling device into the tank, lowering it until it hits the bottom. 
6.6.3.8 Trap the sample inside the sampling device. 
6.6.3.9 Remove the sampling device and fill the laboratory supplied sample containers. 
The specific volume and type of sample container will be determined based on 
the type of analysis desired. For VOC analysis, two 40ml vials shall be filled, 
leaving no headspace. 
6.6.3.10 
Replace access cover at the completion of sample collection. 
6.6.3.11 
Samples may be collected in laboratory preserved bottles, or in 
unpreserved bottles. If the samples are collected in unpreserved bottles, the 
laboratory must be notified that the samples are unpreserved. 
6.6.3.12 
Place sample containers in a cooler with enough ice or ice packs to 
maintain a temperature of 4° C. 
6.6.3.13 
Maintain a Chain-of-Custody Record from the time of sample collection 
until final disposition. Every transfer of custody shall be noted and signed for and 
a copy of the record shall be kept by each individual who has signed it. Samples 
shall be sealed, labeled, and secured. All samples collected shall be transported 
directly to the laboratory. Shipping samples overnight is considered direct 
transport, and the shipping label shall be considered part of the Chain-of-Custody 
Record. All sample documents shall be retained for the project record and 
included in project reports. 
6.6.4 
Waste Characterization. The contents of septic tanks that contain waste from 
methamphetamine labs are solid wastes. Prior to disposal, a hazardous waste 
determination must be made in accordance with 6 CCR 1007-3 Section 261.20 through 
261.24. The following analyses, as incorporated in Section 9 of this Part 1, shall be 
conducted to determine if an OWTS has been impacted by methamphetamine lab 
wastes, and if the septic tank contains a characteristic hazardous waste: 
6.6.4.1  
VOCs using Method 8260B in “Test Methods for the Evaluation of Solid 
Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods,” EPA Publication SW-846. 
6.6.4.2 Ignitability/flash point by a Pensky-Martens Closed Cup Tester, using the test 
method specified in ASTM Standard D-93-79 or D-93-80 (or Method 1010A in 
EPA SW-846), or Setaflash Closed Cup Tester, using the test method specified 
in ASTM standard D-3278-78 (or Method 1020B in EPA SW-846). 
6.6.4.3 Corrosivity as determined by Method 9040C or Method 1110A in EPA Publication 
SW-846. 
6.6.4.4 Reactivity using Method 9014 and Method 9034 in EPA Publication SW-846. 
6.7 
Screening level sampling protocols for buildings. 
6.7.1 
For screening assessments performed in connection with a proposed transaction for the 
purchase of a single-family dwelling, or the purchase of a single unit of a multi-unit 
building (e.g., a condominium):

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
23 
6.7.1.1 a minimum of two (2) 4-aliquot composite samples must be collected, with at 
least one aliquot being collected from each room. At least one composite sample 
must include an aliquot from the cold air return of a heating system, if it is a 
forced air system. 
6.7.1.2 All exhaust fans (including, but not limited to, kitchen, bathrooms, attic vent fans, 
or whole house exhaust fans) must also be sampled. Exhaust fan samples shall 
be collected from inside the fan compartment, the fan blade, or the back side of 
the fan grill. A separate surface sample does not need to be collected from any 
room from which a fan or ventilation system sample is collected. 
6.7.1.3 For single family dwellings, at least one aliquot must be taken from each room of 
all outbuildings. 
6.7.1.4 In the case of single family dwellings, if there are any additional dwellings on the 
subject property (such as a living space over a garage, mother-in-law apartment, 
etc.), the additional dwelling(s) shall be sampled as provided in Sections 6.7.1.1 
and 6.7.1.2 of this Part 1. 
6.7.2 
For screening assessments performed in connection with a proposed transaction for the 
purchase of a multi-unit building where no units exhibit signs of being an illegal drug 
laboratory, at least ten (10) percent of such units shall be evaluated through the collection 
of at least one 4-aliquot composite sample per unit, with at least one aliquot being drawn 
from each room in the unit. At least one composite sample must include an aliquot from 
the cold air return of a heating system, if it is a forced air system. All exhaust fans in 
sampled units must also be sampled. 
6.7.2.1 Collect at least one aliquot per room of each outbuilding. 
6.7.3 
Samples collected by the seller’s Consultant, for the purpose of disputing samples 
collected by the buyer’s Consultant, shall not be collected from the exact location as the 
previous sample. Alternate sample locations, determined by the Consultant to be 
representative, shall be used if there is no surface area remaining in the original sample 
location that has not already been sampled. 
6.8 
Assessment level sampling protocols for buildings and personal property. 
6.8.1 
Except as provided in Section 6.8.2 below, the Consultant shall conduct sampling for 
methamphetamine that meets the clearance level sampling protocols of Section 6.9 in all 
rooms of a methamphetamine-affected property as part of the preliminary assessment. 
6.8.2 
The Consultant may determine that some (or all) rooms, attics, crawls spaces, and forced 
air ventilation systems should be deemed to be contaminated based on data other than 
assessment sampling. Personal property located in rooms that are deemed to be 
contaminated is also deemed to be contaminated. Rooms that are deemed to be 
contaminated do not need to be sampled as part of the preliminary assessment, nor do 
their contents. However, the Consultant may choose to conduct additional sampling of 
those rooms or their contents to inform decontamination decisions.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
24 
6.9 
Clearance level sampling protocols for buildings and personal property. The Consultant shall 
conduct clearance level sampling of any subject property that meets the definition of a 
methamphetamine-affected property, or that is suspected of being a methamphetamine-affected 
property as provided in Sections 3.2, 3.3 or 3.4 of this Part 1, to verify that cleanup standards 
have been met. If the subject property is a single family dwelling, the Consultant shall conduct 
clearance sampling of all structures on the property. If the subject property is a unit in a multi-unit 
building that has exclusive access to any auxiliary portion of the multi-unit property (such as a 
storage room or garage), the Consultant shall conduct clearance sampling of the unit and all such 
auxiliary structures. Samples shall be collected according to the following criteria: 
6.9.1 
Except as provided in Section 6.9.1.1, at least 400 cm2 of surface area shall be sampled 
from every room, attic, and crawl space. 
6.9.1.1 For buildings and structures that have had their internal walls removed during 
decontamination, post decontamination sampling shall be conducted in 
accordance with Section 6.9.2 and Section 6.9.3. 
6.9.2 
At least 800 cm2 of total surface area must be sampled for any single methamphetamine-
affected property. 
6.9.3 
For rooms greater than 500 ft2 of floor space an additional 100 cm2 of surface area shall 
be sampled for each additional 500 ft2 or fraction thereof. 
6.9.4 
For buildings and structures that have forced air ventilation systems, at least 400 cm2 of 
surface area of the ventilation system shall be sampled, unless the entire ventilation 
system is removed. Samples shall be collected from accessible areas within the heat 
exchanger unit, inside the cold air return system, from inside the supply air system, and 
from one other location selected at the Consultant’s discretion. The Consultant will 
visually inspect accessible portions of the ventilation system and review photo 
documentation to verify that the system has been cleaned and is free of debris. 
6.9.5 
For buildings and structures with non-ducted heating or cooling systems that circulate 
indoor air, one discrete sample shall be collected from each heating or cooling unit. 
6.9.6 
Composite samples may be used for clearance sampling of rooms, attics, crawl spaces, 
and personal property, provided all aliquots comprising a composite sample come from 
the same room, attic, or crawl space. 
6.9.7 
The interior of major appliances (microwaves, refrigerators, freezers, ovens, and dryers) 
must be sampled using discrete samples. The exterior of major appliances may be 
sampled using composite samples. 
6.9.8 
Items in a closet that is less than 75 ft.² may be sampled separately from items in the 
adjoining room (e. g., clothing from a bedroom closet may be sampled separately from 
textiles in the bedroom). 
6.9.9 
A composite sample of personal property is considered representative of contaminant 
levels on all personal property of that type material (non-porous, porous other than 
textiles/fabrics, or textiles/fabrics) within the same room. Should analysis of composite 
samples from multiple items indicate methamphetamine levels in excess of the cleanup 
standard, all items from which the composite sample was comprised, and all items of that 
type material within the same room will be considered to be in excess of the cleanup 
standard, unless a discrete sample of an individual item demonstrates that the cleanup 
standard has been met on that item.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
25 
6.9.10 For structures that have no rooms, the Consultant shall sample at least 100 cm2 of 
surface area for every 500 ft2 of floor space. 
6.9.11 Locations of clearance samples shall be based on information gathered during the 
preliminary assessment. Samples shall be collected from surfaces that have a 
reasonable potential to contribute to human exposure, including: 
6.9.11.1 
Areas expected to have the highest levels of contamination, such as 
cooking areas, chemical storage areas, and waste disposal areas. 
6.9.11.2 
Areas where contamination may have migrated, such as adjacent rooms 
or units, common areas, shared attics, shared crawl spaces, shared ventilation 
systems, and units connected to the contaminated unit by such attics, crawl 
spaces, or ventilation systems. 
6.9.11.3 
Personal property that will not be disposed of, except that hard non-
porous household goods including ceramics, hard plastics, metals, and glass that 
show no signs of having been used during the methamphetamine cooking 
process (e.g., are not etched, stained, or emitting odors) do not require clearance 
sampling if they are washed at least two times using a detergent-water solution. 
As used in this section, the term “household goods” excludes major appliances 
such as ranges, cooktops, ovens, microwaves, and refrigerators. 
6.9.11.4 
Clothing and linens, except that no sampling is required for: 
6.9.11.4.1 
clothing or linens that will immediately be disposed of at a solid 
waste landfill; or 
6.9.11.4.2 
clothing or linens that are not obviously contaminated, provided 
such items are managed in accordance with 5.11.3. 
6.10 
Clearance level sampling protocols for vehicles. 
6.10.1 The Consultant shall sample a minimum of 400 cm2 of the interior surface of the vehicle. 
6.10.2 The Consultant shall sample an additional 100 cm2 for every 50 ft2 of floor space for any 
large vehicle, such as a recreational vehicle, motor home, trailer, or camper. 
6.10.3 Composite sampling of vehicles is allowed, provided that all aliquots making up an 
individual composite are taken from the same vehicle. 
6.11 
Surface Soil Sampling. 
6.11.1 The following procedures shall be followed when conditions indicate the potential for soil 
contamination: 
6.11.1.1 
Samples for volatile organic compound (VOC) and semi-volatile organic 
compound (SVOC) analysis must be collected as discrete samples. 
6.11.1.2 
Samples for methamphetamine and non-volatile compounds may either 
be collected as discrete samples or composite samples. 
6.11.2 Discrete surface soil samples shall be collected as follows:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
26 
6.11.2.1 
At each sampling location, clear an area approximately 12 inches in 
diameter of surface vegetation and debris. 
6.11.2.2 
Use a decontaminated stainless steel spoon to collect the surface soil to 
a depth of six inches (i.e., 0-6 inch sample). A decontaminated stainless steel 
pick may be used as needed to loosen the soil. To the extent possible, eliminate 
gravel-sized or larger particles and debris based on visual observation. Be sure 
to collect sufficient sample volume to meet analytical requirements. 
6.11.2.3 
Use laboratory supplied or clean unused sample containers. If VOC and 
SVOC analyses are to be performed, immediately fill the VOC and SVOC sample 
containers fully to eliminate head space. Tightly seal the containers with the 
appropriate lids. Follow sample handling procedures as specified by the 
analytical method listed in Section 6.12 of this Part 1. 
6.11.2.4 
A Chain-of-Custody Record shall be maintained from the time of sample 
collection until final disposition. Sample(s) collected from a single 
methamphetamine-affected property shall be documented on one Chain-of-
Custody Record. Every transfer of custody shall be noted and signed for and a 
copy of the record shall be kept by each individual who has signed it. Samples 
shall be sealed, labeled, and secured. All samples collected shall be transported 
directly to the laboratory while maintaining the required temperature controls as 
specified by the analytical method. Shipping samples overnight is considered 
direct transport, and the shipping label shall be considered part of the Chain-of-
Custody Record. All sample documents shall be retained for the project record 
and included in the project reports. 
6.11.2.5 
Decontaminate the sampling equipment prior to collecting additional 
samples. 
6.11.3 Each composite surface soil sample shall be collected as follows: 
6.11.3.1 
Composite sampling shall consist of the collection of a 5-aliquot or 10-
aliquot composite soil sample collected from a grid with a maximum surface area 
of 10,000 ft2. Aliquot locations shall be evenly spaced throughout the entire grid. 
6.11.3.2 
Prior to sampling, calculate the volume of sample material to be collected 
for each aliquot to ensure that the necessary amount of composite sample will be 
obtained. Required sample volumes shall be those specified by the analytical 
method listed in Section 6.12 of this Part 1. For a given composite sample, the 
volume of each aliquot must be the same, and must equal 1/n of the required 
composite sample volume, where n equals the number of aliquot samples 
making up the composite sample. 
6.11.3.3 
At each aliquot sample location, clear an area approximately 12 inches in 
diameter of surface vegetation and debris. 
6.11.3.4 
Use a decontaminated stainless steel spoon to collect surface soil to a 
depth of six inches. A decontaminated stainless steel pick may be used as 
needed to loosen the soil. To the extent possible, eliminate gravel-size or larger 
particles and debris based on visual observation. Be sure to collect a sufficient 
volume of aliquot sample. The volume of aliquot collected at each location must 
be the same. 
6.11.3.5 
Place the aliquot into a decontaminated stainless steel mixing bowl.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
27 
6.11.3.6 
Repeat Steps 3 through 5 of this Section 6.11.3 at each aliquot sample 
location for a given composite sample, adding each successive aliquot sample to 
the mixing bowl. 
6.11.3.7 
Thoroughly mix the sample material in the stainless steel bowl using a 
decontaminated stainless steel spoon. To homogenize, divide the sample into 
four quarters and mix each quarter, then combine the four quarters and mix the 
entire sample. Place the mixture into appropriate laboratory-supplied or clean 
unused sample containers. Tightly seal the containers with the appropriate lids. 
Follow sample handling procedures as specified by the appropriate analytical 
method listed in Section 6.12 of this Part 1. 
6.11.3.8 
A Chain-of-Custody Record shall be maintained from the time of sample 
collection until final disposition. Sample(s) collected from a single 
methamphetamine-affected property shall be documented on one Chain-of-
Custody Record. Every transfer of custody shall be noted and signed for and a 
copy of the record shall be kept by each individual who has signed it. Samples 
shall be sealed, labeled, and secured. All samples collected shall be transported 
directly to the laboratory. Shipping samples overnight is considered direct 
transport, and the shipping label shall be considered part of the Chain-of-Custody 
Record. All sample documents shall be retained for the project record and 
included in the project reports. 
6.11.3.9 
Decontaminate the sampling equipment prior to collecting additional 
samples. 
6.11.4 If surface soil sampling indicates that soil has been impacted by methamphetamine lab 
waste, additional investigation and remediation shall be conducted under an approved 
plan in accordance with the Colorado Hazardous Waste Regulations (6 CCR 1007-3) or 
the Colorado Solid Waste Regulations (6 CCR 1007-2). 
6.12 
Analytical Methods. The following analytical methods, as incorporated in Section 9 of this Part 1, 
shall be used, as applicable, to determine the concentrations of chemicals in samples collected 
during screening level assessments, preliminary assessments, or clearance sampling. These 
incorporated materials are more fully identified, including dates of publication, in the list 
immediately following Section 9 of this Part 1. Sample handling, including labeling, preservation, 
documentation, and chain-of-custody, shall be conducted consistent with the requirements of the 
analytical method being used. Laboratory QA/QC practices, including the use of matrix spikes 
and matrix spike duplicates if required by the analytical method, shall be conducted in 
accordance with the specified method requirements. Analytical methods shall be based on the 
compound being sampled for. 
6.12.1 Analysis of wipe samples, bulk samples, and vacuum samples for methamphetamine 
shall be conducted using one of the following methods: 
6.12.1.1 
NIOSH Method 9106, Methamphetamine and Illicit Drugs, Precursors 
and Adulterants on Wipes by Liquid-Liquid Extraction (Issue 1, October 17, 
2011), or equivalent. 
6.12.1.2 
NIOSH Method 9109, Methamphetamine and Illicit Drugs, Precursors 
and Adulterants on Wipes by Solid Phase Extraction (Issue 1, October 17, 2011) 
or equivalent. 
6.12.1.3 
NIOSH Method 9111, Methamphetamine on Wipes by Liquid 
Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (Issue 1, October 17, 2011), or equivalent.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
28 
6.12.1.4 
Method 8270D in “Test Methods for the Evaluation of Solid Waste, 
Physical/Chemical Methods,” EPA Publication SW-846, or equivalent. 
6.12.2 Analysis of wipe samples and vacuum samples for iodine shall be conducted using 
Method 9021 or Method 6020 in “Test Methods for the Evaluation of Solid Waste, 
Physical/Chemical Methods,” EPA Publication SW-846. 
6.12.3 Analysis of wipe samples for lead shall be conducted using NIOSH Method 9100 (May 
1996). 
6.12.4 Analysis of vapor samples for mercury shall be conducted using NIOSH Method 6009 
(August 1994). 
6.12.5 The following analytical methods shall be used to characterize liquid wastes, 
contaminated soils, and soil samples collected during screening level assessments, 
preliminary assessments, or clearance sampling: 
6.12.5.1 
Samples shall be analyzed for VOCs by using Method 8260B in “Test 
Methods for the Evaluation of Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods,” EPA 
Publication SW-846. 
6.12.5.2 
Samples shall be analyzed for ignitability/flash point by a Pensky-
Martens Closed Cup Tester, using the test method specified in ASTM Standard 
D-93-79 or D-93-80 (or Method 1010A in EPA SW-846), or Setaflash Closed Cup 
Tester, using the test method specified in ASTM standard D-3278-78 (or Method 
1020B in EPA SW-846). 
6.12.5.3 
Samples shall be analyzed for corrosivity as determined by the pH 
electrometric measurement Method 9040C in EPA Publication SW-846, or by 
corrosivity toward steel using Method 1110A in EPA Publication SW-846. 
6.12.5.4 
Samples shall be analyzed for reactivity using Method 9014 and 9034 in 
EPA Publication SW-846. 
6.12.6 The following methods shall be used to determine if an OWTS has been impacted by 
methamphetamine lab wastes, and if the septic tank contains a characteristic hazardous 
waste: 
6.12.6.1 
VOCs using Method 8260B in “Test Methods for the Evaluation of Solid 
Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods,” EPA Publication SW-846. 
6.12.6.2 
Ignitability/flash point by a Pensky-Martens Closed Cup Tester, using the 
test method specified in ASTM Standard D-93-79 or D-93-80 (or Method 1010A 
in EPA SW-846), or Setaflash Closed Cup Tester, using the test method 
specified in ASTM standard D-3278-78 (or Method 1020B in EPA SW-846). 
6.12.6.3 
Corrosivity as determined by Method 9040C or Method 1110A in EPA 
Publication SW-846. 
6.12.6.4 
Reactivity using Method 9014/9034 in EPA Publication SW-846. 
6.12.7 Methamphetamine lab wastes and precursor chemicals discovered on the subject 
property shall be characterized using the analytical methods in Section 6.12.6 to 
determine if they are characteristic hazardous wastes. Alternatively, an onsite Hazard 
Categorization (HAZCAT) shall be conducted by a trained HAZCAT technician.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
29 
6.12.8 Data review and validation shall be conducted in accordance with USEPA Contract 
Laboratory Program National Functional Guidelines for Superfund Organic Methods Data 
Review (June 2008) or USEPA Contract Laboratory Program National Functional 
Guidelines for Inorganic Superfund Data Review (January 2010). 
7.0 
Cleanup standards. 
The following cleanup standards shall be used to determine if a subject property has been adequately 
decontaminated. They may also be used during the preliminary assessment to demonstrate that a subject 
property, or portion of a subject property, is not contaminated. All subject properties must meet the 
cleanup standard for methamphetamine. 
7.1 
The methamphetamine concentration of any sample shall not exceed 0.5 µg /100 cm2, except as 
provided in Sections 7.1.1 and 7.1.2 below. 
7.1.1 
Methamphetamine concentrations of samples taken from limited exposure areas shall not 
exceed 4 µg /100 cm2. 
7.1.2 
Methamphetamine concentrations of discrete or composite surface wipe samples taken 
from painted-over surfaces in accordance with Section 6.2.15 of this Part 1 shall not 
exceed 1.5 µg /100 cm2. 
7.1.2.1 After all painted-over surfaces (as defined in Section 2 of this Part 1) have been 
decontaminated in accordance with Section 5 above, and the area meets the 
cleanup standard specified in this Section 7, the painted-over surfaces shall be 
encapsulated in accordance with Section 5.5.1. Nothing in this Section 7.1.2 shall 
be construed to allow painting or encapsulation of surfaces that do not meet the 
cleanup standards in Section 7.1 at the time of discovery of a methamphetamine-
affected property. 
7.2 
If there is evidence of iodine contamination on materials or surfaces that will not be removed, 
surface wipe samples for iodine shall not exceed a concentration of 22 µg/100 cm2. 
7.3 
If the preliminary assessment indicates the phenyl-2-propanone (P2P) method of 
methamphetamine manufacturing was used, surface wipe samples for lead shall not exceed a 
concentration of 40 µg /ft2, and vapor samples for mercury shall not exceed a concentration of 1.0 
µg /m3. 
7.4 
In all buildings, if clearance-level sampling has been conducted and the results demonstrate that 
one or more rooms meet the cleanup standard in Section 7 of this Part 1, the rooms that meet the 
standard do not need to be decontaminated, provided that they are isolated from the remainder of 
the building in a manner that will prevent cross-contamination from decontamination activities 
elsewhere in the building. 
7.5 
If the composite sample result from a room is below the standard in this Section 7, personal 
property in the room is considered compliant if, in the Consultant’s judgment, the personal 
property is unlikely to have been contaminated from exposure elsewhere in the subject property, 
given the nature of the item, the time the item was introduced to the subject property (if known), 
and any other relevant factors or information.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
30 
8.0 
Post-Decontamination Reporting. 
The Consultant shall prepare a Post-Decontamination Report, in conjunction with the Contractor, to 
document the decontamination process and demonstrate that the entire subject property meets the 
cleanup standards listed in Section 7.0 of this Part 1. The Post-Decontamination Report shall include, but 
not be limited to, the following, to the extent available and applicable: 
8.1 
A copy of the Preliminary Assessment Report or a summary of the information and findings 
presented therein. 
8.2 
Photographic documentation of post-decontamination property conditions, including previously 
identified cooking areas, chemical storage areas, waste disposal areas, areas of obvious 
contamination and sample locations. 
8.3 
A description of the sampling procedures used, including sample collection, handling, and 
QA/QC. 
8.4 
Documentation of the analytical methods used and laboratory QA/QC documentation, including 
the laboratory analytical report and chain-of-custody documentation. 
8.5 
Results of post-decontamination clearance sampling, including a description of sample locations 
and a computer generated figure with sample locations and identification, and a copy of each 
laboratory report of post-decontamination sample results. Sample results shall be presented as 
reported by the analytical laboratory, and shall not be adjusted, changed, or manipulated in any 
way. Spiked samples submitted for analysis shall not be used for purposes of compliance with the 
regulation. 
8.6 
The Contractor shall provide an electronic copy of a Decontamination Summary Report, 
containing the following information, to the Department and to the Consultant within thirty (30) 
days of completion of decontamination work at the subject property for inclusion in the Post-
Decontamination Report: 
8.6.1 
A description and photographic documentation of the decontamination procedures used 
and a description of each area that was decontaminated. Photographic documentation 
shall include photographs of the ventilation system demonstrating that the system has 
been cleaned and is free of debris. 
8.6.2 
A description of the removal procedures used, a description of areas where removal was 
conducted, and the materials removed. 
8.6.3 
A description of the encapsulation procedures used and documentation of the areas 
and/or materials where encapsulation was performed. 
8.6.4 
A description of the waste management procedures used, including characterization, 
handling and final disposition of wastes. Copies of the waste manifests or bills of lading 
shall be included in the final report. 
8.6.5 
Evidence of Contractor certifications in accordance with Part 2 of these regulations. 
8.6.6 
Documentation of variations from standard practices. 
8.6.7 
A certification statement, signed by the Decontamination Supervisor who oversaw the 
work, in the following form:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
31 
“I hereby certify that the subject property has been decontaminated, and/or contaminated 
portions of the subject property have been removed, in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in 6 CCR 1014-3, Part 1, § 5.” 
8.6.8 
The Contractor shall retain a copy of the Decontamination Summary Report for a period 
of seven (7) years. 
8.7 
Evidence of Consultant certification under Part 2 of these regulations. 
8.8 
A certificate of compliance, signed by the Consultant, in the following form: 
“I do hereby certify that I conducted clearance sampling of the subject property in accordance 
with 6 CCR 1014-3, Part 1, § 6. I further certify that the cleanup standards established by 6 CCR 
1014-3, Part 1, § 7 have been met as evidenced by testing I conducted.” 
8.9 
The Consultant shall provide a copy of the Post-Decontamination Report to the property owner, 
the Contractor, and the Department within thirty (30) days of completing the report. The property 
owner, Contractor and Consultant shall each retain a copy of the Post-Decontamination Report 
for a period of seven (7) years. 
8.10 
To obtain the immunity provided in § 25-18.5-103(2), C.R.S., the owner must provide a copy of 
the report to the governing body as defined in § 25-18.5-101(7), C.R.S. 
9.0 
Referenced Materials. 
These regulations incorporate by reference (as identified within) materials originally published elsewhere. 
A list of these materials immediately follows this Section 9.0. These regulations do not include later 
amendments to or editions of the incorporated materials. The Department of Public Health and 
Environment maintains copies of the complete text of the incorporated materials for public inspection 
during regular business hours, and shall provide certified copies of any non-copyrighted material to the 
public at cost upon request. 
Information regarding how the incorporated materials may be obtained or examined is available from: 
Division Director 
Hazardous Materials Waste Management Division HMWMD-B2 
Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment 
4300 Cherry Creek Drive South 
Denver, CO 80246 
Copies of the incorporated materials have been provided to the State Publications Depository and 
Distribution Center, and are available for interlibrary loan. The incorporated materials may be examined at 
any state publications depository library. List of Part 1 Materials Incorporated by Reference: 
ASTM Method D-3278-78, Standard Test Methods for Flash Point of Liquids by Setaflash Closed Tester. 
ASTM Method D5756-02 (November 2002), Standard Test Method for Microvacuum Sampling and 
Indirect Analysis of Dust by Transmission Electron Microscopy for Asbestos Mass Concentration. 
ASTM Method D-93-79 or D-93-80, Standard Test Methods for Flash Point by Pensky-Martens Closed 
Tester. 
Field Manual for Grid Sampling of PCB Spill Sites to Verify Cleanup, EPA-560/5-86-017 (May 1986).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
32 
National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), U.S. Department of Health and Human 
Services (DHHS), NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods (NMAM), 4th. Ed., DHHS (NIOSH) Publication 
No. 94-113 (August, 1994), 1st supplemental publication 96-135 (1996), 2nd supplement publication 98-
119 (1998): 
Method 6009, Mercury (Issue 2, August 1994). 
Method 9100, Lead in Surface Wipe Samples (Issue 2, May 1996). 
Method 9106, Methamphetamine and Illicit Drugs, Precursors and Adulterants on Wipes by 
Liquid-Liquid Extraction (Issue 1, October 17, 2011). 
Method 9109, Methamphetamine and Illicit Drugs, Precursors and Adulterants on Wipes by Solid 
Phase Extraction (Issue 1, October 17, 2011). 
Method 9111, Methamphetamine on Wipes by Liquid Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry (Issue 
1, October 17, 2011). 
Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods, EPA Publication SW-846 [Third 
Edition (November 1986), as amended by Updates I (dated July 1992), II (dated September 1994), IIA 
(dated August 1993), IIB (dated January 1995), III (dated December 1996) and IIIA (dated April 1998)]: 
Method 1010A, Pensky-Martens Closed-Cup Method for Determining Ignitability (Revision O, 
September 1986). 
Method 1020B, Setaflash Close-Cup Method for Determining Ignitability (Revision 1, July 1992). 
Method 1110A, Corrosivity Toward Steel (Revision O, September 1986). 
Method 6020, Inductively Coupled Plasma – Mass Spectrometry (Revision O, September 1994). 
Method 8260B, Volatile Organic Compounds by Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry 
(GC/MS) (Revision 2, December 1996). 
Method 8270D, Semivolatile Organic Compounds by Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry 
(GC/MS) (Revision 4, February 2007). 
Method 9014, Titrimetric and Manual Spectrophotometric Determinative Methods for Cyanide 
(Revision O, December 1996). 
Method 9021, Purgeable Organic Halides (POX) (Revision O, December 1996). 
Method 9034, Titrimetric Procedure for Acid-Soluble and Acid Insoluble Sulfides (Revision O, 
December 1996). 
Method 9040C, pH Electrometric Measurement (Revision 3, November 2004). 
USEPA Contract Laboratory Program National Functional Guidelines for Superfund Organic Methods 
Data Review, Office of Superfund Remediation and Technology Innovation, United States Environmental 
Protection Agency, OSWER 9240.1-48, USEPA-540R-08-01 (June 2008). 
USEPA Contract Laboratory Program National Functional Guidelines for Inorganic Superfund Data 
Review, Office of Superfund Remediation and Technology Innovation, United States Environmental 
Protection Agency, OSWER 9240.1-51, USEPA-540R-10-011 (January 2010).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
33 
10.0 
Variances. 
10.1 
Contractors and Consultants may apply for authorization to vary their procedures from those 
prescribed in these regulations. Persons seeking authorization for one or more variances must 
submit requests in writing to the Department, and provide the following information: 
10.1.1 The citation of the regulation from which a variance is sought. 
10.1.2 An explanation of the basis for the request for a variance. 
10.1.3 Any supporting documentation (photographs, etc.). 
10.1.4 A description of the manner in which the person requesting the variance proposes to 
meet the intention of the regulatory requirement, or other justification for the proposed 
alternate procedure. 
10.2 
The Department shall review all requests for variances, and shall approve, approve with 
modifications, or deny the request. The Department will use its best efforts to make a 
determination within ten (10) days of receipt of the request. 
PART 2: 
TRAINING AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS 
1.0 
Applicability - 
The requirements of this Part apply to: 
1.1 
Consultants conducting assessment, sampling and clearance activities subject to the provisions 
of Part 1 of these regulations. 
1.2 
Contractors conducting decontamination of methamphetamine-affected properties under the 
provisions of Part 1 of these regulations. 
1.3 
Training Providers and instructors offering training under this Part 2. 
2.0 
Definitions - 
The definitions set forth in Part 1 of these regulations are incorporated into this Part 2 by reference. The 
following definitions shall also apply to this Part 2: 
“Qualified Instructor” means a person who meets the instructor qualification requirements for the 
course being taught, as set forth in Section 10.0 of this Part 2. 
“Training Provider” or “Approved Training Provider” means a firm that has received Department 
approval to provide training for one or more specific courses in the assessment, decontamination 
and sampling of illegal drug laboratories pursuant to this Part 2. 
3.0 
Interim Authorization 
3.1 
Persons who, as of the effective date of this Part 2 of these regulations, are performing 
assessment or decontamination activities subject to these regulations may continue to perform 
such activities, as long as they comply with the requirements of this section 3. 
3.2 
Any person who wishes to continue to perform assessment or decontamination activities subject 
to these regulations must submit an application for interim authorization to the Department within 
thirty (30) days after the effective date of this Part 2 of these regulations.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
34 
3.2.1 
An application for interim authorization for a Consultant consists of the application fee 
specified in Section 17.0; documentation of compliance with the industrial hygienist 
qualifications set forth in § 24-30-1402, C.R.S.; documentation of the successful 
completion of U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration hazardous waste 
operations and emergency response (HAZWOPER) training, including the initial 40-hour 
HAZWOPER training and a current 8-hour HAZWOPER refresher training, compliant with 
29 CFR 1910.120; and documentation of experience in methamphetamine lab 
assessment in Colorado, including at least one employment reference with contact 
information. 
3.2.2 
An application for interim authorization for a Decontamination Supervisor consists of the 
application fee specified in Section 17.0; documentation of the successful completion of 
HAZWOPER training, including the initial 40-hour HAZWOPER training and a current 8-
hour HAZWOPER refresher training, compliant with 29 CFR 1910.120; and 
documentation of experience in methamphetamine lab decontamination in Colorado, 
including at least one employment reference with contact information. 
3.2.3 
An application for interim authorization for a Decontamination Worker or Ventilation 
Contractor consists of the application fee specified in Section 17.0 and documentation of 
the successful completion of HAZWOPER training, including the initial 40-hour 
HAZWOPER training and a current 8-hour HAZWOPER refresher training, compliant with 
29 CFR 1910.120. 
3.2.4 
An application for interim authorization for a Consultant firm consists of the fee specified 
in Section 17.0 and a letter signed by an authorized official attesting that: 
3.2.4.1 the Consultant firm has been doing methamphetamine assessment work in 
Colorado (and providing at least one employment reference with contact 
information); 
3.2.4.2 the Consultant firm will only utilize individuals who are compliant with the 
HAZWOPER training requirements described in 3.2.3 to conduct assessment 
and sampling of methamphetamine-affected properties; and 
3.2.4.3 the Consultant firm and its employees will follow the assessment and sampling 
requirements specified in Part 1 of these regulations. 
3.2.5 
An application for interim authorization for a Contractor firm consists of the fee specified 
in Section 17.0 and a letter signed by an authorized official attesting that: 
3.2.5.1 the Contractor firm has been doing methamphetamine decontamination work in 
Colorado (and providing at least one employment reference with contact 
information); 
3.2.5.2 the Contractor firm will only utilize individuals who are compliant with the 
HAZWOPER training requirements described in 3.2.3 to conduct 
decontamination of methamphetamine-affected properties; and 
3.2.5.3 the Contractor firm and its employees will follow the decontamination 
requirements specified in Part 1 of these regulations. 
3.2.6 
An application for interim authorization for a Ventilation Contractor firm consists of the fee 
specified in Section 17.0 and a letter signed by an authorized official attesting that:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
35 
3.2.6.1 the Ventilation Contractor firm has been doing methamphetamine 
decontamination work in Colorado (and providing at least one employment 
reference with contact information); 
3.2.6.2 the Ventilation Contractor firm will only utilize individuals who are compliant with 
the HAZWOPER training requirements described in 3.2.3 to conduct 
decontamination of methamphetamine-affected properties; and 
3.2.6.3 the Ventilation Contractor firm and its employees will follow the decontamination 
requirements specified in Part 1 of these regulations. 
3.3 
The Department shall review all applications for interim authorization, determine whether each 
one is complete, and shall promptly notify each applicant of its determination within fifteen (15) 
days of receipt of the application. 
3.3.1 
A determination by the Department that an application for interim authorization is 
complete does not constitute a determination of compliance with the requirements for 
certification or authorization under this Part 2. 
3.3.2 
Notwithstanding Section 3.3.1, in reviewing the application for interim authorization, the 
Department may choose to determine whether the applicant meets the requirements for 
certification or authorization under this Part 2. If the Department determines that the 
applicant does not meet the requirements for certification or authorization, it shall so 
notify the person. This determination need not be made within the 15-day period provided 
in this section. 
3.4 
Commencing forty-six (46) days after the effective date of this Part 2, only those persons who 
have received notice from the Department that their application for interim authorization is 
complete may conduct assessment or decontamination activities subject to these regulations. 
3.5 
Interim authorization under this Section 3 shall terminate 180 days after the effective date of this 
Part 2. After that date, only those persons who have obtained the appropriate certification or 
authorization under this Part 2 may continue to conduct activities subject to these regulations. 
4.0 
General Requirements 
4.1 
No individual may perform assessment or decontamination of methamphetamine-affected 
properties, or assessment of properties pursuant to § 38-35.7-103, C.R.S., unless they have 
obtained certification as a Consultant, Decontamination Worker, Decontamination Supervisor, or 
Ventilation Contractor as appropriate for the work they perform, in accordance with this Part 2, or 
are in compliance with Section 3 of this Part 2. 
4.2 
No firm may perform assessment or decontamination of methamphetamine-affected properties, 
or assessment of properties pursuant to § 38-35.7-103, C.R.S., unless it has obtained approval 
as a Contractor firm, Ventilation Contractor firm, or Consultant firm as appropriate for the work 
they perform, in accordance with this Part 2, or is in compliance with Section 3 of this Part 2. 
4.3 
The Department will issue a state certification photo identification card and certificate to each 
individual who meets the requirements for certification as a Consultant, Decontamination Worker, 
Decontamination Supervisor, or Ventilation Contractor. Each individual certified under these 
regulations must have their state certification photo identification card available at each work site 
to demonstrate compliance with certification requirements.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
36 
4.4 
Course completion certificates are the property of the trained individual. Training providers must 
provide duplicate original course completion certificates to the trained individual upon request. 
The training provider may charge a reasonable fee for replacement of course completion 
certificates. 
4.5 
Falsification of course completion certificates or documents used to obtain state certification is a 
violation of these regulations and shall be sufficient reason for the denial and/or revocation of 
certification. 
4.6 
A person may hold more than one certification; however, a person may not act in the capacity of 
a Consultant and either a Contractor or a Ventilation Contractor on the same project. 
4.7 
All forms required under this part are available from the Department. 
5.0 
Consultant Individual Certification Requirements 
5.1 
Each individual applying for a Consultant certificate shall: 
5.1.1 
submit an application on a form specified by the Department and pay the application fee 
specified in Section 17.0; 
5.1.2 
demonstrate compliance with the industrial hygienist qualifications set forth in § 24-30-
1402, C.R.S. The applicant must provide documentation of degrees and experience 
claimed or instruction received, including submission of employment references and 
contact information; 
5.1.3 
provide documentation of current compliance with HAZWOPER training requirements 
specified in 29 CFR 1910.120; and 
5.1.4 
complete, and provide documentation of the successful completion of, a Department-
approved Consultant training course approved by the Department under Section 10.4 of 
this Part 2 within the 60-day period prior to submitting an application. 
 
5.2 
Each individual applying for a Consultant certificate or renewal of a Consultant certificate shall 
pass, on a biennial basis, a Department-administered closed-book examination on the 
assessment, sampling and decontamination of methamphetamine-affected properties. A passing 
score shall be 70% or higher. The test content, testing schedule and testing procedures shall be 
determined by the Department. An applicant who fails to achieve a passing score on a 
certification exam may retake the exam after submitting a new application, including a retesting 
fee. An applicant who fails to achieve a passing score on the subsequent certification exam must 
complete a refresher training course prior to attempting to pass the test a third time. The applicant 
may re-take the exam a third time after submittal of a new application and retesting fee and 
documentation of attendance at the refresher training course. An applicant who fails to achieve a 
passing score on a third consecutive test must re-take the basic training course and must comply 
with the application and fee requirements of Section 5.1.1. 
5.3 
The Department shall review all applications for Consultant certification and, within sixty (60) days 
of receipt, shall either issue a certificate of approval or a letter describing the reasons for 
disapproval. Consultant certificates are valid for two (2) years from the date of issuance, provided 
the individual maintains compliance with HAZWOPER training requirements specified in 29 CFR 
1910.120.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
37 
5.4 
Each individual applying for renewal of an existing Consultant certification or reinstatement of an 
expired certification shall submit an application on a form specified by the Department, complete 
a refresher Consultant training course approved by the Department under Section 10.4 of this 
Part 2, and comply with the testing requirements of Section 5.2. If the Consultant certification has 
been expired for more than 12 months, the individual must re-take the basic Consultant training 
course. 
5.5 
The requirements of Section 5.1.4 do not apply to Qualified Instructors applying for certification as 
a consultant. 
6.0 
Consultant Firm Certification Requirements 
6.1 
No firm may perform or offer to perform assessment of methamphetamine-affected properties, or 
assessment of properties pursuant to § 38-35.7-103, C.R.S., unless it has been certified by the 
Department. 
6.2 
A firm seeking certification as a Consultant firm shall submit an application on a form specified by 
the Department and pay the application fee specified in Section 17.0. 
6.3 
A firm seeking certification shall submit to the Department a letter signed by an authorized official 
attesting that the firm will only utilize appropriately-certified individuals to conduct assessment 
and sampling of methamphetamine-affected properties, and that the firm and its employees will 
follow the assessment and sampling requirements specified in Part 1 of these regulations. 
6.4 
The Department shall review the application, and shall, within sixty (60) days of receipt, either 
issue a certificate of approval or a letter describing the reasons for disapproval. 
6.5 
Consultant firm certifications are valid for two (2) years from the date of issuance. 
6.6 
Each firm applying for renewal of an existing certification or reinstatement of an expired 
certification shall submit an application on a form specified by the Department and pay the 
application fee specified in Section 17.0. 
6.7 
To maintain their certification, Consultant firms shall: 
6.7.1 
maintain all records pursuant to the requirements of Part 1, Section 8.0 of these 
regulations; 
6.7.2 
ensure that all individuals performing methamphetamine-affected property assessment 
and sampling or assessment and sampling of properties pursuant to § 38-35.7-103, 
C.R.S. for their firm have been properly trained and certified by the Department pursuant 
to the requirements of these regulations; 
6.7.3 
ensure that all individuals performing methamphetamine-affected property assessment 
and sampling or assessment and sampling of properties pursuant to § 38-35.7-103, 
C.R.S. for their firm maintain compliance with HAZWOPER training requirements 
specified in 29 CFR 1910.120; and 
6.7.4 
ensure that anyone performing methamphetamine-affected property assessment or 
sampling or assessment and sampling of properties pursuant to § 38-35.7-103, C.R.S. for 
their firm has a valid Colorado certification photo identification card on the worksite at all 
times.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
38 
7.0 
Decontamination Supervisor, Decontamination Worker and Ventilation Contractor 
Certification Requirements 
7.1 
Each individual applying for a Decontamination Worker certificate, Decontamination Supervisor 
certificate, or Ventilation Contractor certificate shall: 
7.1.1 
submit an application on a form specified by the Department and pay the application fee 
specified in Section 17.0; 
7.1.2 
provide documentation of current compliance with HAZWOPER training requirements 
specified in 29 CFR 1910.120; and 
7.1.3 
complete, and provide documentation of the completion of, a training course approved by 
the Department under Section 10.4 of this Part 2 appropriate for the certification they are 
seeking within the 60-day period prior to submitting the application. 
7.2 
Each individual applying for a Decontamination Worker certificate or Decontamination Supervisor 
certificate must pass a Department-administered closed book examination. A passing score shall 
be 70% or higher. The test content, testing schedule and testing procedures shall be determined 
by the Department. An applicant who fails to achieve a passing score on a certification exam may 
re-take the exam after submitting a new application, including a retesting fee. If an applicant fails 
to achieve a passing score on the subsequent certification exam, the applicant must complete a 
refresher training course prior to attempting to pass the test a third time. The applicant may re-
take the exam a third time after submittal of a new application and retesting fee and 
documentation of attendance at the refresher training course. If the applicant fails to achieve a 
passing score on a third consecutive test, the applicant must re-take the basic training course, 
and must comply with the application and fee requirements of Section 7.1.1. 
7.3 
Decontamination Worker and Decontamination Supervisor certificates are valid for two (2) years 
from the date of issuance, provided the individual maintains compliance with HAZWOPER 
training requirements specified in 29 CFR 1910.120. 
7.4 
Ventilation Contractor certificates are valid indefinitely, provided the individual maintains 
compliance with HAZWOPER training requirements specified in 29 CFR 1910.120. Ventilation 
Contractors are authorized to decontaminate ventilation systems, but may not perform any other 
decontamination work subject to these regulations, unless they are also certified as a 
Decontamination Worker or Decontamination Supervisor. 
7.5 
Each individual applying for renewal of an existing Decontamination Worker or Decontamination 
Supervisor certificate or reinstatement of an expired certificate shall: 
7.5.1 
submit an application on a form specified by the Department and pay the application fee 
specified in Section 17.0; 
7.5.2 
provide documentation of the successful completion of HAZWOPER 8-hour refresher 
training, as required by 29 CFR 1910.120; 
7.5.3 
successfully complete, and provide documentation of the successful completion of, a 
refresher training course approved by the Department under Section 10.4 of this Part 2 
appropriate for the certification they are seeking within the 60-day period prior to 
submitting the application; however, if the certification has been expired for more than 12 
months, the individual must successfully complete the basic training course appropriate 
for their certification; and 
7.5.4. 
comply with the testing requirements of Section 7.2.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
39 
7.6 
The requirements of Section 7.1.3 do not apply to Qualified Instructors applying for certification as 
Decontamination Workers, Decontamination Supervisors, or Ventilation Contractors. 
7.7 
The Department shall review all applications for Decontamination Worker certificates, 
Decontamination Supervisor certificates, and Ventilation Contractor certificates and, within sixty 
(60) days of receipt, shall either issue a certificate of approval or a letter describing the reasons 
for disapproval. 
8.0 
Contractor Firm Approval Requirements 
8.1 
No firm may perform or offer to perform decontamination of methamphetamine-affected 
properties unless it has been approved by the Department. 
8.2 
A firm seeking approval as a Contractor firm shall submit an application on a form specified by 
the Department and pay the application fee specified in Section 17.0. 
8.3 
A firm seeking approval shall submit to the Department a letter signed by an authorized official 
attesting that the firm will only utilize appropriately-certified individuals to conduct 
decontamination of methamphetamine-affected properties, and that the firm and its employees 
will follow the decontamination requirements specified in Part 1 of these regulations. 
8.4 
The Department shall review the application and, within sixty (60) days of receipt, shall either 
issue a certificate of approval or a letter describing the reasons for disapproval. 
8.5 
Contractor firm approvals are valid for two (2) years from the date of issuance. 
8.6 
Firms applying for renewal of approval or reinstatement of an expired approval shall submit an 
application on a form specified by the Department and pay the application fee specified in Section 
17.0. 
8.7 
To maintain its approval, a Contractor firm shall: 
8.7.1 
maintain all records pursuant to the requirements of Part 1, Section 8.0 of these 
regulations; 
8.7.2 
ensure that all individuals performing methamphetamine-affected property 
decontamination for the firm have been properly trained and certified by the Department 
pursuant to the requirements of these regulations; 
8.7.3 
ensure that all individuals performing methamphetamine-affected property 
decontamination for the firm maintain compliance with HAZWOPER training requirements 
specified in 29 CFR 1910.120; and 
8.7.4 
ensure that anyone performing methamphetamine-affected property decontamination for 
the firm has a valid Colorado certification photo identification card on the worksite at all 
times. 
9.0 
Ventilation Contractor Firm Approval Requirements 
9.1 
No firm may perform or offer to perform decontamination of ventilation systems at 
methamphetamine-affected properties unless it has been approved by the Department under 
Section 8 or Section 9 of this Part 2. 
9.2 
A firm seeking approval as a Ventilation Contractor shall submit an application on a form 
specified by the Department and pay the application fee specified in Section 17.0.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
40 
9.3 
A firm seeking approval as a Ventilation Contractor firm shall submit to the Department a letter 
signed by an authorized official attesting that the firm will only utilize appropriately-certified 
individuals to conduct decontamination of ventilation systems at methamphetamine-affected 
properties, and that the firm and its employees will follow the decontamination requirements 
specified in Part 1 of these regulations. 
9.4 
The Department shall review the application and, within sixty (60) days of receipt, shall either 
issue a certificate of approval or shall issue a letter describing the reasons for disapproval. 
9.5 
Ventilation Contractor firm approvals are valid for two (2) years from the date of issuance. 
9.6 
Firms applying for renewal of Ventilation Contractor firm approval or reinstatement of an expired 
approval shall submit an application on a form specified by the Department and pay the 
application fee specified in Section 17.0. 
9.7 
To maintain its approval, a Ventilation Contractor firm shall: 
9.7.1 
maintain all records pursuant to the requirements of Part 1, Section 8.0 of these 
regulations; 
9.7.2 
ensure that all individuals performing decontamination of ventilation systems at 
methamphetamine-affected properties for the firm have been properly trained and 
certified by the Department pursuant to the requirements of these regulations; 
9.7.3 
ensure that all individuals performing decontamination of ventilation systems at 
methamphetamine-affected properties for the firm maintain compliance with HAZWOPER 
training requirements specified in 29 CFR 1910.120; and 
9.7.4 
ensure that anyone performing decontamination of ventilation systems at 
methamphetamine-affected properties for the firm has a valid Colorado certification photo 
identification card on the worksite at all times. 
10.0 
Training Provider Approval Application and Renewal Procedures 
10.1 
Any firm wishing to receive approval as a Training Provider shall submit the information specified 
in Section 10.2 and the fee specified in Section 17.0. Training Provider approval is granted on a 
course-by-course basis for the following courses: 
10.1.1 Consultant course (includes basic and refresher); 
10.1.2 Decontamination Worker course (includes basic and refresher); 
10.1.3  Decontamination Supervisor course (includes basic and refresher); 
10.1.4 Ventilation Contractor course. 
10.2 
Firms seeking approval as Training Providers must submit the following information, as specified 
on an application form available from the Department, for each course that they wish to offer: 
10.2.1 a course syllabus addressing the curricula for the course as set forth in Appendix A or B; 
10.2.2 course materials appropriate to the syllabus;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
41 
10.2.3 the name, contact information (physical address, email address, telephone and fax 
numbers) and documentation of the qualifications of each Qualified Instructor who will 
teach each course; and 
10.2.4 the applicant’s name and business contact information (physical address, email address, 
telephone and fax numbers). 
10.3 
A training provider may apply for approval to offer additional courses at any time. 
10.4 
The Department shall review the application and, within ninety (90) days of receipt, shall inform 
the applicant in writing which courses, if any, it has been approved to offer as a Training Provider 
in Colorado. If the Department disapproves any application, it shall specify the changes that must 
be made before approval may be granted. 
10.5 
Training provider approval is valid for three (3) years from the date of issuance. 
10.6 
A firm desiring to renew its approval as a Training Provider for a given course or courses shall 
submit the following materials no later than sixty (60) days before the expiration date of its 
authorization: 
10.6.1 A description of any changes to the course content or course materials since the last 
application was approved. 
10.6.2 The name, contact information (physical address, email address, telephone and fax 
numbers) and documentation of the qualifications of any new instructors not included in 
previous applications. 
10.6.3 The application renewal fee for each course as specified in Section 17.0. 
11.0 
Qualified Instructor approval application and renewal procedures 
11.1 
A person seeking approval as a Qualified Instructor for Consultant training, Decontamination 
Worker training, Decontamination Supervisor training, or Ventilation Contractor training under this 
part shall submit an application on a form specified by the Department, pay the fee specified in 
Section 17.0, and meet the requirements of Section 11.4. A person seeking approval as a 
Qualified Instructor for Consultant training under this part must also meet the requirements of 
Section 11.2. A person seeking approval as a Qualified Instructor for Contractor training under 
this part must also meet the requirements of Section 11.3. 
11.2 
A person seeking approval as a Qualified Instructor for Consultant training must: 
11.2.1 be a high school graduate or have earned a GED; 
11.2.2 be a certified industrial hygienist or an industrial hygienist, as those terms are defined in § 
24-30-1402, C.R.S.; and 
11.2.3 have at least five (5) years of field experience conducting methamphetamine-affected 
property assessment and sampling activities. The applicant must provide documentation 
of degrees and experience claimed or instruction received as part of their application. 
Documentation shall include submission of employment references, including telephone 
numbers, to allow for Department verification. 
11.3 
A person seeking approval as a Qualified Instructor for Contractor training must: 
11.3.1 be a high school graduate or have earned a GED; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
42 
11.3.2 have five (5) years of field experience in the subject being taught. The applicant must 
provide documentation of experience claimed or instruction received. Documentation 
shall include submission of employment references, including telephone numbers, to 
allow for Department verification. 
11.4 
Persons seeking approval as a Qualified Instructor must pass a test administered by the 
Department with a score of 90% or higher. Applicants who fail to achieve a passing score must 
wait six (6) months before re-applying. 
11.5 
The Department will issue written approvals to persons who meet the requirements of Sections 
11.1 through 11.4. Qualified Instructor approvals are valid for two (2) years from the date of 
issuance. 
11.6 
Each individual applying for renewal of an existing approval as a Qualified Instructor or 
reinstatement of an expired approval shall submit an application on a form specified by the 
Department and comply with the testing requirements of Section 11.4. 
11.7 
The Department will, within ninety (90) days of receipt, review and approve, or disapprove all 
applications for approval as a Qualified Instructor, and for renewal of existing approvals. 
12.0 
Training Provider Requirements 
12.1 
To maintain approval to offer courses, approved training providers must comply with the 
requirements set forth in this section. 
12.2 
Course administration requirements. The training provider shall: 
12.2.1 require instructors to follow the approved syllabus for each course being taught; 
12.2.2 provide the Department information on newly hired Qualified Instructors, and notice of 
termination of Qualified Instructors; 
12.2.3 provide each student with a copy of the approved course materials; 
12.2.4 provide adequate facilities for the delivery of the lecture and hands-on training, as 
applicable; and 
12.2.5 ensure that all training courses are taught by a Qualified Instructor. 
12.3 
The training provider shall issue a course completion certificate to each student who attends the 
entire training course. The course completion certificate shall include: 
12.3.1 the name of the student; 
12.3.2 a unique identification number; 
12.3.3 the dates of course completion; and 
12.3.4 the name, address, email address, telephone number, and signature of the training 
provider. 
12.4 
Training providers must maintain the following records for a minimum of three (3) years, and 
make them available to the Department upon request: 
12.4.1 instructor qualifications;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
43 
12.4.2 syllabi and materials for all currently approved courses, and documents reflecting any 
changes to syllabi or materials for approved courses; 
12.4.3 documentation of the course completion rate; and 
12.4.4 each student’s course completion certificate. 
13.0 
Determinations Regarding Certification and Approval 
13.1 
The Department shall review all initial and renewal applications for Consultant, Consultant firm, 
Contractor, and Contractor firm certification, and for Qualified Instructor and Training Provider 
approval, and either grant or deny them. 
13.2 
The Department may deny certification to any person who does not meet the minimum 
qualifications set forth in Section 5.0 or 7.0 of this Part 2, as applicable. 
13.3 
The Department may deny approval to any firm that does not meet the requirements set forth in 
Section 6.0, 8.0, 9.0, or 10.0 of this Part 2, as applicable. 
13.4 
The Department may deny approval to any person who does not meet the requirements set forth 
in Section 11.0 of this Part 2, as applicable. 
13.5 
Failure to comply with applicable requirements of these regulations constitutes grounds for denial, 
suspension, revocation, or refusal to renew certifications and approvals. 
13.6 
The Department may deny, suspend, revoke or refuse to renew certifications and approvals in 
accordance with the provisions of § 25-18.5-107 and 24-4-104, C.R.S. 
14.0 
Training Course Notifications 
14.1 
Training course providers must notify the Department via e-mail of scheduled courses at least ten 
working days prior to the date of the course. 
14.2 
Notifications of course cancellations must be provided to the Department by 5:00 p.m. the day 
prior to the scheduled day of the course. 
15.0 
Training Course Audits 
15.1 
The Department may audit any training course approved under this part. 
15.2 
There shall be no registration fee to the Department for auditing a training course. 
15.3 
Any significant omissions or deficiencies observed during the audit may result in suspension or 
revocation of course approval. 
16.0 
Reciprocity 
16.1 
The Department may provide reciprocal certification for Decontamination Workers and 
Decontamination Supervisors certified in another state if it finds that: 
16.1.1 the decontamination standards and training of the other state are substantially similar to 
those of these regulations; and 
16.1.2 the person seeking reciprocity is currently in good standing in the other state.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
44 
16.2 
Each individual applying for reciprocity shall: 
16.2.1 submit an application on a form specified by the Department and pay the appropriate 
pplication fee specified in Section 17.2.2; 
16.2.2 provide documentation of compliance with HAZWOPER training requirements specified 
in 29 CFR 1910.120; and 
16.2.3 pass a Department-administered closed book examination. A passing score shall be 70% 
or higher. The test content, testing schedule and testing procedures shall be determined 
by the Department. If the applicant fails to achieve a passing score on the certification 
exam, the applicant must attend a Department-approved training course, and must 
comply with the application requirements of Section 7.0 and fee requirements of Section 
17.0. 
17.0 
Fees 
17.1 
Persons seeking initial, renewal, or reinstated certification or approval under this Part 2 shall 
submit application fees to the Department in accordance with the schedule in Section 17.2. 
17.2 
Fee Schedule 
17.2.1 Interim Authorization Fees 
Interim Authorization 
Fee 
Consultant 
$150 
Decontamination Worker 
$75 
Decontamination Supervisor 
$150 
Ventilation Contractor 
$50 
Contractor firm 
$250 
Consultant firm 
$250 
Ventilation firm 
$250 
17.2.2 Certification, Approval and Monitoring Fees (includes reciprocity) 
Type of certification or approval 
Fee 
Consultant 
$600 
Decontamination Worker 
$300 
Decontamination Supervisor 
$600 
Ventilation Contractor 
$200 
Contractor firm 
$1,000 
Consultant firm 
$1,000 
Ventilation firm 
$1,000 
Training provider (per class) 
$750 
Instructor 
$200 
Retesting (all disciplines) 
$100 
Photo ID replacement 
$25 
17.3 
Payment of fees is due concurrently with the application. 
17.4 
Fees must be paid by check, money order or electronic funds transfer (EFT) to the Treasurer of 
the State of Colorado.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
45 
APPENDIX A 
METHAMPHETAMINE-AFFECTED PROPERTIES CONSULTANT TRAINING 
CURRICULA REQUIREMENTS 
Purpose 
The purpose of this appendix is to establish minimum curricula requirements for Consultant training 
courses provided in accordance with these regulations. 
Course Duration 
The Basic Consultant Course duration shall be twenty four (24) hours 
The Consultant Refresher Course duration shall be eight (8) hours 
Basic Consultant Course Content 
The Basic Consultant Course shall cover, at a minimum, the following: 
1. 
Methamphetamine Background 
a. 
Overview of manufacturing methods 
i. 
precursors 
ii. 
byproducts 
iii. 
signs of contamination 
iv. 
contaminant migration and deposition 
b. 
Overview of chemical and physical hazards 
i. 
chemical properties and routes of exposure 
ii. 
flammable, combustible, corrosive and reactive materials 
iii. 
booby traps 
iv. 
sharps and biohazards 
c. 
Health Effects 
2. 
Worker Protection Overview 
a. 
Personal protective equipment (PPE) 
b. 
Worker decontamination 
3. 
Regulations 
a. 
Detailed review of methamphetamine lab cleanup regulation (6 CCR 1014-3, Part 1). 
b. 
Overview of asbestos sampling requirements, in accordance with Air Quality Control 
Commission (AQCC) Regulation No. 8, (5 CCR 1001-10, Part B), as applicable to 
methamphetamine lab assessment.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
46 
c. 
Overview of lead paint sampling and abatement requirements, in accordance with AQCC 
Regulation No. 19 (5 CCR 1001-23), as applicable to methamphetamine lab assessment 
d. 
Overview of hazardous waste regulations (6 CCR 1007-3) applicable to 
methamphetamine labs 
e. 
Overview of solid waste regulations (6 CCR 1007-2, Part 1) applicable to 
methamphetamine labs 
4. 
Screening level assessments 
a. 
Observations of property condition 
b. 
Screening level assessment sampling procedures 
i. 
wipe sample collection 
ii. 
sample handling requirements 
iii. 
sample chain-of-custody 
5. 
Preliminary Assessments 
a. 
Assessment of property condition 
i. 
identification of structural features 
ii. 
identification of areas known or suspected to have been painted after 
contamination event 
iii. 
identification of indoor and outdoor disposal areas 
b. 
Assessment Sampling procedures 
i. 
determination of material porosity 
ii. 
wipe sample collection 
iii. 
sampling to evaluate concentration below paint 
iv. 
vacuum sample collection 
v. 
bulk sample collection 
vi. 
iodine and mercury sampling 
vii. 
sampling for other compounds 
viii. 
sampling personal property 
ix. 
sample handling requirements 
x. 
sample chain-of-custody 
c. 
Assessment of on-site wastewater treatment systems (OWTSs)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
47 
i. 
screening 
ii. 
sample collection 
iii. 
sample handling requirements 
iv. 
sample chain-of-custody 
d. 
Record keeping 
6. 
Overview of decontamination and removal requirements 
7. 
Information needed to determine and develop decontamination scopes of work 
8. 
Communication and coordination with contractors, regulators, home owners, and tenants 
9. 
Clearance sampling (address painted or sealed surfaces) 
a. 
determination of material porosity 
b. 
wipe sample collection 
c. 
vacuum sample collection 
d. 
bulk sample collection 
e. 
iodine and mercury sampling 
f. 
sampling for other compounds 
g. 
personal property sampling 
h. 
sample handling requirements 
i. 
sample chain-of-custody 
10. 
Data QA/QC and interpretation for all types of samples 
11. 
Cleanup standards and clearance criteria 
12. 
Reporting 
Consultant Refresher Course Content 
The Consultant Refresher Course shall include, at a minimum: 
1. 
A thorough review of subjects covered in the Basic Consultant Course 
2. 
A review of regulatory changes and interpretations 
3. 
An update of information on industrial hygiene practices and procedures 
4. 
Other subjects as necessary to update information on new technologies or procedures

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
48 
APPENDIX B 
METHAMPHETAMINE-AFFECTED PROPERTIES CONTRACTOR TRAINING 
CURRICULA REQUIREMENTS 
Purpose 
The purpose of this appendix is to establish minimum curricula requirements for Decontamination Worker 
and Decontamination Supervisor, and Ventilation Contractor training courses provided in accordance with 
these regulations. 
Course Duration 
The Basic Decontamination Worker Course duration shall be minimum sixteen (16) hours. 
The Basic Decontamination Supervisor Course duration shall be minimum twenty four (24) hours 
(inclusive of basic worker course content). 
The Decontamination Worker Refresher Course duration shall be minimum eight (8) hours. 
The Decontamination Supervisor Refresher Course duration shall be minimum eight (8) hours. 
The Ventilation Contractor Course duration shall be minimum four (4) hours. 
Basic Decontamination Worker Course Content 
The Basic Decontamination Worker Course shall cover, at a minimum, the following: 
1. 
Methamphetamine Background 
a. 
Overview of manufacturing methods 
i. 
precursors 
ii. 
byproducts 
iii. 
signs of contamination 
b. 
Overview of chemical and physical hazards specific to methamphetamine manufacturing 
i. 
chemical properties and routes of exposure 
ii. 
flammable, combustible, corrosive and reactive materials 
iii. 
booby traps 
iv. 
sharps and biohazards 
c. 
Health Effects 
2. 
Worker Protection Overview 
a. 
Personal protective equipment (PPE) 
b. 
Worker decontamination 
3. 
Regulations

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
49 
a. 
Detailed review of methamphetamine lab cleanup regulation (6 CCR 1014-3, Part 1) 
b. 
Overview of asbestos sampling and abatement requirements, in accordance with Air 
Quality Control Commission (AQCC) Regulation No. 8, (5 CCR 1001-10, Part B), as 
applicable to methamphetamine lab decontamination and demolition 
c. 
Overview of lead paint sampling and abatement requirements, in accordance with AQCC 
Regulation No. 19 (5 CCR 1001-23), as applicable to methamphetamine lab 
decontamination and demolition 
d. 
Overview of hazardous waste regulations (6 CCR 1007-3) applicable to waste generated 
during decontamination. 
e. 
Overview of solid waste regulations (6 CCR 1007-2, Part 1) applicable to waste 
generated during decontamination. 
4. 
Decontamination Work Scope 
a. 
Identification of surfaces and items that can be decontaminated 
b. 
Identification of surfaces and items that should be removed 
c. 
Inventory of equipment and supplies 
d. 
Waste handling and disposal requirements 
5. 
Decontamination Procedures 
a. 
Sequencing of decontamination and removal 
b. 
Engineering and Environmental Controls 
i. 
establishing negative pressure containment (lecture and hands-on training) 
ii. 
establishing critical barriers 
iii. 
control of excess liquids 
c. 
Decontamination of surfaces 
i. 
non-porous surfaces 
ii. 
porous surfaces 
d. 
Removal of contaminated surfaces 
e. 
Decontamination of ventilation systems 
i. 
sequencing of work 
ii. 
component removal 
iii. 
component decontamination 
f. 
Decontamination of attics

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
50 
i. 
sequencing of work 
ii. 
insulation removal 
iii. 
control of excess liquids 
g. 
Decontamination of crawl spaces 
i. 
sequencing of work 
ii. 
insulation removal 
iii. 
vapor barrier removal and replacement 
iv. 
control of excess liquids 
h. 
Decontamination of personal property 
i. 
non-porous items 
ii. 
porous items 
iii. 
items that do not need to be sampled 
iv. 
items that need to be sampled 
i. 
Securing contaminated areas and/or items 
j. 
Discussion of demolition in lieu of decontamination 
k. 
Field documentation 
Basic Decontamination Supervisor Course 
The Basic Decontamination Supervisor Course shall cover, at a minimum, the following: 
1. 
All information provided in the Basic Decontamination Work Course 
2. 
Regulatory liability 
a. 
Overview of enforcement under the Regulation (6 CCR 1014-3, Part 3) 
b. 
Overview of enforcement of violations of other regulations specified in No. 3 of Basic 
Decontamination Worker Course 
c. 
Insurance requirements 
3. 
Health & Safety Plans 
4. 
Onsite training and oversight of sub contractors 
5. 
Pre-decontamination property evaluation 
a. 
Identification of surfaces and items that can be decontaminated

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
51 
b. 
Identification of surfaces and items that should be removed 
c. 
Inventory of equipment and supplies 
d. 
Identification of permit requirements for demolition of structures 
e. 
Evaluation of waste handling and disposal requirements 
f. 
Communication and coordination with consultant, regulators, home owners, and tenants 
6. 
Decontamination Work plan development 
7. 
Record keeping 
8. 
Reporting 
Decontamination Worker Refresher Course Content 
The Decontamination Worker Refresher Course shall include, at a minimum: 
1. 
A thorough review of subjects covered in the Basic Decontamination Worker Course 
2. 
A review of regulatory changes and interpretations 
3. 
An update of information on decontamination procedures and equipment 
4. 
Other subjects as necessary to update information on new technologies or procedures 
Decontamination Supervisor Refresher Course Content 
The Decontamination Supervisor Refresher Course shall include, at a minimum: 
1. 
A thorough review of subjects covered in the Basic Decontamination Supervisor Course 
2. 
A review of regulatory changes and interpretations 
3. 
An update of information on decontamination procedures and equipment 
4. 
Other subjects as necessary to update information on new technologies or procedures 
Ventilation Contractor Course 
The Ventilation Contractor Course shall cover, at a minimum, the following: 
1. 
Methamphetamine Background 
a. 
Overview of chemical and physical hazards specific to methamphetamine manufacturing 
i. 
chemical properties and routes of exposure 
ii. 
flammable, combustible, corrosive and reactive materials 
iii. 
booby traps 
iv. 
sharps and biohazards

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
52 
b. 
Health Effects 
2. 
Worker Protection Overview 
a. 
Personal protective equipment (PPE) 
b. 
Worker decontamination 
3. 
Regulations 
a. 
An overview of methamphetamine lab cleanup regulation (6 CCR 1014-3, Part 1) 
b. 
A detailed review of the ventilation system decontamination procedures in Section 5.6 of 
6 CCR 1014-3, Part 1 
4. 
Ventilation System Decontamination Procedures 
a. 
sequencing of work 
b. 
component removal 
c. 
component decontamination 
PART 3: 
ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES 
1.0 
Applicability - 
The requirements of this Part apply to: 
1.1 
Persons conducting assessment, sampling, and clearance activities of methamphetamine-
affected properties under the provisions of these regulations or assessment of properties 
pursuant to § 38-35.7-103, C.R.S. 
1.2 
Persons conducting decontamination of methamphetamine-affected properties under the 
provisions of these regulations. 
1.3 
Persons offering training under Part 2 of these regulations. 
2.0 
Definitions - 
The definitions set forth in Parts 1 and 2 of these regulations are incorporated into this Part by reference. 
The following definitions shall also apply to this Part: 
“Administrative penalty” means a monetary penalty levied by the Department against a person subject to 
these regulations because of a violation of the regulations. 
“Gross noncompliance” means substantial deviation from the requirements of these regulations. Gross 
non-compliance includes, but is not limited to, any of the following: 
1) 
falsifying, fabricating or misrepresenting any data, results or statements included in any 
report required to be prepared under these regulations; 
2) 
repeated violations of the same regulatory requirement; or 
3) 
knowing or intentional violations.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
53 
3.0 
Notification and Imposition 
3.1 
Whenever the Department has reason to believe that a person has violated any requirement of 
these regulations, the Department shall notify the person, specifying the requirement alleged to 
have been violated and the facts alleged to constitute the violation. 
3.2 
The Department shall either send the notification required by Section 3.1 by certified or registered 
mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the alleged violator, or personally 
serve the notice of violation upon the alleged violator or the alleged violator’s agent. Service shall 
not be incomplete due to any refusal to accept service. 
3.3 
The alleged violator has thirty (30) days following receipt of the notice to submit a written 
response containing data, views, and arguments concerning the alleged violation and potential 
corrective actions. 
3.4 
Within fifteen (15) days after receiving the notice of alleged violation, the alleged violator may 
request an informal conference with Department personnel to discuss the alleged violation. Such 
conference shall be held within the thirty (30) days allowed for written response. 
3.5 
After consideration of any written response and informal conference, the Department shall issue a 
letter within thirty (30) days after the date of the informal conference or written response, 
whichever is later, affirming or dismissing the violation. If the Department affirms the violation, the 
Department shall issue an administrative order within one hundred and eighty (180) days after the 
time for a written response has expired. The administrative order shall include any remaining 
corrective actions that the violator shall take and any administrative penalty that the Department 
determines is appropriate. 
3.6 
The Department shall serve an administrative order on the person subject to the order by 
personal service or by registered mail, return receipt requested, at the person’s last known 
address. 
3.7 
An administrative order may be prohibitory or mandatory in effect. 
3.8 
Administrative orders shall be effective immediately upon issuance unless otherwise provided in 
the order. 
4.0 
Penalties 
4.1 
Any person who violates any requirement of these regulations shall be subject to an 
administrative penalty not to exceed fifteen thousand dollars per day for each violation. 
4.2 
For any person subject to an administrative penalty as specified in Section 4.1, the amount of the 
penalty will be determined in accordance with the provisions of § 25-18.5-107 C.R.S. The factors 
contained in Sections 4.2.1 and 4.2.3 will be used to determine the severity of the violation and 
establish the base penalty amount. The factors contained in Sections 4.2.2, 4.2.4, and 4.2.5 are 
aggravating factors and may be applied with other factors to increase the penalty amount. The 
factors contained in Sections 4.2.7 and 4.2.8 are mitigating factors and may be applied with other 
factors to reduce the penalty amount. The factor contained in Section 4.2.9 may be an 
aggravating or mitigating factor and may be used to increase or decrease the penalty amount as 
determined by the Department. The economic benefit factor in Section 4.2.6 will be added to the 
adjusted penalty to reach the final penalty amount. The existence of multiple violations and the 
duration of the violation(s) will be considered in assessing a final administrative penalty. 
4.2.1 
the seriousness of the violation;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-3 
State Board of Health 
 
54 
4.2.2 
whether the violation was intentional, reckless, or negligent; 
4.2.3 
any impact on, or threat to, public health or environment as a result of the violation; 
4.2.4 
the violator’s degree of recalcitrance; 
4.2.5 
whether the violator has had a prior violation, if so, the nature and severity of the prior 
violation; 
4.2.6 
the economic benefit the violator received as a result of the violation; 
4.2.7 
whether the violator voluntarily, timely, and completely disclosed the violation before the 
Department discovered it; 
4.2.8 
whether the violator fully and promptly cooperated with the Department following 
disclosure or discovery of the violation; and 
4.2.9 
any other relevant aggravating or mitigating circumstances. 
4.3 
The Department may compromise, mitigate, or remit any administrative penalty as justified by 
written documentation. The Department may enter into a settlement agreement regarding any 
administrative penalty or claim. The settlement agreement may include payment or contribution of 
moneys to state or local agencies for other environmentally beneficial purposes. 
4.4 
At the request of the Department, the Attorney General may institute a civil action to collect any 
administrative penalty imposed pursuant to these regulations. 
5.0 
Judicial Review 
5.1 
Final actions of the Department are subject to judicial review in accordance with § 24-4-106, 
C.R.S. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 12/15/2014. 
Part 2 rule 4.8 emer. rule eff. 04/10/2020; expired 08/08/2020. 
Part 2 rule 4.8 emer. rule eff. 08/27/2020; expired 12/25/2020. 
Part 2 rule 4.8 emer. rule eff. 12/28/2020; expired 04/27/2021.
