---
id: "6_CCR_1009-11"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "6 CCR 1009-11"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=6519&fileName=6%20CCR%201009-11&type=pdf"
---

#### 6_CCR_1009-11. 6 CCR 1009-11

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
Disease Control and Environmental Epidemiology Division 
HEPATITIS C EDUCATION AND SCREENING 
6 CCR 1009-11 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Adopted by the State Board of Health; October 21, 2015. 
1. 
The Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment encourages each primary health 
care provider or physician, physician assistant, or nurse practitioner who treats a patient in an 
inpatient or outpatient setting to offer a person born between the years of 1945 and 1965 a 
Hepatitis C screening test or a Hepatitis C diagnostic test unless the specific circumstances 
delineated in § 25-4-2005(1)(a)-(c), C.R.S., are met. 
2. 
The health care provider shall make the offer of a hepatitis C screening test or diagnostic test to 
the patient in a linguistically and culturally appropriate manner, in accordance with the following 
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Culturally and Linguistically Appropriate Services 
(CLAS) Standards: 
2.1 
Provide effective, equitable, understandable, and respectful quality care and services that 
are responsive to diverse cultural health beliefs and practices, preferred languages, 
health literacy, and other communication needs. 
2.2 
Advance and sustain organizational governance and leadership that promotes CLAS and 
health equity through policy, practices, and allocated resources. 
2.3 
Recruit, promote, and support a culturally and linguistically diverse governance, 
leadership, and workforce that are responsive to the population in the service area. 
2.4 
Educate and train governance, leadership, and workforce in culturally and linguistically 
appropriate policies and practices on an ongoing basis. 
2.5 
Offer language assistance to individuals who have limited English proficiency and/or 
other communication needs, at no cost to them, to facilitate timely access to all health 
care and services. 
2.6 
Inform all individuals of the availability of language assistance services clearly and in their 
preferred language, verbally and in writing. 
2.7 
Ensure the competence of individuals providing language assistance, recognizing that 
the use of untrained individuals and/or minors as interpreters should be avoided. 
2.8 
Provide easy-to-understand print and multimedia materials and signage in the languages 
commonly used by the populations in the service area. 
2.9 
Establish culturally and linguistically appropriate goals, policies, and management 
accountability, and infuse them throughout the organization’s planning and operations. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1009-11 
Disease Control and Environmental Epidemiology Division 
 
2 
2.10 
Conduct ongoing assessments of the organization’s CLAS-related activities and integrate 
CLAS-related measures into measurement and continuous quality improvement 
activities. 
2.11 
Collect and maintain accurate and reliable demographic data to monitor and evaluate the 
impact of CLAS on health equity and outcomes and to inform service delivery. 
2.12 
Conduct regular assessments of community health assets and needs and use the results 
to plan and implement services that respond to the cultural and linguistic diversity of 
populations in the service area. 
2.13 
Partner with the community to design, implement, and evaluate policies, practices, and 
services to ensure cultural and linguistic appropriateness. 
2.14 
Create conflict and grievance resolution processes that are culturally and linguistically 
appropriate to identify, prevent, and resolve conflicts or complaints. 
2.15 
Communicate the organization’s progress in implementing and sustaining CLAS to all 
stakeholders, constituents, and the general public. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 12/15/2015.
