---
id: "6_CCR_1014-6"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "6 CCR 1014-6"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=6459&fileName=6%20CCR%201014-6&type=pdf"
---

#### 6_CCR_1014-6. 6 CCR 1014-6

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
State Board of Health 
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS FOR PUBLIC HEALTH DIRECTOR AND MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS 
FOR MEDICAL OFFICER 
6 CCR 1014-6 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Adopted by the Board of Health on August 19, 2015 
1.1 
General Statement of Duties: 
(1) 
Pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes, part 5 of article 1 of title 25, the administrative and 
executive head of each county or district public health agency shall be the public health director. 
In addition to the other powers and duties conferred by part 5 or by the agency, a public health 
director has the following powers and duties: 
(a) 
To administer and enforce: 
(i) 
The public health laws of the state and, as authorized by the provisions of this 
title or article 20 of title 30, C.R.S., the public health orders, rules, and standards 
of the state department or the state board; and 
(ii) 
The orders and rules of the county or district board. 
(b) 
To exercise all powers and duties conferred and imposed upon agencies not expressly 
delegated by the provisions of part 5 to a county or district board; 
(c) 
To hold hearings, administer oaths, subpoena witnesses, and take testimony in all 
matters relating to the exercise and performance of his or her powers and duties; 
(d) 
To act as the local registrar of vital statistics or to contract out the responsibility of 
registrar in the area over which the agency has jurisdiction; 
(e) 
To direct the resources needed to carry out the county or district public health plan 
developed pursuant to section 25-1-505, C.R.S.; and 
(f) 
If requested by the county or district board, to serve as secretary to the board responsible 
for maintaining all records required by part 2 of article 72 of title 24, C.R.S., and ensuring 
public notice of all meetings in accordance with part 4 of article 6 of title 24, C.R.S., the 
director shall be the custodian of all properties and records for the agency. 
 
 
 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-6 
State Board of Health 
 
2 
1.2 
Minimum Qualifications: 
(1) 
25-1-508(5)(c)(I) 
The public health director shall possess such minimum qualifications as 
may be prescribed by the state board. A public health director may be a physician, a public health 
nurse, or other qualified public health professional. A public health director may practice medicine 
or nursing within his or her license and scope of practice, as necessary, to carry out the functions 
of the office of the public health director. The qualifications shall reflect the resources and needs 
of the county or counties covered by the agency. If the public health director is not a physician, 
the county or district board shall employ or contract with at least one medical officer to advise the 
public health director on medical decisions. 
Except as provided in section 1.3 of these rules, a public health director shall have the minimum 
experience and training standards set forth in subsections (2) or (3) of this section. 
(2) 
A Physician Director candidate shall: 
(a) 
Be licensed to practice medicine in the state of Colorado within six months of hire; 
(b) 
Have graduated from an approved medical school (MD or DO) and preferably be certified 
by the American Board of Preventive Medicine or American Board of Osteopathic 
Preventive Medicine; and 
(c) 
Have five years within the past ten years of successful and responsible administrative 
experience in public health or a closely related field, including at least two years 
experience in supervising public health professionals. 
(d) 
A candidate with one year of graduate study in a recognized school of public health is 
preferred. 
(3) 
A Non-Physician Director candidate shall: 
(a) 
Have a master’s degree in a public health discipline such as environmental health, health 
education, epidemiology, health administration/policy, biostatistics, etc; nursing, public 
administration, health administration or a closely related discipline; and 
(b) 
Have five years within the past ten years of successful and responsible administrative 
experience in public health or a closely related field, including at least two years 
experience in supervising public health professionals. 
(c) 
A nurse candidate shall be licensed to practice in the state of Colorado within six months 
of hire. 
(d) 
Medical Officer: If the public health director is not a licensed physician, a designated 
medical officer (advisor) shall be employed or contracted (paid or volunteer) by the 
district or county board of health to advise the public health director on medical decisions 
and be available at all times to the public health director. The medical officer must be a 
graduate from an approved medical school (MD or DO) and licensed to practice medicine 
in the state of Colorado. 
1.3 
Reporting requirements: 
Within 30 days of appointing a new public health director, the county or district board of health will submit 
documentation summarizing the recruitment efforts for and the qualifications of the newly appointed 
public health director, on a form prescribed by the department.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-6 
State Board of Health 
 
3 
1.4 
Substitutions and Waivers: 
(1) 
Substitutions 
The county or district board of health, may substitute year for year professional public health work 
experience for certain academic requirements or exceptional academic preparation for certain 
experience requirements when a candidate is otherwise prepared to carry out the duties of a 
public health director. Within 30 days of appointing a new director, the county or district board of 
health shall submit the substitution and the information upon which the substitution was allowed 
to the Department for review. 
When substituting education or experience to meet minimum qualifications, the county or district 
board of health will consider: 
(A) 
The relevance of the experience or education to the duties contained above in 1.1; and 
(B) 
The resources and needs of the county or district. 
(2) 
Waivers 
If recruitment for a public health director who meets minimum qualifications as described in 
Section 1.2 is not successful, the county or district board of health may waive the minimum 
qualifications set forth in these rules. Within 30 days of appointing the new director, the county or 
district board of health shall submit waiver information to the Department for review. 
When waiving minimum qualifications, the county or district board of health will consider: 
(A) 
The population of the jurisdiction for the county or district served and its ability to recruit a 
qualified candidate; 
(B) 
Whether the candidate for public health director will seek to obtain additional public 
health education and experience within five years of the waiver; and 
(C) 
The county or district board of health has explored joining with a county or establishing a 
district public health agency with a qualified public health director. 
(3) 
When using a substitution or waiver, the county or district board of health is strongly encouraged 
to assess competencies and address gaps by enabling organizational and individual training and 
development opportunities pursuant to 6 CCR 1014-9 rule (3.1)(H)(2). 
1.5 
Statewide reporting 
The Department will make aggregate information about the qualifications of public health directors 
publicly available on an annual basis. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 06/30/2009. (Rule recodified from 6 CCR 1012-1. See 6 CCR 1012-1 for prior versions.) 
Sections 1.3 – 1.5 eff. 11/01/2015.
