---
id: "6_CCR_1014-10"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "6 CCR 1014-10"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=5704&fileName=6%20CCR%201014-10&type=pdf"
---

#### 6_CCR_1014-10. 6 CCR 1014-10

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
State Board of Health 
FUNDING FORMULA TO ALLOCATE LOCAL PLANNING AND SUPPORT DISTRIBUTIONS TO 
LOCAL PUBLIC HEALTH AGENCIES 
6 CCR 1014-10 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
1.1 
This funding formula allocates state funds appropriated to Local Planning and Support 
Distributions to Local Public Health Agencies in the state budget pursuant to the authority in 
section 25-1-503 et seq. 
1.2 
Each county and district public local health department subject to Section 25-1-501 et seq., 
C.R.S., shall receive funding from the Local Planning and Support Distributions to Local Public 
Health Agencies based on the following formula: 
A. 
Core Services Base Funding. The amount of this base funding considers a number of 
factors related to the provision or assurance of the following core public health services 
according to 6 CCR 1014-7: 
• 
Assessment, Planning, and Communication 
• 
Vital Records and Statistics 
• 
Communicable Disease Prevention, Investigation, and Control 
• 
Prevention and Population Health Promotion 
• 
Emergency Preparedness and Response 
• 
Environmental Health 
• 
Administration and Governance, and 
B. 
Regional Distribution.  Local Public Health Agencies serving multiple counties shall 
receive a regional distribution equal to the minimum Core Services Base Funding 
distributed that year per each additional county served, and  
C. 
Per Capita. The remaining amount in the Local Planning and Support Distributions to 
Local Public Health Agencies shall be distributed on a per capita basis using the 
Department of Local Affairs population estimates for the fiscal year. 
1.3 
The formula shall be reviewed every 5 years or earlier, if necessary, with input from the Colorado 
Department of Public Health and Environment and county and district public health agencies. 
 
 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
2 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 05/15/2014.
