---
id: "6_CCR_1010-4"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "6 CCR 1010-4"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=11904&fileName=6%20CCR%201010-4&type=pdf"
---

#### 6_CCR_1010-4. 6 CCR 1010-4

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
COLORADO MILK AND DAIRY PRODUCTS REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-4 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Adopted by the Board of Health on February 19, 2025; effective, April 14, 2025 
4.1 
Authority 
This regulation is adopted pursuant to Section 25-1.5-104(1)(b)(I), 25-5.5-103, 25-5.5-107(5), and (6), 25-
5.5-205, 25-5.5-309, and 25-5.5-310, Colorado Revised Statute (C.R.S.) and is consistent with the 
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, Section 24-4-101, et seq., C.R.S. 
4.2 
Scope and Purpose 
A. 
This regulation shall govern: 
1. 
Dairy sanitation, the processing, packaging, transportation and sale of Grade “A” milk and 
milk products, and represents the state and federal standard for Grade “A” milk 
sanitation; 
2. 
Sanitary production of milk for manufacturing purposes including its transportation, 
grading, use, processing, and the packaging, labeling and storage of dairy products 
made there from; 
3. 
Licensure and inspection of dairy farms and dairy plants for the production and sale of 
milk or dairy products for manufacturing purposes; 
4. 
Retention of appropriate documentation and records by plants licensed hereunder; 
5. 
Licensure of qualified milk or dairy product samplers and testers. 
B. 
Section 4.7 of this regulation incorporates by reference the Grade “A” Pasteurized Milk Ordinance 
2023 Revision (“PMO”), including supplements, provisions, administrative procedures and 
appendices, Procedures Governing the Cooperative State-Public Health Service/Food and Drug 
Administration Program of the National Conference on Interstate Milk Shipments, including the 
Constitution and Bylaws, 2023 Revision (“Procedures”), and Methods of Making Sanitation 
Ratings of Milk Shippers and the Certifications/Listings of Single-Service Containers and/or 
Closures for Milk and/or Milk Products Manufacturers, 2023 Revision (“Methods”) in effect as of 
this date. 
4.3 
Applicability 
A. 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 25-1.5-104(1)(b)(I), C.R.S., this regulation shall apply to 
dairy plants, dairy farms, processing plants, receiving stations and other facilities or 
establishments handling, transporting or selling any Grade “A” milk and dairy products for human 
consumption. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-4 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
2 
B. 
The PMO shall apply to dairy sanitation and the labeling and grading of milk pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 25-1.5-104(1)(b)(I), C.R.S., in so far as it is consistent with Colorado 
statutes and regulations, except that: In the PMO as indicated, “State of Colorado” shall be 
inserted in all footnotes numbered (2). 
C. 
The PMO shall apply to the production of raw milk and cream for manufacturing purposes, butter, 
raw aged cheeses, pasteurized cheese and cheese products, frozen desserts, ice cream, 
pasteurized ice cream, dry whole milk, nonfat dry milk, dry buttermilk, dry whey, evaporated milk 
(whole or skim), condensed whole milk (excluding sweetened condensed milk), condensed skim 
milk, cottage cheese, dry curd cottage cheese, low fat cottage cheese, and other such products 
for human consumption, as may be otherwise designated. These products may be produced from 
cow, goat, sheep, camel or other milk producing animals. 
D. 
The PMO shall apply to the production, transportation, processing, handling, sampling, 
examination, labeling, and sale of milk and dairy products; the inspection of dairy farms, milk tank 
trucks, milk plants, receiving stations, transfer stations, milk tank truck cleaning facilities, and bulk 
milk hauler/samplers. 
E. 
The PMO shall apply to the issuing and revocation of licenses to milk and dairy producers, dairy 
farms, bulk milk hauler/samplers, milk tank trucks, milk transportation companies, milk plants, 
receiving stations, transfer stations, milk tank truck cleaning facilities, haulers, and distributors; 
and the fixing of penalties. 
F. 
The department shall utilize the PMO or other department approved methods as appropriate to 
assure that non-Grade “A” manufactured milk and dairy products are in compliance with Section 
25-5.5-101, et seq., C.R.S. 
4.4 
Definitions 
A. 
For the purpose of these rules and regulations: 
1. 
Jurisdiction (as used in the PMO) means the State of Colorado. 
2. 
Ordinance (as used in the PMO) means the regulations of the State of Colorado. 
3. 
Regulatory Agency means the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment 
and its authorized representative. 
4. 
Sale means the transfer of manufactured milk and dairy products from one individual, 
partnership, or corporation to another individual, partnership, or corporation in exchange 
for cash or any other contractual obligation to pay for the product. 
4.5 
License Requirements 
Any person desiring to operate a dairy farm, milk or dairy plant or receiving station or to sample or test 
milk or cream for the purpose of payment in this state, before undertaking such operation, shall make 
application to and, if approved, be licensed by the Department in accordance with Section 25-5.5-107, 
C.R.S. 
4.6 
Denial and Suspension of Licenses 
All denials, suspensions or revocations of licenses shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions 
of Sections 24-4-104 and 24-4-105, C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-4 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
3 
4.7 
Incorporation by Reference 
A. 
Throughout these regulations, standards and requirements of outside organizations have been 
adopted and incorporated by reference. The material incorporated by reference cited herein 
includes only those versions that were in effect as of December 2024, and not later amendments 
or editions of to the incorporated materials. These rules incorporate by reference: 
1. 
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service/Food and Drug 
Administration, and the National Conference On Interstate Milk Shipments Grade “A” 
Pasteurized Milk Ordinance, 2023 Revision (“PMO”), including supplements, 
administrative procedures, appendices, and coded Food and Drug Administration 
Interpretative Memoranda; 
2. 
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service/Food and Drug 
Administration and the National Conference On Interstate Milk Shipments, Procedures 
Governing the Cooperative State-Public Health Service/Food and Drug Administration 
Program of the National Conference on Interstate Milk Shipments, including the 
Constitution and Bylaws, 2023 Revision (“Procedures”); and 
3. 
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service/Food and Drug 
Administration, and the National Conference On Interstate Milk Shipments, Methods of 
Making Sanitation Ratings of Milk Shippers and the Certifications/Listings of Single-
Service Containers and/or Closures for Milk and/or Milk Products Manufacturers, 2023 
Revision (“Methods”). 
B. 
The Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability shall maintain certified copies of the 
complete text of the incorporated materials, which shall be available for public inspection at the 
address below during regular business hours, and shall provide certified copies of the materials at 
cost upon request. For information regarding how the incorporated materials may be obtained or 
examined, contact: 
Division Director 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment 
4300 Cherry Creek Drive South 
Denver, Colorado 80246-1530 
C. 
The incorporated materials are also available for public inspection electronically at: 
https://www.fda.gov/Food/GuidanceRegulation/GuidanceDocumentsRegulatoryInformatio
n/Milk/ucm2007966.htm 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 10/15/2010. 
Entire rule eff. 10/15/2014. 
Entire rule eff. 01/14/2017. 
Entire rule eff. 05/15/2019. 
Entire rule eff. 01/14/2021. 
Rules 4.2 B, 4.7 eff. 04/14/2025.
