---
id: "6_CCR_1008-1"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "6 CCR 1008-1"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=5428&fileName=6%20CCR%201008-1&type=pdf"
---

#### 6_CCR_1008-1. 6 CCR 1008-1

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES 
Alcohol and Drug Abuse Division 
ALCOHOL AND OTHER DRUG ABUSE/DEPENDENCE TREATMENT STANDARDS - Repealed eff. 
11/01/2013 
6 CCR 1008-1 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
STATEMENT OF BASIS AND PURPOSE, REGULATORY ANALYSIS AND SPECIFIC STATUTORY 
AUTHORITY 
Alcohol and Other Drug Abuse Treatment rules of the Alcohol and Drug Abuse Division (ADAD) were 
originally adopted 5/18/76 by the Department of Health, with an effective date of 8/1/76. Subsequent 
revisions of these rules were adopted 4/15/81, effective 5/30/81; 4/17/85, effective 5/30/85; 5/21/86, 
effective 7/30/86; 3/16/88, effective 4/30/88; 1/18/89, effective 3/2/89; and, 3/18/92, effective 4/30/92. 
These rule sections were rewritten and final adoption following publication at the 1/9/98 State Board of 
Human Services meeting, with an effective date of 3/1/98 (CSPR# 97-4-11-1). Statement of Basis and 
Purpose, Regulatory Analysis, and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by 
reference into the rule. These materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours 
at the Office of External Affairs, Department of Human Services. 
These rule sections were rewritten and final adoption following publication at the 5/7/99 State Board of 
Human Services meeting, with an effective date of 7/1/99 (CSPR# 99-2-10-1). Statement of Basis and 
Purpose, Regulatory Analysis, and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by 
reference into the rule. These materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours 
at the Office of External Affairs, Department of Human Services. 
Addition of sections 15.100 through 15.118 were adopted following publication at the 11/1/2002 State 
Board of Human Services meeting, with an effective date of 1/1/2003 (Rule# 02-6-19-1). Statement of 
Basis and Purpose, regulatory analysis, and specific statutory authority for these revisions were 
incorporated by reference into the rule. These materials are available for review by the public during 
normal working hours at the Colorado Department of Human Services, Office of Performance 
Improvement, Boards and Commissions Division, State Board Administration. 
Re-write of Treatment Rule Sections 1.0 through 14.2, which were replaced by Sections 15.200 through 
15.230.3, were adopted following publication at the 1/6/2006 State Board of Human Services meeting, 
with an effective date of 3/2/2006 (Rule-making# 05-8-22-1). Statement of Basis and Purpose, regulatory 
analysis, and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the rule. 
These materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours at the Colorado 
Department of Human Services, Office of Performance Improvement, Boards and Commissions Division, 
State Board Administration. 
Rules regarding alcohol and drug abuse, as originally found in 6 CCR 1008-1, are repealed in their 
entirety and rewritten as a consolidation of Behavioral Health rules in 2 CCR 502-1 as adopted following 
publication at the 9/6/2013 State Board of Human Services meeting, with an effective date of 11/1/2013 
(Rule-making# 13-3-4-1). Statement of Basis and Purpose, fiscal impact, and specific statutory authority 
for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the rule. These materials are available for review 
by the public during normal working hours at the Colorado Department of Human Services, Office of 
Enterprise Partnerships, Division of Boards and Commissions, State Board Administration. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
2 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule repealed eff. 11/01/2013.
