---
id: "6_CCR_1010-10"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "6 CCR 1010-10"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=411&fileName=6%20CCR%201010-10&type=pdf"
---

#### 6_CCR_1010-10. 6 CCR 1010-10

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
GROUP GATHERING AREAS 
6 CCR 1010-10 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
______________________________________________________________________ 
1.0  ADMINISTRATION 
1.1  AUTHORITY:  Sections 24-4-103, 25-1-107 (m) and 25-13-104 and 109, Colorado Revised Statutes 
1973, as amended. 
1.2  ADOPTED:August 16, 1972. 
1.3  EFFECTIVE DATE:  September 22, 1972. 
1.4  PURPOSE:The purpose of these standards and regulations is to provide minimum requirements for 
the protection of the health and safety of assemblies of people, in excess of those normally requiring 
health and sanitary services provided in a community, and for the protection of the health and safety of 
the general public. 
1.5  APPLICATION:The provisions of these standards and regulations apply to basic sanitation and 
health services, occupancy, maintenance and use of group gathering areas. These requirements are not 
intended to pre-empt or limit the authority of any town, city, or county to concurrently regulate group 
gatherings. 
2.0  DEFINITIONS 
For the purpose of these regulations: 
2.1  Group gathering area means any place maintained, operated or used for a group gathering, 
or assemblage, except an established permanent stadium, athletic field, arena, auditorium, 
coliseum, fairground, or other similar permanent place of assembly. 
2.2  Group gathering means a group of 25 or more persons assembled together for a meeting, 
festival, social gathering, or other similar purposes chat can be anticipated to exceed 10 hours. 
Group gatherings of 25 to 500 persons shall be exempt from meeting provisions of Sections A.5; 
4.6c, d;-4.7; 6.7; 6.8; 8.2; 11.1; 11.2; 11.3; 11.4; 11.5; and 13.1a, b of these standards. 
2.3  Health Department means the “Colorado Department of Health” and its authorized 
inspectors, agents and employees. 
2.4  Operator means the person responsible for managing the group gathering area. in the event 
that no “manager” exists, the owner, or In the event of his unavailability, the lessee of the ground 
encompassing the group gathering area, shall be deemed to be the “operator” under these 
regulations. 
2.5  Person means an individual, group of individuals, association, partnership or corporation, 
firm, or company. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
2 
2.6  Refuse means all combustible or noncombustible, putrescible or non-putrescible solid or 
liquid wastes. 
2.7  Sanitary facilities means toilet, privies, lavateries, urinals, drinking fountains, and the service 
building or rooms provided for installation and use of these units. 
2.8  Nuisance: The following shall be defined as nuisances: 
a. Any public nuisance known at common law or in equity Jurisprudence; 
b. An attractive nuisance known at common law or in equity jurisprudence; 
c. Whatever is dangerous to human life or detrimental to health; 
d. Overcrowding an area or a room with occupants; 
e. Insufficient ventilation, illumination, or heating; 
f. Inadequate or insanitary sewerage or plumbing facilities; 
g. Insanitary conditions; 
h. Whatever renders air, food or drink unwholesome or detrimental to the health of 
human beings. 
3.0  ACCESS 
3.1  Each group gathering area shall be provided with convenient and safeaccess for the Ingress and 
egress of pedrestrian and vehicular traffic. 
4.0  GROUNDS 
4.1  Each group gathering area shall be well drained and so arranged as to provide sufficient space for 
people assembled, vehicles, sanitary facilities, and appurtenant equipment. 
4.2  Trees, underbrush, large rocks and other natural features shall be left intact and undisturbed 
whenever possible. Natural vegetative cover shall be retained, protected and maintained so as to 
facilitate drainage, prevent erosion and to preserve the scenic attributes. 
4.3  The grounds shall be maintained free from dust wherever possible, accumulations of refuse, and 
other health and safety hazards constituting a nuisance as defined. 
4.4  The size of the group gathering should be limited to the number of persons for which the facilities are 
designed to accommodate and provisions should be made to prevent people in excess of the maximum 
permissible number from gaining access to the group gathering area. 
4.5  Illumination shall be provided, at night, to protect the safety of the persons at the assembly. The 
assembly area shall be adequately lighted but shall not unreasonably reflect beyond the assembly area 
boundries, unless adjacent properties are uninhabited. Light level Intensities shall be at least five foot 
candles. 
4.6   
a.  On site parking space, shall be provided where presons arrive at the group gathering area by 
vehicular means.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
3 
b.  Service road and parking spaces shall be so located as to permit convenient and safe 
movement of vehicular and pedestrian traffic and free passage of emergency vehicles. 
c.  Width of service roads shall be not less than the following: one traffic lane - 11 feet; two traffic 
lanes - 22 feet; parallel parking lane - 7 feet, 
d.  Adequate parking space shall be provided. Adequate parking space Is generally construed to 
mean at the rate of at lease one parking space for every four persons and the density 
shall not exceed 100 passenger cars or 30 buses per usable acre. 
4.7  At least 20 square feet per person shall be provided at the site for daytime assemblage and at least 
40 square feet per person shall be provided for overnight assemblage. 
5.0  WATER SUPPLY 
5.1  An adequate, safe, supply of potable water, meeting requirements of Colorado Department of Health, 
shall be provided. 
5.2  Where water is distributed under pressure and flush toilets are used,. the water supply system shall 
deliver water at normal operating pressures (20 pounds per square Inch minimum) to all fixtures at the 
rate of at least 30 gallons per person per day. 
5.3  Where water is not available under pressure, and non-water carriage toilets are used, at least 3 
gallons of water per person per day shall be provided for drinking and lavatory purposes. 
5.4  Transported water shall be obtained from an approved source, stored and dispensed in an approved 
manner. Such stored water shall meet the state standards for drinking water supplied to the public. 
6.0  SANITARY FACILITIES 
6.1  Sanitary facilities shall be provided and installed in the minimum numbers required by the provisions 
of the Colorado Technical Plumbing Code. 
6.2  Where water under pressure is not available, equivalent facilities shall be provided and Installed in 
accordance with requirements of Colorado Department of Health and the Colorado Water Pollution 
Control Commission. 
6.3  Required sanitary facilities shall be provided In the following numbers: 
a.  Toilets - separate for each sex at the rate of two for the first 100 persons and one for each 
additional 100 persons or fractional part thereof. 
b. Urinals - urinals (men's) and sanistands (women's) may be substituted for up to one-third of the 
required number of toilets, 24 Inches of trough urinals, in a men's room shall be 
considered the equivalent of one urinal or toilet. 
6.4  Required sanitary facilities shall be conveniently accessible and well identified. 
6.5  Each toilet shall have a continuous supply of toilet paper. 
6.6  Service buildings or rooms housing required plumbing fixtures, shall be constructed of easily 
cleanable, non-absorbent materials. The buildings, service rooms and required plumbing fixtures located 
therein shall be maintained in good repaid and in a clean and sanitary condition. 
6.7  Water points or drinking fountains, shall be conveniently accessible and well identified.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
4 
6.8  Waste water shall be discharged to approved drains to prevent contamination and nuisance 
conditions. Drinking fountains shall be of approved types and common drinking cups shall be prohibited. 
7.0  EXCRETA AND LIQUID WASTE DISPOSAL 
7.1  Facilities shall be provided and property maintained for the disposal or treatment and disposal of 
excrete and liquid wastes. 
7.2  Where a public sewer system is available, all plumbing fixtures and ail building sewers shall be 
connected thereto. If a public sewer system is not available, a private sewage disposal facility meeting the 
regulations of the Colorado Water Pollution Control Commission shall be installed and connected to all 
plumbing fixtures and building sewers. Provided, however, that if neither of the above is available, and if 
the gathering does not exceed a period of seven days, sewage disposal may be by burial at a depth not 
less than 12 inches below the ground surface, and at a distance not less than 100 feet from any surface 
waters. Adequate precautions shall be taken to prevent the intrusion of such sewage and waste water 
upon the environment in a manner which is unhealthful, injurious to the environment, or otherwise 
degrading to the environment. 
8.0  REFUSE DISPOSAL 
8.1  The storage, collection, transportation and disposal of refuse shall be so conducted as to prevent 
odor, Insect, rodent and other nuisance conditions. 
8.2  Two and one-half cubic feet of covered watertight metal or plastic refuse containers, sufficient to 
contain all the solid wastes, shall be provided for each 10 persons. Refuse containers shall be readily 
accessible. 
8.3  All refuse shall be collected from the assembly area at least once each day of the assembly and 
disposed of at a lawful disposal site. 
8.4  The grounds and immediate surrounding properties shall be cleaned of refuse within 24 hours 
following an assembly. 
9.0  VECTOR CONTROL 
9.1   
a.  Insects, rodents and other vermin shall be controlled by proper sanitary practices, 
extermination, or other safe and effective control methods. 
b.  Where necessary, animal ecto-parasites, and other disease transmitting and nuisance insects 
shall be controlled. 
10.0  SAFETY 
10.1  Where an electrical system is installed, it shall be installed and maintained in accordance with 
provisions of the National Electrical Cods. 
10.2  The grounds, buildings, and related facilities shall be maintained and used in a manner as to 
prevent firs and in accordance with applicable local fire prevention regulations. 
10.3  Internal and external traffic and security control shall meet requirements of the applicable local law 
enforcement agency. 
11.0  MEDICAL

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
5 
11.1  Emergency medical services shall be provided under the supervision of a licensed physician. 
11.2  An enclosed covered structure shall be provided for emergency medical treatment and care. 
11.3  Adequate medical supplies and medicines shall be provided and made available for emergency 
treatment of sick and injured persons. 
11.4  Adequate vehicles suitable for emergency use, shall be available. 
11.5  Telephone or radio communications shall be provided end kept available for emergency purposes. 
12.0  FOOD SERVICE 
12.1  Food service activities, not required to have a restaurant license under Article 44 of Title 12, CRS 
1972, shall conduct food service operations in conformance to the physical and operational requirements 
of the Colorado Restaurant Sanitation Laws, Rules and Regulations. 
13.0  MISCELLANEOUS-OPERATIONAL 
13.1   
a.  Reasonable precautions shall be taken to insure that the sound of the assembly will not carry 
unreasonably beyond the boundries of the assembly area. 
b.  The noise level at the perimeters of the site shall not exceed 70 decibles on the A scale of a 
sound level meter meeting specifications on the American National Standards Institute 
unless the assembly area Is remotely located and surrounding adjacent properties are 
uninhabited. 
13.2  The operator shall be responsible for meeting the provisions of these standards and regulations to 
serve the maximum number of people to be assembled, for operational maintenance, and for the clean, 
safe and sanitary condition of the grounds, sanitary facilities and other service equipment. 
13.3  Each person attending an assembly shall be responsible for proper use of the grounds, sanitary 
facilities, and other service equipment provided for the assembly. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History
