---
id: "6_CCR_1014-5"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "6 CCR 1014-5"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=11457&fileName=6%20CCR%201014-5&type=pdf"
---

#### 6_CCR_1014-5. 6 CCR 1014-5

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
Colorado State Board of Health 
OFFICE OF HEALTH EQUITY RULES FOR THE HEALTH DISPARITIES AND COMMUNITY GRANT 
PROGRAM 
6 CCR 1014-5 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Adopted by the Board of Health on March 20, 2024, effective May 15, 2024 
1.1 
Definitions 
(1) 
“Commission” means the Health Equity Commission that, pursuant to Section 25-4-2206, C.R.S., 
advises the department on alignment, education, and capacity building for state and local health 
programs and community-based organizations for the promotion of health equity and eliminating 
health disparities. 
(2) 
“Grant Program” means the Health Disparities and Community Grant Program created in Section 
25-4-2203, C.R.S. to provide financial support for statewide initiatives that address prevention, 
early detection, and treatment of cancer and cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases in 
underrepresented populations and to positively affect social determinants of health to reduce the 
risk of future disease and exacerbating health disparities in underrepresented populations. 
(3) 
“Grant Program priorities” means areas of emphasis for grantees as determined for the grant 
cycle. 
(4) 
“Office of Health Equity” means the office administering the Grant Program. 
(5) 
“State Board” means the Colorado State Board of Health. 
1.2 
Procedures for Grant Application 
(1) 
Grant Application Contents. 
(a) 
At a minimum, all applications shall be submitted to the department in accordance with 
these rules and shall contain the following information: 
(i) 
A description of the specific needs of the community or population to be served. 
(ii) 
A description of: 
(A) 
How the application meets at least one of the following program criteria: 
1. 
For money allocated to the Grant Program pursuant to section 
24-22-117(2)(d)(III), related to the prevention, early detection, 
and treatment of the cancer, cardiovascular, and pulmonary 
diseases, at least one of the following: 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-5 
Colorado State Board of Health 
 
2 
(a) 
Translating evidence-based strategies regarding the 
prevention and early detection of cancer, cardiovascular 
disease, and chronic pulmonary disease into practical 
application healthcare, public health, workplace and 
community settings. 
(b) 
Providing appropriate diagnosis and treatment services 
for anyone who has abnormalities discovered in 
screening and early detection programs funded through 
this initiative. 
(c) 
Implementing education programs for the public and 
healthcare providers regarding the prevention, early 
detection and treatment of cancer, cardiovascular 
disease and chronic pulmonary disease. 
(d) 
Providing evidence-based strategies to overcome health 
disparities in the prevention and early detection of 
cancer, cardiovascular disease and chronic pulmonary 
disease. 
(e) 
Providing population-based prevention work focused on 
influencing social determinants of health to advance 
health equity for underrepresented populations. 
2. 
For any other money allocated to the Grant Program: 
(a) 
Providing population-based prevention work focused on 
influencing social determinants of health to advance 
health equity for underrepresented populations and 
(b) 
Applicants for organizational planning grants to receive 
grant money to reduce health disparities in 
underrepresented communities through policy and 
systems changes regarding the social determinants of 
health shall demonstrate at least one of the following: 
(i) 
Specifications of strategic planning to achieve 
health equity; 
(ii) 
Building the capacity of staff and volunteers; 
(iii) 
Technical training and assistance within the 
community organizations, which may include a 
single applicant working with multiple community 
organizations; 
(iv) 
How the impact on the community by the 
applicant will be evaluated. 
(B) 
For grants meeting the criteria of Section (1)(a)(A)(1) related to the 
prevention, early detection, and treatment of the cancer, cardiovascular, 
and pulmonary diseases, how the application addresses the prevention, 
early detection, and treatment of cancer, cardiovascular disease, or 
chronic pulmonary diseases, in underrepresented populations.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-5 
Colorado State Board of Health 
 
3 
(C) 
How the application meets the Grant Program priorities identified for the 
grant cycle. 
(iii) 
A written evaluation plan. 
(2) 
Procedures and timelines for Grant Application. 
(a) 
Grant applications may be solicited on dates determined by the department. 
1.3 
Criteria for Selecting Entities 
(1) 
The following criteria shall be used for selecting potential grantees: 
(a) 
The applicant submits a completed application in accordance with the requirements in 
Section 1.2 and as indicated in the formal state solicitation; 
(b) 
For Grant Program applications meeting the criteria of Section (1)(a)(A)(1) of prevention, 
early detection, and treatment of cancer, cardiovascular, and pulmonary disease, the 
applicant does not use grant monies to supplant funding for existing programs; 
(c) 
The applicant has the capacity to adequately administer and implement the grant. 
(d) 
For any other money allocated to the Grant Program: the applicant must work towards 
reducing health disparities in underrepresented communities through policy and systems 
changes regarding the social determinants of health. 
(2) 
The Commission shall appoint a review committee to review the applications received and make 
recommendations to the Commission regarding the entities that may receive grants, the amounts 
of the grants, and the duration of the grant, which cannot exceed five (5) years. The Commission 
shall finalize the recommendations for funding and provide them to the State Board. The State 
Board shall ensure that awards are consistent with the purpose of the Grant Program. 
1.4 
Responsibilities of Grantees 
(1) 
Participate in the program evaluation and submit progress reports, including, but not limited to, 
the following: 
(a) 
Written evaluation plan at the inception of the program; 
(b) 
Progress reports as specified in the state contract; 
(c) 
Evaluation updates and final evaluation report as specified in the state contract. 
(2) 
Grantees who fail to comply with Grant Program requirements may be terminated from the Grant 
Program for non-performance and potentially denied future funding opportunities. 
(3) 
The monies shall not be used for the purposes of lobbying as defined in Section 24-6- 
301 
(3.5) (a), C.R.S. or to support or oppose any ballot issue or ballot question. 
1.5 
Grant Program Effectiveness 
(1) 
The Office of Health Equity and the State Board shall determine the criteria for evaluating the 
effectiveness of the programs that receive grants, and each grantee shall submit a final report 
utilizing the evaluation criteria at the end of each grant cycle.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1014-5 
Colorado State Board of Health 
 
4 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 03/02/2014. 
Entire rule emer. rule eff. 10/21/2021. 
Entire rule eff. 02/14/2022. 
Rules 1.2(1)(a)(ii)(A)2.(b)(iii), 1.5(1) eff. 05/15/2024.
