---
id: "6_CCR_1010-12"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "6 CCR 1010-12"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=1466&fileName=6%20CCR%201010-12&type=pdf"
---

#### 6_CCR_1010-12. 6 CCR 1010-12

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
MOBILE HOME PARKS 
6 CCR 1010-12 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
______________________________________________________________________ 
1.1  ADMINISTRATION 
1.1  AUTHORITY:  Sections 25-1-107 (1) (a) (d) (m) and 25-1-108 (1) (c ) (I) Colorado Revised Statutes 
1973, as amended. 
1.2  ADOPTED:  October 16, 1974 
1.3  EFFECTIVE DATE:  January 1, 1975 
1.4  PURPOSE:  The purpose of these “SanitaryStandards and Regulations”  is to provide minimum 
requirements for the protection of the health and safety of the occupants of mobile home parks, 
and the general public. 
1.5  APPLICATION : 
a.  The provisions of these  “SanitaryStandards and Regulations”  are applicable to the 
maintenance, sanitation, occupancy, and use of mobile home parks, as defined. 
b.  These regulations shall not limit the powers and duties of local governments to issue  such 
orders and adopt such rules and regulations as stringent as or more stringent than the 
provisions contained herein; as may be necessary for the local public health and safety. 
2.0  DEFINITIONS 
For the purpose of these regulations: 
2.1  Accessory Structure:  Any awning, cabana, ramada, storage cabinet, carport, or porch established for 
use by the occupants. 
2.2  Approved:  In conformance with applicable government codes and ordinances and with recognized 
National Standards of technical or scientific organizations. 
2.3  Awning:  Any shade structure, supported by posts or columns or partially supported by a mobile 
home and installed, erected, or used on a mobile home lot. 
2.4  Cabana:  Any portable, demountable, or permanent room, enclosure or other building, erected or 
constructed adjacent to a mobile home and used for habitation by an occupant of the mobile 
home. 
2.5  Dependent Mobile Home:  A mobile home that has no toilet, lavatory, or bathing facilities and is 
dependent upon a service building for toilet, lavatory and bathing facilities. 
2.6  Independent Mobile Home:  A mobile home that has toilet, lavatory, and bathing facilities. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
2 
2.7  Mobile Home:  A movable or relocatable dwelling unit, transported on its running gear to a mobile 
home lot, and installed either with or without a foundation. 
2.8  Mobile Home Lot:  A designated portion of a mobile home park designed for the placement of a 
single mobile home and accessory structures for the exclusive use of the occupants, and is 
exclusive of streets, walks, and other common use areas in a mobile home park and county, city, 
or town streets, alleys, walks, or other public easements, and adjacent private properties. 
2.9  Mobile Home Park (Park):  That area or site upon which is located two or more mobile homes or 
movable structures maintained, occupied, or used for human habitation for periods exceeding 90 
days except a residential subdivision designed exclusively for and occupied only by mobile 
homes, in which the mobile homes and the land are owned by the occupants. 
2.10  Mobile Home Stand:  That part of an individual mobile home lot used for the placement of the 
mobile home. 
2.11  Ramada:  Any free-standing roof or shade structure installed, erected, or used above  a mobile 
home or any portion thereof. 
2.12  Service Building:  A structure housing a toilet, lavatory, bath, laundry, service sink and other such 
sanitary facilities as may be required. 
2.13  Sewage:  A combination of liquid wastes which may include chemicals, house wastes, human 
excreta, animal or vegetable matter in suspension or solution, and other solids in suspension or 
solution, and which is discharged from a dealing, building, or other establishment. 
3.0  GENERAL 
3.1  The park shall be drained, graded and surfaced where necessary to facilitate drainage, and prevent 
earth movement, and shall be free from depressions in which water collects and stagnates. 
3.2  The park shall be maintained in a clean sanitary condition at all times.  Grasses, weeds, and other 
such vegetation non considered as part of the ornamental landscape, shall not exceed twelve 
(12) inches in height. 
3.3  The park shall be illuminated during the hours of darkness to permit the safe movement of individuals 
and vehicles. 
3.4  A mobile home shall not be occupied for dwelling purposes in a park unless it is properly placed on a 
conforming mobile home lot and connected to all utility services including water, sewage, 
electrical, or gas.  Utility service connections shall be located on the lot served. 
3.5  Safe and convenient access shall be provided for pedestrian and vehicular traffic and emergency 
vehicles at all times. 
3.6  Vehicular streets shall be clearly identified, and shall be constructed and maintained to allow free 
movement of emergency and service vehicles at all times, and surfaced when necessary to 
minimize mud and dust.  All newly constructed vehicular streets shall be of a minimum width of 
twenty (20) feet where no on-street parking is permitted on one side only; twenty-eight (28) feet 
where no on-street parking is permitted on one side only; and thirty-six (36) feet where on-street 
parking is permitted on both sides. 
3.7  Each mobile home lot shall have unobstructed access to a park street.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
3 
3.8  Pedestrian walks shall be provided along park streets and from park streets to individual homes and 
all community and service facilities where the lack of such walks constitute a safety hazard. 
3.9  The owner of the park shall be responsible for the supervision, operation and maintenance of the 
park.  The owner or his designee shall be available or on call at all times in event of emergency. 
3.10  A copy of these standards shall be kept available by the park manager in the park area at all times 
for use as guidelines by the park occupants and the park manager. 
4.0  MOBILE HOME LOTS 
4.1  Each mobile home in a park shall be clearly identified by numbers or letters visible  from the access 
street, by day or night. 
4.2  A mobile home shall not abut less than ten feet from its longest side or three feet on its shortest side 
respectively to a mobile home, building, fence, or other obstruction. 
4.3  The mobile home stand shall provide a sound base for the structural support of the mobile home to 
prevent shifting, heaving, or uneven settling. 
4.4  The mobile home shall be properly installed and stabilized so as to prevent accidental movement or 
movement by natural causes or forces. Where strong winds are common, the stand shall be 
provided with approved anchors for the attachment of  tie-downs and the mobile home shall be 
tied down to prevent uplift, sliding, or overturning. 
4.5  The lot and stand shall be kept clean and free of refuse and hazardous or noxious materials. 
4.6  Where skirting is provided, readily operable doors or access panels shall be installed to permit 
convenient access to the water, sewer, and gas connections. 
5.0  UTILITIES 
5.1  All utility services shall be available in a park, and shall be installed in a workman-like manner, and in 
compliance with all applicable codes and standards.  Mobile homes in such parks shall have 
adequate means of heating and lighting, installed in accordance with applicable codes and 
standards. 
5.2  All mobile homes, service buildings, and other facilities shall be provided at all times with an 
adequate supply of water, and shall be served by a water system designed, constructed, and 
protected in accordance with Colorado Department of Health recommendations:  Standards for 
Quality of Water Supplied to the Public , and applicable provisions of the current edition of the  
Colorado Department of Health Technical Plumbing Code .and section 25-1-114 (I) (h), C.R.S. 
1973. 
5.3  The water distribution system shall be so constructed that no more than twenty-five (25) mobile home 
lots will be without water as a result of water service line breakages or repairs within the park. 
5.4  Where the water supply is subject to service interruption, the occupants shall be notified in advance 
of such interruptions if possible. 
5.5  Where the cause of the water service interruption occurs within the park and the interruption exceeds 
a period of twelve (12) hours, standby or auxiliary equipment shall be used to provide temporary 
emergency water supply for the occupants.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
4 
5.6  Water service lines, including valves, riser pipes and connections shall be installed in compliance 
with the  Colorado Technical Plumbing Code .  Every mobile home lot shall be provided with an 
individual water service pipe and a riser pipe in conformance with the  Colorado Technical 
Plumbing Code .  The riser pipe shall extend at least four (4) inches vertically above ground 
unless it is shielded by a riser protector and casement extending above ground and fitted with a 
lid.  The riser shall terminate with two threaded valved outlets which provide connections for the 
mobile home water piping and for a garden hose.  The mobile home water outlet shall be securely 
capped when a mobile home does not occupy the lot. 
5.7  Where a public sewer system is available, all plumbing fixtures, building sewers, and mobile home 
park sewers shall be connected thereto.  If a public sewer system is not available, a private 
sewage collection and disposal facility meeting requirements of the Colorado Water Quality 
Control Commission, the Colorado Department of Health, and other applicable local government 
sewage disposal requirements, shall be installed and all plumbing fixtures, building sewers, and 
mobile home park sewers connected thereto.  Sewage shall not be deposited upon the surface of 
the ground. 
5.8  Sewage collection lines shall be laid in trenches of sufficient depth to be free of breakage from traffic, 
ground movement, or freezing. 
5.9  Sewer lines shall be constructed of approved materials with adequate vents, water-tight joints, and 
sufficient cleanouts. 
5.10  Sewers shall be at a grade sufficient to insure a mean velocity of two feet per second when flowing 
full.  The system shall be designed for minimum flow rate of at least 300 gallons per day per 
mobile home lot.  Horizontal and vertical drainage lines connecting with other horizontal drainage 
lines  shall enter through 45 degree “y”  branches or other combinations of equivalent sweep.  
Manholes or cleanouts shall be provided at the upper end of each main sewer line and manholes 
shall be provided at intersections of two or more sewer lines, at changes in grade or alignment 
more  than 45 °  and at intervals of not more than 400 feet. 
5.11  Each mobile home lot shall be provided with a sewer branch line and riser pipe at least four inches 
inside diameter.  The branch line shall be installed with a uniform slope of at least 1/4 inch per 
linear foot and shall be properly trapped and vented when all fixtures in the mobile home are not 
trapped and vented.  The branch line shall terminate at a riser pipe of at least four inches inside 
diameter, which extends vertically four inches above ground elevation, or has the ground graded 
from the riser pipe rim.  When necessary, the riser pipe shall be protected by a concrete collar 
four inches thick and 12 inches in diameter. 
5.12  The sewer service connection shall be equipped with standard screw, ring, or clamp-type fittings or 
adapters so that water-tight, and tamper-proof connections can be obtained at the mobile home 
drain outlet and sewer riser pipe.  The connection shall be of approved semi-rigid, noncollapsible, 
corrosion-resistant pipe  having a smooth interior surface and an inside diameter of not less than 
three inches. 
5.13  The sewer service connection shall be installed and maintained with a uniform grade not less than 
one-quarter inch per foot and shall be no longer than necessary to connect the mobile home drain 
and sewer riser pipe.  Dependent mobile homes with drain outlets less than three inches inside 
diameter shall be connected with reducers and screw or clamp-type fittings. 
5.14  When a mobile home does not occupy the mobile home stand, the sewer riser pipe shall be capped 
with a water tight cap or plug. 
6.0  REFUSE

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
5 
6.1  The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in a mobile home park shall be so conducted as to 
control odors, rodents, insects, accidents, fire hazards, air pollution, or other nuisance conditions. 
6.2  Durable, washable, and non-absorbent metal or plastic containers with tight-fitting lids shall be 
provided at each mobile home lot or at a central storage area conveniently located not more than 
200 feet from any mobile home lot.  Refuse containers shall be provided at the rate of at least one 
30 gallon (4 cu. ft.) container for each mobile home lot or an equivalent storage capacity in 
centralized storage facilities. 
6.3  The number of containers used and the frequency of collection shall be sufficient to prevent over-
filled containers.  Refuse shall be routinely collected and removed from the premises not less 
than once weekly.  Refuse shall be disposed of at a lawful disposal site in accordance with 
requirements of the Colorado Solid Wastes Disposal Sites and Facilities Act. 
7.0  INSECT AND RODENT CONTROL 
7.1  Rodents and insects shall be controlled by approved sanitary practices, vermin-proofing of buildings, 
extermination, and other control methods. 
8.0  SANITARY FACILITIES 
8.1  In every mobile home park accommodating  dependent  mobile homes, sanitary facilities shall be 
provided as follows: 
a.  Toilets - One toilet for each sex for every 15 dependent mobile home lots or fractional part 
thereof. 
b.  Urinals - Urinals may be substituted for up to one-third of the required number of toilets; 
twenty-four inches of  trough urinals shall be considered the equivalent of one urinal. 
c.  Lavatories - One lavatory for each sex for every 15 dependent mobile home lots or fractional 
part thereof.  Laundry tubs, kitchen sinks, and bath tubs shall not be acceptable 
substitutes for lavatories. 
d.  Bathing or shower facilities - One for each sex for each 15 dependent mobile home lots for 
fractional part thereof. 
8.2  Water hydrants shall be provided to wash service buildings, walkways, passageways and other 
common use areas. 
8.3  Drinking fountains, when provided, shall not be located in service rooms or connected to water 
faucets or lavatories.  Drinking fountains shall be the approved angle-jet above the bowl rim type 
with adequate water pressure. 
9.0  SERVICE BUILDINGS ACCOMMODATING DEPENDENT MOBILE HOMES 
9.1  Service buildings and rooms housing required sanitary facilities in parks accommodating  dependent  
mobile homes, shall be constructed of easily cleanable, non-absorbent materials, maintained in 
good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.  They shall be conveniently located at a 
distance of not less than 10 feet from any mobile home and within 300 feet of any dependent 
mobile home served. 
9.2  Separate rooms containing required plumbing fixtures shall be provided for each sex.  If Located in 
the same building, they shall be separated by a solid wall extending from floor to ceiling and shall 
be clearly marked for “Men”  or “Women” .

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
6 
9.3  The floors of service buildings shall have a smooth, impermeable and easily cleanable surface, 
sloped to drain.  Floor drains, properly trapped, shall be provided in all shower baths and shower 
rooms to remove  waste water  and to facilitate cleaning.  The walls and partitions shall have a 
smooth, nonabsorbent, light colored, easily cleanable surface extending to a height of four feet in 
toilet rooms and six feet in shower rooms. 
9.4  Rooms in service buildings shall have a ceiling height of not less than 7 2 feet.  In rooms with sloping 
ceilings, the required ceiling height shall be provided in at least 50 percent of the room and no 
portion of any room having a ceiling height of less than five feet shall be considered as 
contributing to the minimum required areas. 
9.5  Service rooms shall be provided with light and ventilation by means of windows or by artificial light 
and mechanical ventilation. The window area in each service room shall be equivalent to at least 
10 percent of the floor area with at least one half of the  required window area in each service 
room, an approved mechanical ventilation system may be installed which will provide at least 5 
air changes per hour, be vented directly to the outside, and be connected to the electrical lighting 
system. 
9.6  When necessary for exclusion of flies, mosquitoes and other insects, exterior openings of service 
buildings shall be protected with fly screening of not less than 16 mesh per square inch unless 
other approved protective devices are provided. Doors shall be provided with self-closing devices. 
9.7  Exterior doors in service buildings shall be provided with a landing which has a depth and width not 
less than the door opening. 
9.8  Each service room shall have at least one double convenience outlet adjacent to lavatories and one 
ceiling light fixture to provide 30 foot candles at lavatory level.  At least one light fixture, operated 
by a switch, shall be provided at each entrance and shall be lighted during hours of darkness 
unless the yard lighting provides light levels of at least 5 foot candles. 
9.9  Service buildings shall be provided with approved heating facilities properly installed, maintained in a 
safe working condition, and capable of providing and maintaining a room temperature of 68 °  F. 
9.10  Toilets and showers shall be partitioned so they are individually accessible.  Each toilet and shower 
compartment shall have a self-closing door, except that showers may be equipped with a 
waterproof curtain. 
9.11  Toilet space shall be not less than 30 inches in width, and the free space in front of the toilet shall 
be not less than 24 inches. 
9.12  Shower stalls shall be not less than 30 inches by 30 inches in area and shall be constructed to 
prevent water flowing into the dressing space.  Shower floors shall be impervious and skid 
resistant or provided with a non-slip impervious mat.  Wooden racks (duck boards) are prohibited.  
Dry dressing room space, screened from view and equivalent to the size of the shower floor area, 
shall be provided adjacent to bathing facilities and shall be equipped with clothes hooks and 
benches. 
9.13  Hot and cold water under pressure shall be supplied to all required plumbing fixtures except that 
cold water only shall be supplied to water closets.  The system shall be designed to prevent 
discharge of water in excess of 120 °  F at the shower heads.  The water heating facilities shall 
have the capacity to supply hot water (140 ° ) at the minimum rate of three gallons per hour per 
each dependent mobile home lot.  Such facilities shall be of approved types and shall be properly 
installed and maintained. 
9.14  Plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in good working order and in a clean and sanitary condition.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
7 
9.15  Toilet paper, soap, roller type or single service towels, and trash receptacles shall be provided in all 
common use or centralized toilet and lavatory facilities.  The use of common towels is prohibited. 
9.16  If service buildings are kept locked, the operator shall provide a key for dependent mobile home 
occupants. 
9.17  Clothes drying areas or mechanical dryers shall be provided for use with laundry facilities. 
9.18  Plumbing fixtures shall be installed in accordance with provisions of the 1972 edition of the  
Colorado Technical Plumbing Code . 
9.19  Swimming pools shall be operated and maintained in accordance with  Colorado Department of 
Health Regulations and Standards Governing Swimming Pools  . 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History
