---
id: "6_CCR_1018-1"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "6 CCR 1018-1"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=10771&fileName=6%20CCR%201018-1&type=pdf"
---

#### 6_CCR_1018-1. 6 CCR 1018-1

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
Clean Fleet Enterprise Board 
REGULATION 1 – CLEAN FLEET ENTERPRISE FEES 
6 CCR 1018-1 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
1.1 
Authority 
The Clean Fleet Enterprise is authorized to promulgate rules to set the clean fleet per ride fee and the 
clean fleet retail delivery fee at or below the amounts delineated in statute, Section 25-7.5-103(6)(h), (7) 
and (8), C.R.S. 
1.2 
Definitions 
1.2.1 
“Carshare ride” has the same meaning as set forth in Section 25-7.5-102(3), C.R.S. 
1.2.2 
“Electric Motor Vehicle” has the same meaning as set forth in Section 25-7.5-102(8), C.R.S. 
1.2.3 
“Inflation” has the same meaning as set forth in Section 25-7.5-102(13), C.R.S. 
1.2.4 
“Prearranged ride” has the same meaning as set forth in Section 40-10.1-602(2), C.R.S. 
1.2.5 
“Retail delivery” has the same meaning as set forth in Section 25-7.5-102(21), C.R.S. 
1.2.6 
“Rider” has the same meaning as set forth in Section 40-10.1-602(5), C.R.S. 
1.2.7 
“Tangible personal property” has the same meaning as set forth in Section 39-26-102(15), C.R.S. 
1.2.8 
“Transportation network company” has the same meaning as set forth in Section 40-10.1-602(3), 
C.R.S. 
1.2.9 
“Transportation network company driver” has the same meaning as set forth in Section 40-10.1-
602(4), C.R.S. 
1.2.10 “Zero emissions motor vehicle” or “ZEV” has the same meaning as set forth in Section 25-7.5-
102(29), C.R.S. 
1.3 
Fees 
1.3.1 
Fees Effective July 1, 2022 through June 30, 2023 
1.3.1.1 Effective July 1, 2022, the clean fleet per ride fee is three and three-quarters cents for 
each prearranged ride that is a carshare ride or for which the transportation network 
company driver transports the rider in a zero emissions motor vehicle. 
1.3.1.2 Effective July 1, 2022, the clean fleet per ride fee is seven and one-half cents for every 
other prearranged ride that is a carshare ride or for which the transportation network 
company driver transports the rider. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1018-1 
Clean Fleet Enterprise Board 
 
2 
1.3.1.3 Effective July 1, 2022, the clean fleet retail delivery fee is five and three-tenths cents for 
retail deliveries of purchased tangible personal property. 
1.3.2 
Fees Effective July 1, 2023 
1.3.2.1 Effective July 1, 2023, the clean fleet per ride fee is four cents for each prearranged ride 
that is a carshare ride or for which the transportation network company driver transports 
the rider in a zero emissions motor vehicle. 
1.3.2.2 Effective July 1, 2023, the clean fleet per ride fee is seven and three-quarters cents for 
every other prearranged ride that is a carshare ride or for which the transportation 
network company driver transports the rider. 
1.3.2.3 Effective July 1, 2023, the clean fleet retail delivery fee is five and one-half cents for retail 
deliveries of purchased tangible personal property. 
1.3.3 
Starting in 2024, for fees effective July 1, 2024, or thereafter, fees will be imposed at the 
maximum amount that is the maximum amount for the prior state fiscal year adjusted for inflation 
consistent with Section 25-7.5-103(7)(c), C.R.S., for the clean fleet per ride fees and Section 25-
7.5-103(8)(c), C.R.S., for the clean fleet retail delivery fee. 
1.3.4 
The Clean Fleet Enterprise will notify the Colorado Department of Revenue of the amount of the 
fees no later than March 15 of the calendar year in which the state fiscal year begins. 
2.1 
Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose 
2.1.1 
Adopted February 24, 2022 
Basis and Purpose 
Senate Bill 21-260 (SB21-260) Sustainability of the Transportation System created new sources of 
dedicated funding and new state enterprises. The intent of the legislation was to preserve, improve and 
expand existing transportation infrastructure, develop the modernized infrastructure needed to support 
the widespread adoption of electric motor vehicles, and mitigate environmental and health impacts of the 
transportation system use. 
To accomplish these goals, the legislation established a Clean Fleet Enterprise (CFE) governed by a nine 
(9) member board. The CFE is an enterprise and government owned business within the Colorado 
Department of Public Health and Environment (CDPHE) for the purpose of collecting fee revenue and 
using the fees to incentivize support and accelerate the adoption of electric motor vehicles in motor 
vehicle fleets as well as other specified activities. The CFE is a Type 1 transfer agency and as such the 
Legislature specifically vested the CFE with the authority to promulgate rules for the sole purpose of 
setting the amounts of fees called for in the legislation in addition to other activities. The fees the 
enterprise is required to impose include the clean fleet per ride fee and the clean fleet retail delivery fee. 
Per statute, for the clean fleet per ride fee, the board can set a maximum fee of $0.0375 cents for any 
prearranged ride in a zero emission vehicle (ZEV) and $0.075 cents per prearranged ride in a non-ZEV 
vehicle. The maximum fee that the board can set for the clean fleet retail delivery fee is $0.053 cents. The 
fees delineated in the rule mirror the fee amounts set in statute. 
The CFE shall notify the Department of Revenue (DOR) of the amount of the clean fleet per ride fee to be 
collected for rides requested and accepted during each state fiscal year no later than March 15 of the 
calendar year in which the state fiscal year begins. The CFE shall also notify DOR of the amount of the 
clean fleet retail delivery fee to be collected for retail deliveries of tangible personal property purchased 
during each state fiscal year no later than March 15 of the calendar year in which the state fiscal year 
begins.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1018-1 
Clean Fleet Enterprise Board 
 
3 
Stakeholder engagement began in December 2021 and continued up to the date of the rulemaking 
hearing, February 24, 2022. The Division met with stakeholders one-on-one and at a public meeting in 
this timeframe. 
Specific Statutory Authority 
The Clean Fleet Enterprise is authorized to promulgate rules to set the clean fleet per ride fee and the 
clean fleet retail delivery fee at or below the amounts delineated in statute, Section 25-7.5-103(6)(h), (7) 
and (8), C.R.S. 
2.1.2 
Adopted March 9, 2023 
Basis and Purpose 
Statute directs “the enterprise to impose the clean fleet per ride fee in a maximum amount that is the 
applicable maximum amount of the prior state fiscal year adjusted for inflation,” Sections 25-7.5-103(7)(c) 
and (8)(c), C.R.S. The purpose of this rulemaking is to implement the inflationary increase provided in 
these statutes. 
When establishing any inflationary increase, Section 25-7.5-103(7)(c)(ii), C.R.S., predicates the 
adjustment to the fees on inflation being positive and cumulative inflation from the last adjustment of the 
fee, when applied to the sum of the current clean fleet per ride fee and the current air pollution mitigation 
per ride fee and rounded to the nearest whole cent, results in an increase of at least one whole cent in the 
total amount of the clean fleet per ride fee and the air pollution mitigation per ride fee. The statute also 
indicates that the amount of cumulative inflation to be applied is the lesser of actual cumulative inflation or 
five percent. 
Inflationary increases to the clean fleet retail delivery fee occur “only if the department of revenue adjusts 
the amount of the retail delivery fee imposed by Section 43-4-218(3), C.R.S., for retail deliveries of 
tangible personal property purchased during the state fiscal year,” Section 25-7.5-103(8)(c), C.R.S. 
When evaluating the inflationary increase, it is anticipated that staff providing services to the Clean Fleet 
Enterprise will consult with the Department of Revenue to determine the maximum fee amount that may 
be imposed, and that the Clean Fleet Enterprise board will receive a presentation on any adjustments to 
the fees prior to notifying the Department of Revenue of the final amounts authorized under rule 1.3.3 and 
Sections 25-7.5-103(7)(c) and (8)(c), C.R.S. Though statute requires that the fee amounts be posted on 
the Department of Revenue website by April 15 of each year, it is also expected that the Clean Fleet 
Enterprise website will include the information or link to the Department of Revenue website as a 
courtesy. 
Specific Statutory Authority 
The Clean Fleet Enterprise is authorized to promulgate rules to set the clean fleet per ride fee and the 
clean fleet retail delivery fee at or below the amounts delineated in statute, Section 25-7.5-103(6)(h), (7) 
and (8), C.R.S. The inflationary increase adjustment is added to implement Section 25-7.5-103(3), C.R.S. 
by setting the fees to be imposed. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 04/14/2022. 
Entire rule eff. 04/30/2023.
