---
id: "6_CCR_1010-6"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "6 CCR 1010-6"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=7490&fileName=6%20CCR%201010-6&type=pdf"
---

#### 6_CCR_1010-6. 6 CCR 1010-6

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING SCHOOLS IN THE STATE OF COLORADO 
6 CCR 1010-6 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Adopted by the Board of Health on January 17, 2018; effective, March 17, 2018. 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
6.1 
Authority……………………………………………………………………………………………... 
3 
6.2 
Scope and Purpose………………………………………………………………………….......... 
3 
6.3 
Applicability...…………………………………………………………………………………......... 
3 
6.4 
Definitions……………………………………………………………………………………………. 
4 
6.5 
Incorporation by Reference………………………………………………………………………. 
7 
6.6 
Compliance Procedures………………………………………………………………………….. 
7 
6.6.1 
Inspections………………………………………………………………………………… 
7 
6.6.2 
Self-Certification…………………………………………………………………………... 
8 
6.6.3 
Compliance Assurance………………………………………………………………….. 
9 
6.6.4 
Variance Procedures…………………………………………………………………….. 
10 
6.7 
Sanitary Facilities and Controls…………………………………………………………………. 
10 
6.7.1 
Water Supply………………………………………………………………………………. 
10 
6.7.2 
Sewage Disposal………………………………………………………………………….. 
11 
6.7.3 
Refuse Disposal…………………………………………………………………………… 
11 
6.7.4 
Insect, Rodent Control and Classroom Animals……………………………………. 
12 
6.7.5 
Plumbing……………………………………………………………………………………. 
14 
6.7.6 
Toilet, Lavatory and Bathing Facilities………………………………………………... 
14 
6.7.7 
Diapering and Toileting………………………………………………………………….. 
16 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
2 
6.8 
Buildings and Grounds……………………………………………………………………………. 
17 
6.8.1 
Buildings……………………………………………………………………………………. 
17 
6.8.2 
Grounds…………………………………………………………………………………….. 
18 
6.9 
Mechanical Requirements………………………………………………………………………… 
18 
6.9.1 
Electrical……………………………………………………………………………………. 
18 
6.9.2 
Lighting……………………………………………………………………………………... 
18 
6.9.3 
Ventilation………………………………………………………………………………….. 
19 
6.9.4 
Heating……………………………………………………………………………………… 
19 
6.10 
Equipment and Supplies………………………………………………………………………….. 
19 
6.11 
Food Service………………………………………………………………………………………… 
20 
6.12 
Laboratory, Industrial, Art, and Vocational Hazards…………………………………………. 
21 
6.12.1 Procedures…………………………………………………………………………………. 
21 
6.12.2 Safety Equipment…………………………………………………………………………. 
22 
6.12.3 Storage Provisions……………………………………………………………………….. 
23 
6.12.4 Ventilation………………………………………………………………………………….. 
24 
6.13 
Health Service……………………………………………………………………………………….. 
25 
APPENDICES…………………………………………………………………………………………………. 
27 
Appendix A – Prohibited Chemicals…………………………………………………………….. 
28 
Appendix B – Restricted Chemicals…………………………………………………………….. 
42 
Appendix C – RestrictedChemicals (Demonstration Use Only)……………………………. 
58

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
3 
6.1 
Authority 
This regulation is adopted pursuant to the authority in Sections 25-1-108(1)(c)(I), 25-1.5-101(1)(a),(h), (k), 
and (l), and 25-1.5-102(1)(a) and (d), Colorado Revised Statute (C.R.S.), and is consistent with the 
requirements of the State Administrative Procedures Act, Section 24-4-101, et seq., C.R.S. 
6.2 
Scope and Purpose 
A. 
This regulation establishes provisions governing: 
1. 
Minimum sanitation requirements for the operation and maintenance of schools; 
2. 
Minimum standards for exposure to toxic materials and environmental conditions in order 
to safeguard the health of the school occupants and the general public; and 
3. 
Investigation, control, abatement and elimination of sources causing epidemic and 
communicable diseases affecting school occupants and public health. 
B. 
This regulation does not apply to: 
1. 
Structures or facilities used by a religious, fraternal, political or social organization 
exclusively for worship, religious instructional or entertainment purposes pertaining to that 
organization; 
2. 
Health facilities licensed by the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment 
under provisions of Section 25-3-101, C.R.S.; and 
3. 
Child care facilities licensed by the Colorado Department of Human Services under 
provisions of Sections 26-6-102(1.5), (2.5)(a), (5), (5.1), (8), (9), (10)(a), C.R.S. 
6.3 
Applicability 
A. 
The provisions of this section shall be applicable to all schools, kindergarten through grade 
twelve, in the State of Colorado. 
1. 
Schools in operation prior to the effective date of these regulations, which would require 
capital expenditures to fully meet all of the design, construction and equipment 
requirements of these regulations, may be deemed acceptable if in good repair and 
capable of being maintained in a sanitary condition and posing no hazard to the health of 
the school occupants. 
2. 
Any school shall have a right to challenge any rule that they feel has been too rigidly 
applied. All challenges must be submitted to the Department in writing, stating the rule 
being challenged and the reason for the challenge. The Department shall hear the 
challenge and make determinations pursuant to the statute. 
3. 
These regulations shall not limit the powers and duties of local governments to issue 
such orders and adopt regulations as stringent as or more stringent than the provisions 
contained herein; as may be necessary for public health. 
B. 
Plans and specifications shall be submitted prior to construction or extensive remodel, when 
required by the Department for the installation of sanitary facilities in existing schools being 
remodeled to increase the occupant load. Submission to the Department does not remove the 
requirements of the Colorado Department of Public Safety, Division of Fire Safety or local building 
authorities regarding submissions of plans and specifications.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
4 
C. 
Swimming pools shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in accordance with the Colorado 
Department of Public Health and Environment Swimming Pool and Mineral Bath Regulations, 5 
CCR 1003-5, and Title 15, Chapter 106, United States Code (USC), Section 8001, et seq. 
6.4 
Definitions 
A. 
For the purpose of these rules and regulations: 
1. 
American National Standards Institute (ANSI) means an accreditation agency that 
certifies adherence to particular standards. 
2. 
Approved means acceptable to the Colorado Department of Public Health and 
Environment or its authorized agents or employees. 
3. 
Bacteria means organisms with a cell wall that can survive inside and outside of the 
body. 
4. 
Campus means a fixed location that includes the grounds and the academic, 
administration, and support structures and facilities. 
5. 
Carbon Monoxide Detector means a device that detects carbon monoxide and that: (a) 
produces a distinct, audible alarm; (b) is listed by a nationally recognized, independent 
product-safety testing and certification laboratory to conform to the standards for carbon 
monoxide alarms issued by such laboratory or any successor standards; (c) plugs into a 
school's electrical outlet and has a battery backup, is wired into a school's electrical 
system and has a battery back-up, or is connected to an electrical system via an 
electrical panel; and (d) may be combined with a smoke detecting device if the combined 
device complies with both Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. (UL) Standards 217 and 2034 
regarding both smoke detecting devices and carbon monoxide alarms and that the 
combined unit produces an alarm, or an alarm and voice signal, in a manner that clearly 
differentiates between the two hazards. 
6. 
Chemical Hygiene Plan means a written program that promotes the safe management of 
chemicals for students, faculty and staff and promotes a culture of safety within the 
school. The plan is comprised of procedures for general laboratory safety, chemical 
management (including procurement, storage, handling, and disposal), and spill 
response. The plan also includes procedures for the operation and testing of laboratory 
chemical hoods and other emergency and safety equipment. 
7. 
Chemical Inventory means a listing of all hazardous chemicals, compounds, and 
substances present in a school and must include the name and the original amount of the 
chemical and the date the material entered the school. Prohibited and restricted 
chemicals should be designated as such in the inventory. The chemical inventory should 
include all hazardous chemicals, compounds, products and wastes that are used or 
generated in the school's maintenance, custodial, and lawn care facilities, science 
laboratories, vocational and industrial arts curriculum, classrooms and administrative 
office(s). Building materials are excluded from this requirement. 
8. 
Chemical Waste means any chemical or laboratory waste discarded or intended to be 
discarded. When chemicals are spent, expired, no longer used or needed they become 
waste. This can also include those chemicals that are partially or wholly crystallized, 
solidified or otherwise changed chemically, or whose containers are damaged or leaking, 
and those chemicals listed as prohibited in Appendix A.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
5 
9. 
Classroom means any room used for instructional purposes by students and/or staff on a 
routine basis. 
10. 
Clean means to be free of dust and debris or to remove dirt and debris by vacuuming or 
scrubbing and washing with soap and water. 
11. 
Contamination means the presence of infectious microorganisms or chemicals at levels 
toxic to human health in or on the body, environmental surfaces including but not limited 
to table tops, chairs, desks, and laboratory working areas, articles of clothing, and/or in 
food or water. 
12. 
Critical Violations means provisions of these rules and regulations that, if deemed in 
noncompliance, are more likely than other violations to contribute to illness or 
environmental hazards that may contribute to a disease outbreak. Critical violations 
include inappropriate clean up of high hazard bodily fluids, lack of handwashing, 
ineffective sanitization and disinfection, ill personnel preparing food, unsafe water supply 
or sewage disposal, pest infestation, food temperature abuse and mismanagement of 
toxic or hazardous materials. 
13. 
Demonstration Use Only Chemicals means a subclass in the restricted chemical list that 
is limited to instructor demonstration. Students may not participate in the handling or 
preparation of restricted chemicals as part of a demonstration. 
14. 
Department means the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment and its 
authorized agents and employees. 
15. 
Disinfect means to eliminate most or all pathogenic microorganisms, with the exception of 
bacterial spores by using effective bactericidal heat or concentration of chemicals which 
are registered with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 
16. 
Drinking Water means water that meets criteria as specified in Section 25-1.5-2, C.R.S., 
and Colorado Primary Drinking Water Regulations, 5 CCR 1002-11. Drinking water is 
traditionally known as “potable water”. Drinking water includes the term “water” except 
where the term used connotes that the water is not potable, such as “boiler water,” “mop 
water,” “rainwater,” “reclaimed water,” “wastewater,” and “nondrinking water”. 
17. 
Easily Cleanable means materials or surfaces that are smooth, durable, and non-
absorbent, such that the soil, filth, and/or unseen contamination can be effectively 
removed by normal cleaning methods. 
18. 
Extensively Remodeled means any structural or other premise change that requires a 
building or construction permit issued by the Colorado Department of Public Safety, 
Division of Fire Safety or the local building authority. Routine maintenance, repairs, or 
cosmetic changes are not defined as extensive remodeling. 
19. 
High Hazard Body Fluids include urine, feces, saliva, blood, nasal discharge, eye 
discharge and injury or tissue discharge. 
20. 
Hazard/Hazardous means a situation or condition where there is a significant potential for 
injury, illness or death. (e.g., use or exposure to potentially hazardous chemicals, 
equipment, devices).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
6 
21. 
Imminent Health Hazard means a substantial danger to public health or safety, or a 
significant threat or danger to health that is considered to exist when there is evidence 
sufficient to show that a product, practice, circumstance, or event creates a situation that 
requires immediate correction or cessation of operation to prevent illness or injury based 
on the nature, severity, and duration of the anticipated illness or injury. 
22. 
Immunization means the process by which a person becomes protected (immune) 
against a disease. 
23. 
Infection means a condition caused by the multiplication of an infectious agent in the 
body. 
24. 
Infectious means capable of causing an infection. 
25. 
Infestation means the presence of unwanted pests such as insects, rodents, bats, birds, 
or parasites at levels considered to pose either an economic or health threat. 
26. 
Inspection means an evaluation of the school to determine conformance with these rules 
and regulations. 
a. 
Routine Inspection means an on-site evaluation by the Department of the school 
during its normal hours of operation, with school staff in attendance, to determine 
conformance with these rules and regulations. 
b. 
Self certification means a checklist of regulatory requirements completed by 
school personnel for the purpose of assessing compliance. 
c. 
Audit means a verification of a self-certification checklist of regulatory 
requirements by the Department. 
27. 
Prohibited Chemicals means those substances with greater hazardous nature than 
educational utility. Prohibited chemicals are those chemicals that pose an inherent, 
immediate and potentially life threatening risk, injury or impairment due to toxicity or other 
chemical properties to the students, staff, or other occupants of the school. 
28. 
Refuse means any garbage, trash, or other forms of solid waste. 
29. 
Restricted Chemicals means those substances with a hazardous nature, but may have 
potential educational utility. Restricted chemicals are listed in Appendix B to this 
regulation. 
30. 
Safety Data Sheet (SDS) means written or printed material concerning a hazardous 
chemical that is provided by the chemical manufacturer and prepared in accordance with 
29 CFR 1910.1200(g), revised July 1, 2013 and hereby incorporated by reference. Digital 
or other electronic versions of SDS may be approved at the discretion of the local fire 
authority. 
31. 
Sanitary Facilities means toilets, urinals, lavatories, showers, drinking fountains, utility 
sinks, and the service rooms provided for the installation and use of these units. 
32. 
Sanitization means effective bactericidal treatment by a process that provides enough 
accumulative heat or concentration of chemicals, registered with the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency, for sufficient time to reduce the bacterial count, including pathogens, 
to a safe level.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
7 
33. 
Sanitize means the application of a process or bactericidal treatment, registered with the 
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, for a period of time sufficient to reduce the 
bacterial count, including pathogens, to a safe level. (One method of demonstrating 
effective bactericidal treatment is by an average plate count of not more than 100 
colonies, or not more than 12 ½ colonies per square inch of surface area examined. This 
is not intended as a routine field procedure.) 
34. 
School - Any facility (public, proprietary, parochial, denominational, or eleemosynary) 
which is maintained for educational purposes for six or more persons except those 
facilities described in Section 6.2 (B). 
35. 
Service Animal means any dog or miniature horse that is individually trained to do work 
or perform tasks for the benefit of an individual with a disability, including a physical, 
sensory, psychiatric, intellectual, or other mental disability. Other species of animals, 
whether wild or domestic, trained or untrained, are not service animals for the purposes 
of this definition. The work or tasks performed by a service animal must be directly 
related to the handler's disability. Examples of work or tasks include, but are not limited 
to, assisting individuals who are blind or have low vision with navigation and other tasks, 
alerting individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing to the presence of people or sounds, 
providing non-violent protection or rescue work, pulling a wheelchair, assisting an 
individual during a seizure, alerting individuals to the presence of allergens, retrieving 
items such as medicine or the telephone, providing physical support and assistance with 
balance and stability to individuals with mobility disabilities, and helping persons with 
psychiatric and neurological disabilities by preventing or interrupting impulsive or 
destructive behaviors. The crime deterrent effects of an animal's presence and the 
provision of emotional support, well-being, comfort, or companionship do not constitute 
work or tasks for the purposes of this definition. 
36. 
Standards means requirements that are approved by the Department to provide for the 
protection of the school occupants and/or public health. 
37. 
Toxic Materials means substances capable of causing injury, illness or death when 
ingested, inhaled or absorbed. 
38. 
Virus means a microscopic organism smaller than a bacterium that may cause disease. 
Viruses can grow or reproduce only in living cells. 
6.5 
Incorporation by Reference 
These regulations incorporate by reference (as indicated within) materials originally published elsewhere. 
Such incorporation does not include later amendments to or editions of the referenced material. Pursuant 
to Section 24-4-103 (12.5)(a), C.R.S., the Department maintains certified copies of the complete text of 
any material incorporated by reference for public inspection during regular business hours and shall 
provide certified copies of the incorporated material at cost upon request. Information regarding how to 
obtain or examine the incorporated material is available from the Division Director, Division of 
Environmental Health & Sustainability, Colorado Department of Public Health & Environment, 4300 
Cherry Creek Drive South, Denver, CO 80246-1530. 
6.6 
Compliance Procedures 
6.6.1 
Inspections 
A. 
The Department shall conduct inspections to determine the condition of schools for the purpose 
of safeguarding the health of students, faculty and patrons of the school.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
8 
1. 
The Department shall be permitted to enter and inspect any school at any reasonable 
time to determine compliance with this regulation or to investigate unhealthy conditions or 
complaints. 
2. 
All schools with laboratories, and/or engaging in industrial arts or hazardous vocational 
activities should be inspected a minimum of once per year. All other schools should be 
inspected a minimum of once per three years. 
3. 
If a school is provided with water from a non-community water system, as defined in the 
Colorado Primary Drinking Water Regulations, 5 CCR 1002-11 the water supply system 
should be inspected at the frequency established by 5 CCR 1002-11. 
4. 
School food service inspections shall be conducted at the frequency established in the 
Colorado Retail Food Establishment Rules and Regulations, 6 CCR 1010-2. 
5. 
When an inspection of a school is conducted, it shall accurately reflect the sanitary 
conditions at the time of the inspection. Specific findings shall be recorded on an 
inspection report. 
6. 
Upon completion of the inspection by the Department, a copy of the completed inspection 
report identifying existing violations shall be furnished to, and signed by, the school 
contact. 
7. 
The completed and signed inspection report is a public document that shall be made 
available for public disclosure, according to law, to any person who requests it. 
8. 
If during an inspection, or at any other time, it is determined by the Department that an 
imminent health hazard exists, the school shall immediately cease operations unless 
dismissal of the students would be detrimental to their well being or unless an alternative 
plan for operation has been approved by the Department. Operations shall not be 
resumed until authorized by the Department. 
6.6.2 
Self-Certification 
A. 
The Department may require schools to complete and submit a Self-Certification Checklist. 
1. 
A Self-Certification Checklist completed, certified, and signed by an authorized school 
representative shall be considered equivalent to an on-site inspection performed by the 
Department. 
2. 
Any school that receives a Self-Certification Checklist from the Department shall 
complete and return the checklist within the time specified in the instructions provided by 
the Department. 
3. 
A self-certification checklist is deemed returned on the date it is received by the 
Department. The Department may provide an extension of time to complete and return a 
checklist upon request. 
4. 
The Self-Certification Checklist shall contain a certification in substantially the following 
form, which must be signed by an authorized representative of the school: 
a. 
“I, the undersigned school representative, certify that: 
(1) 
I have personally examined and am familiar with the information 
contained in this submittal;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
9 
(2) 
The information contained in this submittal is to the best of my 
knowledge, true, accurate, and complete in all respects; 
(3) 
I am fully authorized to make this certification on behalf of this facility; 
and 
(4) 
I am aware that there are significant penalties including, but not limited 
to, possible fines for willfully submitting false, inaccurate, or incomplete 
information.” 
6.6.3 
Compliance Assurance 
A. 
Where a school has violated any provision of the Rules and Regulations Governing Schools in 
the State of Colorado, the Department may issue a compliance advisory requiring the school take 
actions to correct regulatory deficiencies. A compliance advisory may require the school to 
design, redesign, install, modify, construct or reconstruct facilities or to take other such corrective 
action to eliminate any public health hazard. 
B. 
All violations cited during an inspection shall be corrected as soon as possible, but in any event, 
by the date specified by the Department. Compliance advisories will be sent to the school 
contact, the Principal, and the District Superintendent. 
C. 
Any school in receipt of a compliance advisory shall prepare and submit to the Department a Plan 
of Action detailing the corrective measures and timeframe required to rectify critical violations or 
other significant deficiencies noted during an inspection. Prior to implementation, the Plan of 
Action must be approved by the Department. 
D. 
Unless provided with a written extension from the Department, a school’s failure to complete and 
submit the Self-Certification Checklist to the Department may result in the issuance of a 
compliance advisory. 
E. 
A school’s failure to respond to a compliance advisory issued by the Department or to rectify 
critical violations of the Rules and Regulations Governing Schools in the State of Colorado may 
result in enforcement action including, but not limited to, public notification of unresolved critical 
violations and noncompliance with these rules and regulations. 
F. 
Prior to the Department initiating enforcement action, an informal meeting may be scheduled by 
the Department with school officials and other interested persons. This meeting will be to discuss 
the violations and the reason(s) for noncompliance, and to agree on an appropriate and viable 
Plan of Action to achieve regulatory compliance. 
G. 
A school contesting an enforcement action may request a hearing. Requests for such a hearing 
shall be filed in writing with the Department within 30 days after service of the action. Such 
requests shall state the grounds upon which the action is contested and state the amount of time 
the school estimates will be required for the hearing. Hearings on the enforcement action shall be 
held in accordance with applicable provisions of Article 4 of Title 24, C.R.S. 
H. 
The Department shall have the power and duty to close a school and forbid the gathering of 
people therein to protect students, faculty, and patrons of the school from the cause of epidemic 
and communicable diseases or physical conditions, operations, or maintenance practices that 
pose an imminent health hazard.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
10 
6.6.4 
Variance Procedures 
Schools may apply for a variance to these rules and regulations where the regulation is too stringently 
applied, the intent can be met in another way, or compliance is cost prohibitive or restrictive to curriculum. 
Variance requests will be considered for general provisions of the rules and regulations provided public 
health is protected. Such variance requests shall include the name of the school, the applicable section of 
the regulation and the reason for the request and supporting information. 
Variance requests will be considered to allow the use of prohibited chemicals and storage limitations on 
restricted chemicals provided the safety of students and faculty is assured. Such variance requests shall 
include the name of the school, chemical name (and associated SDS), and procedures for the 
management of the chemical, including procurement, storage, handling, disposal and spill response as 
well as the qualification of the person(s) responsible. 
Requests will be reviewed by representatives of the Department. Decisions are final and will expire upon 
a change of circumstances, including changes in responsible personnel or the alleviation of the initial 
hardship. 
6.7 
Sanitary Facilities and Controls 
6.7.1 
Water Supply 
A. 
Adequate, uncontaminated, safe drinking water for the needs of the school shall be provided in 
the building housing the establishment and shall be from a source constructed, maintained, and 
operated according to the Colorado Primary Drinking Water Regulations, 5 CCR 1002-11, and 
regulations adopted pursuant to Title 25-1.5-203, C.R.S., or 
1. 
If the school does not meet the definition of a public water system pursuant to the 
Colorado Primary Drinking Water Regulations, 5 CCR 1002-11 promulgated pursuant to 
25-1.5-101 and 25-1.5-203, C.R.S., the school shall provide: 
a. 
Adequate treatment on a continuous basis; and 
b. 
Bacteriological samples at a minimum of once per quarter or at a frequency 
determined by the Department; and 
c. 
An N, N diethyl-p-phenylene diamine (DPD) colorimetric drinking water test kit 
capable of testing free chlorine at an accuracy of 0.1 milligrams per liter (mg/L); 
and 
d. 
Free chlorine shall range from a trace amount to 4 mg/Liter (0.2 to 1.2 mg/L 
recommended) at any fixture; and 
e. 
The previous twelve months of water sample reports shall be retained on file at 
the school and shall be available for review by the Department when request; 
and the school shall immediately report positive results to Department. 
2. 
Schools with water supplies determined to be surface water or under the direct influence 
of surface water shall be required to filter their water to one micron absolute using 
National Science Foundation (NSF) approved equipment and maintain a residual 
disinfectant concentration to ensure inactivation and/or removal of giardia and other 
parasitic cysts and viruses.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
11 
B. 
The water supply system shall deliver water at normal operating pressures (20 pounds per 
square inch minimum) to all plumbing fixtures. 
C. 
When a total water service interruption exceeds a period of two hours, the school shall be closed, 
unless dismissal of the pupils would be detrimental to their physical well being, or unless 
accessible alternatives for providing drinking water are available and approved by the Department 
prior to use. 
D. 
Faucets on non-drinking water supply systems used for irrigation or similar purposes shall be 
physically separated from the drinking water supply system and the faucets on the non-drinking 
water system shall be clearly marked as unsafe for drinking. 
E. 
The water storage, distribution system, treatment facilities and other mechanical equipment shall 
be protected from unauthorized access. 
F. 
Where water is supplied by the school's independent water supply system, plans for the water 
system shall be submitted to the Department for approval prior to construction. 
6.7.2 
Sewage Disposal 
A. 
Facilities, approved by the Department, shall be provided and maintained for the treatment and 
sanitary disposal of sewage. 
B. 
Where a public sewer system is available, all plumbing fixtures and all building sewer lines shall 
be connected thereto, pursuant to Section 32-1-1006(1)(a)(I) C.R.S. 
C. 
If a public sewer system is not available, a sewage disposal system meeting the requirements of 
the Department shall be provided, and all plumbing fixtures and building sewer lines shall be 
connected thereto, pursuant to Sections 25-8-702(1) and/or 25-10-105 C.R.S. 
D. 
Where a total sewer service interruption exceeds a period of two hours, the school shall be 
closed unless dismissal of the pupils would be detrimental to their physical well being or unless 
accessible alternatives for the sanitary disposal of sewage are available and approved by the 
Department prior to use. 
E. 
Where non-water carriage sanitary facilities, such as vaults or privies are permitted, they shall be 
provided and installed in accordance with requirements of the Department. 
F. 
In all new schools and schools modifying existing sewage disposal systems or expanding their 
usage beyond the design capacity of the sewage disposal system, plans shall be submitted to the 
Department for review and approval in accordance with provisions of Sections 25-8-702 and/or 
25-10-105 C.R.S. prior to construction. 
6.7.3 
Refuse Disposal 
A. 
The storage, collection, transportation and disposal of refuse shall be conducted to control odors, 
insects, rodents, accidents, or other nuisance conditions. 
B. 
Durable non-absorbent, cleanable refuse, recycling and composting containers shall be provided, 
kept in a clean condition and placed in readily accessible locations. 
C. 
Exterior refuse, recycling and compost containers shall be easily cleanable, provided with covers, 
stored on a smooth surface of non-absorbent material, such as concrete or machine-laid asphalt, 
and kept in a clean, sanitary condition.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
12 
D. 
Interior garbage containers shall be easily cleanable and shall be emptied whenever full. Refuse 
shall be removed from the building and premises on a regular basis, or at a minimum every seven 
days, and in a manner which would prevent creation of a nuisance condition. 
E. 
Disposal or removal of hazardous materials shall be conducted in a safe manner and in 
accordance with state, federal, and local provisions. 
6.7.4 
Insect, Rodent Control and Classroom Animals 
A. 
Insects, rodents, bats and other pests shall be managed, when they reach levels considered to 
pose economic or health threats, with integrated strategies for long-term pest suppression, using 
the most cost-effective means with the least possible hazard to people, property, and the 
environment. 
B. 
Animals used for instructional purposes shall be maintained in a sanitary condition and in a 
manner to prevent health hazards or nuisance conditions. Their enclosures or pens shall be 
provided with easily cleanable surfaces and maintained in good repair. Hygienic practices shall 
be supervised during and following contact with animals. Location and/or presence of animals 
shall be determined based on the protection of the health of students and staff with allergies 
and/or asthma. 
C. 
Live poultry (e.g., chicks and ducklings), reptiles, and amphibians shall be prohibited as pets in 
classrooms with children kindergarten age or younger. Because infections from these animals 
spread via fecal-oral transmission (hand to mouth behaviors), use of these animals in other 
classrooms where children engage in frequent hand to mouth behaviors is discouraged. 
1. 
Embryology units involving the incubation of poultry eggs are allowed under the following 
conditions: 
a. 
Eggs and live birds must be enclosed in an incubator or brooding box at all times. 
b. 
The incubators and brooding boxes shall be placed on a nonabsorbent, smooth, 
and easily cleanable surface. Flooring beneath shall be non-carpeted and easily 
cleanable. 
c. 
The areas surrounding the incubators and brooding boxes shall be washed, 
rinsed, and disinfected at least daily with an approved disinfectant meeting the 
criteria listed in 6.7.6 (F)(1). The disinfectant used shall have a contact time of 
five minutes or less. 
d. 
Once chicks hatch they must be contained in the brooding boxes at all times and 
removed from the building within two weeks.  
e. 
Children in kindergarten may not handle the eggs, live birds, or their enclosures. 
f. 
Staff and children in first grade and subsequent grades involved with the care of 
the eggs or live birds shall thoroughly wash their hands with soap and running 
water immediately after handling eggs, birds, or enclosures. 
g. 
All staff and children who participate in the embryology unit must thoroughly 
wash their hands prior to meals and snacks. 
h. 
Hand sanitizer shall not be used in place of handwashing in accordance with 
6.7.6(D).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
13 
i. 
Children shall not eat in areas where incubators or brooding boxes are kept, 
even during inclement weather. 
j. 
The school shall contact the Department if there are two or more gastrointestinal 
illnesses identified, within a similar timeframe, in children or staff in classrooms 
where the incubators or brooding boxes are located. 
k. 
If preschool age children or younger are in the building the animals and their 
enclosures may not be in a communal area used by these younger children. 
2. 
Live poultry coops are allowed under the following conditions: 
a. 
Live poultry shall be enclosed in an outdoor coop. 
b. 
If preschool age children or younger are at the school, the coop may not be 
located in a communal area used by these younger children. 
c. 
Kindergarten age children or younger may not handle the poultry, eggs, or have 
direct contact with the coop. 
d. 
An alcohol based hand sanitizer with at least 60% alcohol shall be provided at 
entrances and exits of the chicken coop and the area where chickens are 
allowed to roam. 
e. 
All adults and children shall use hand sanitizer after any contact with the poultry, 
eggs, or the coop. Adults and children must then immediately wash their hands 
upon entering the building. 
f. 
Signs instructing the use of hand sanitizer and handwashing shall be clearly 
posted near the coop. The signs shall clearly state that hand sanitizer must be 
used immediately following contact with the chickens or the coop and that hands 
must be washed immediately upon returning to the building. 
g. 
The school shall contact the Department if there are two or more gastrointestinal 
illnesses identified, within a similar timeframe, in children or staff who have 
contact with the poultry, eggs, or the coop. 
D. 
Service animals shall be permitted to accompany their handlers throughout the school provided it 
is not in food preparation areas. Schools administrators shall make reasonable accommodations 
wherever possible to protect the health of students with allergies and asthma from contact with 
classroom and service animals. 
E. 
The use of toxic compounds to control rodents, insects, and other pests shall be implemented 
only after other means have been used for control, such as the elimination of harborages, 
cleaning food waste, and sealing of ports of entry. All pesticides shall be used in accordance with 
U.S Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) registered label directions and stored in a safe 
manner in an area accessible only to authorized personnel. Application of EPA "restricted use 
pesticides" shall be performed only by a certified pesticide applicator.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
14 
6.7.5 
Plumbing 
A. 
In the absence of more stringent plumbing codes, all plumbing fixtures shall be installed and 
maintained in accordance with the 2009 International Plumbing Code, hereby incorporated by 
reference. 
B. 
Plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in working order and in a clean sanitary condition. All 
plumbing fixtures shall be designed and maintained to be accessible by the age group being 
served. 
C. 
The drinking water supply shall be installed and maintained to preclude the possibility of backflow 
or backsiphonage of non-potable, used, unclean, polluted and contaminated water, or other 
substances, into any part of the drinking water system. 
D. 
A properly installed approved backflow prevention device shall be provided for all drinking water 
supply outlets which are capable of receiving a hose connection. 
E. 
Where chemical dispensing towers are installed without an integral air gap or break to prevent 
backsiphonage, an approved backflow prevention device shall be installed between the chemical 
tower and the water supply line. 
F. 
Backsiphonage and backflow prevention devices shall meet American Society of Sanitary 
Engineering (A.S.S.E.) standards for construction, installation, maintenance, inspection and 
testing for that specific application and type of device. 
6.7.6 
Toilet, Lavatory and Bathing Facilities 
A. 
Schools shall take active steps to ensure hand washing before eating, after restroom use, and 
any other time hands may be contaminated. 
B. 
Toilet, lavatory, bathing facilities and drinking fountains shall be provided and installed in 
accordance 28 CFR, Part 36, Nondiscrimination On The Basis Of Disability By Public 
Accommodations And In Commercial Facilities, revised July 1, 2014 and hereby incorporated by 
reference. 
C. 
Each hand washing and classroom sink shall be provided with hot and cold water through a 
mixing valve or combination faucet. Hot water at sinks accessible to children shall be at least 
90°F and shall not exceed a temperature of 120°F. 
D. 
Hand sanitizers may be used in addition to, but not in place of, hand washing within the facility. 
Hand sanitizers or approved alternate hand washing methods shall be used for staff and children 
at times and in areas where hand washing facilities are not available, such as while out of doors 
in remote locations. Hand sanitizers shall be stored in an area where use can be monitored. 
E. 
Sanitizers are to be used on commonly touched surfaces such as, but not limited to, chairs, 
desks, tables, keyboards, and computer mice. These surfaces shall be cleaned and sanitized at 
least once a week or whenever visibly soiled. 
1. 
Acceptance of sanitizers shall be determined by the following requirements: 
a. 
The chemical is registered with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and 
the use of the chemical is in accordance with labeled instructions, including: 
(1) 
Concentration;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
15 
(2) 
Contact time; 
(3) 
Method; and, 
(4) 
Surfaces. 
b. 
During times of increased illness, or at the discretion of the school health 
personnel, a disinfectant meeting the approval criteria in section 6.7.6(F)(1) may 
be used on these surfaces. If surfaces are also used for meals and snacks they 
shall be washed, rinsed, and sanitized after disinfection. 
F. 
Disinfectants are to be used on surfaces that are commonly contaminated with high hazard body 
fluids, such as but not limited to restroom surfaces, toilets, diaper changing areas and surfaces 
that have been in contact with high hazard body fluids. 
1. 
Acceptance of disinfectants shall be determined by the following requirements: 
a. 
The chemical is registered with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and 
the use of the chemical is in accordance with labeled instructions, including: 
(1) 
Concentration; 
(2) 
Contact time; 
(3) 
Method; and, 
(4) 
Surfaces. 
G. 
Drinking fountains shall be conveniently located on each floor and easily accessible to all school 
program activities. Drinking fountains shall not be located in toilet rooms or other areas with 
increased potential for contamination (e.g., science, vocational, industrial, photography or art 
education areas). 
H. 
Drinking fountains shall be equipped with angled jets and orifice guards located above the rim of 
the fountain. The pressure shall be regulated so that the water stream does not come in contact 
with, and passes, the orifice guard or splash onto the floor. Separate angle jet drinking fountains, 
when installed, shall be at an appropriate height. 
I. 
Use of common drinking cups or vessels is prohibited. 
J. 
Toilet rooms shall be conveniently located at a travel distance of not more than 200 feet from any 
room to be served and in accordance with Section 6.13(F) for health care areas. All toilet rooms 
shall be provided with adequate lavatory facilities. 
K. 
Detached structures and modular classrooms not provided with plumbing shall be no more than 
500 feet from restrooms and drinking water fountains, accessible through an unlocked door or 
key access during all hours of operation, and shall be adequately ventilated. 
L. 
Soap and single service towels shall be available for all lavatory facilities, except that mechanical 
warm air dryers may be used in lieu of towels. 
M. 
Hot and cold water or tempered water under operating pressures (20 PSI minimum) shall be 
available for bathing and washing. Hot water delivered to showers and lavatories shall be at least 
90 degrees Fahrenheit (90°F) and shall not exceed 120°F. The temperature of hot water at other 
fixtures shall not exceed 140°F, except where necessary for sanitizing purposes.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
16 
N. 
Toilets shall be equipped with non-absorbent, easily cleanable toilet seats. Toilet paper shall be 
available at each toilet mounted in an appropriate dispenser. 
O. 
Floors, walls, and ceilings of all toilet and locker rooms shall be smooth, easily cleanable, non-
absorbent and shall be maintained in good repair and in a clean, sanitary condition. 
P. 
A floor drain and a keyed hose bib with a vacuum breaker shall be available for all toilet rooms 
having a total combination of two or more water closets or urinals. The floors in these rooms shall 
slope to the floor drains. 
Q. 
Showers shall be installed in accordance with the 2009 International Plumbing Code, hereby 
incorporated by reference, or as approved by the Department. Showers shall be constructed to 
prevent water flow into the drying or dressing room space and shall slope to the floor drains. 
Shower floors, ceilings, and walls shall be easily cleanable and shower floors shall have a non-
skid surface. 
R. 
Functional hose bibs shall be available, where necessary, at designated refuse, compost and 
recycling storage areas and at high density student common use areas within 50 feet of the 
building where heavy accumulations of refuse are generated to minimize hazards and to maintain 
such areas in a clean, safe condition. 
6.7.7 
Diapering and Toileting 
A. 
Where diapering or bowel/bladder hygiene care is necessary, a separate changing area with 
privacy shall be available with a cleanable impervious surface large enough to accommodate the 
individual in care. 
1. 
This changing area shall be located: 
a. 
Away from any food preparation, storage and servicing areas. 
b. 
Nearby a handwashing sink with soap and hot and cold running water. 
c. 
Adjacent to a washable, covered container lined with a plastic bag, inaccessible 
to children, and used for disposal of soiled diapers, wipes and gloves. 
d. 
Items unrelated to diaper changing shall not be placed on the changing tables or 
wall-hung changing stations. 
2. 
If a changing mat is used it shall be kept clean and in good repair and shall be cleaned 
and disinfected after each use. 
3. 
The following procedure shall be conducted each time bowel or bladder hygiene is 
provided: 
a. 
Whenever bowel or bladder hygiene is conducted, individuals shall wear a new 
pair of disposable gloves prior to beginning. 
b. 
The student shall be cleaned wherever necessary. 
c. 
Soiled diapers/underwear and clothing shall be replaced with clean 
diapers/underwear and clothing.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
17 
d. 
Soiled clothes shall be placed in a plastic bag for parents or guardians to take 
home. Soiled diapers shall be placed in a covered, impervious plastic lined 
receptacle. 
e. 
The student’s hands shall be washed. 
(1) 
Any contaminated surfaces should be cleaned and disinfected. 
f. 
The staff member shall then thoroughly wash his/her hands. 
6.8 
Buildings and Grounds 
6.8.1 
Buildings 
A. 
The school campus and accessory buildings shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition 
and in a manner that minimizes health and safety hazards to building occupants. 
B. 
Adequate space shall be provided for each person in classrooms, libraries, shops, laboratories, 
vocational training rooms, dining rooms, and other related activity rooms or areas to lessen the 
possibility of health hazards, and disease transmission. Adequate space is required in 
accordance with the 2006 International Building Code, hereby incorporated by reference. 
C. 
Where necessary, classroom and health room windows shall be equipped with blinds, shades, or 
other effective means to prevent glare, to control natural light, and provide appropriate privacy. 
D. 
Windows, when opened, shall not create a hazard such as noise, dust, fumes or extreme 
temperatures or hazard that may result in physical injury. 
E. 
Exposure to noise, dusts, toxic chemicals, or other hazards shall be controlled at all times 
including when the building or portion thereof is occupied during construction or remodeling. 
1. 
An asbestos management plan complying with the provisions of the Colorado Air Quality 
Control Commission, 5 CCR 1001-10, Regulation No. 8 shall be developed and 
maintained on file at each school and available for review. Prior to remodeling any portion 
of the school building, the asbestos management plan must be reviewed and any 
necessary construction-specific inspections for the identification of asbestos containing 
materials must be conducted in accordance with Colorado Air Quality Control 
Commission, 5 CCR 1001-10, Regulation No. 8. 
2. 
Radon testing shall be completed by each school and conducted pursuant to the 
procedures described in the American Association of Radon Scientists and Technologists 
(AARST) Protocol for Conducting Measurements of Radon and Radon Decay Products In 
Schools and Large Buildings, 2015, hereby incorporated by reference. The results of 
these tests shall be on file at each school and available for review. Schools constructed 
after the effective date of these rules and regulations shall complete radon tests within 19 
months of the date of occupancy. Schools remodeled after the effective date of these 
rules and regulations shall notify the Department of such remodeling in order that the 
Department may assess the need for any additional radon testing. 
F. 
When there is a change in classroom use, the design and construction of the classroom facilities 
shall be appropriate for the new use, including safety provisions required by Section 6.12 of this 
regulation, where applicable. 
G. 
The school campus shall be maintained in a manner that prevents fire hazards. Fire control 
methods shall conform to state and local fire prevention regulations.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
18 
H. 
School buses shall be operated and maintained to avoid health and safety hazards. 
6.8.2 
Grounds 
A. 
The ground shall be self draining and free from depressions in which water may stand and be 
allowed to stagnate. The grounds shall be kept free from refuse, unused equipment, weed 
overgrowth, and other hazards. All outdoor areas shall be maintained in a sanitary condition and 
be free of insect and rodent harborages, open or accessible wells, grease traps, cisterns, 
cesspools, septic tanks, and/or utility equipment. 
B. 
Raw agricultural products grown on-site shall be permitted in school cafeterias provided school 
gardens and greenhouses conform to U.S. Department of Agriculture Good Agricultural Practices. 
C. 
Livestock or poultry shall be located more than 50 feet from food service areas, offices, or 
classrooms except those offices and classrooms associated with animal husbandry activities. 
6.9 
Mechanical Requirements 
6.9.1 
Electrical 
A. 
Schools shall be provided with operational electrical service and artificial lighting at all times when 
occupied. 
B. 
The electrical system shall be maintained in good repair and shall not present a hazard to health 
and safety. In the absence of more stringent electrical codes, installation, maintenance and use of 
the electrical system shall adhere to the 2014 National Electrical Code, hereby incorporated by 
reference. 
C. 
When an electrical service interruption exceeds a period of two hours, the school shall be closed, 
unless dismissal of the pupils would be detrimental to their physical well being, or unless 
accessible approved alternatives for providing lighting, temperature control, and hot water are 
available that meet the requirements of the Department. 
6.9.2 
Lighting 
A. 
The electrical lighting system shall provide the following average light level intensities: 35 foot 
candles for classrooms, libraries, offices, laboratories and shops; 20 foot candles for reception 
rooms, restrooms, gymnasiums, service rooms, swimming areas and dining areas; 10 foot 
candles for auditoriums, locker rooms and stairways; and 5 foot candles for corridors, hallways, 
storage and utility areas. Light level intensities shall be measured at the work surface or 30 
inches from the floor. 
B. 
Extreme brightness ratios (glare and shadow) shall be minimized by avoiding glossy surfaces, by 
use of diffused lighting, by use of easily cleanable high light reflectance paints or other finishes for 
ceilings, walls, and floors, by use of window shades, routine cleaning and maintenance of 
electrical fixtures, and/or other measures necessary to prevent undue glare and maintain a high 
level of light effectiveness. 
C. 
Appropriate measures shall be taken to assure that persons are not exposed to harsh lighting, 
which may be harmful to the eyes, such as ultra-violet light.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
19 
6.9.3 
Ventilation 
A. 
Ventilation, mechanical or natural, shall be installed and maintained in accordance with the 2013 
American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Engineers Standard 62.1-2013, 
Ventilation for Acceptable Indoor Air Quality, hereby incorporated by reference, and to minimize 
health hazards including excessive drafts, extreme temperatures, humidity, and temperature 
fluctuations. 
B. 
Ventilation system filters shall be cleaned or replaced regularly or according to manufacturer’s 
recommendations to prevent excessive accumulation of dust or debris. 
C. 
Restrooms shall be equipped with mechanical exhaust to remove bio-aerosols and noxious 
odors. 
D. 
Each room provided with an exhaust system shall have air supplied to the room equal to the 
amount to be exhausted. Windows shall not be used for the purpose of providing makeup air. 
E. 
Unvented combustion heaters, kitchen stoves, or hot plates shall be prohibited for space heating 
purposes. Portable electric heaters with exposed elements shall not be used in any student 
activity area. 
F. 
Hot plates, skillets, or similar type cooking appliances shall be used for food preparation only in 
kitchen, home economics room, or in rooms specifically designated and equipped for such use. 
G. 
Operational carbon monoxide alarms shall be installed in areas where fossil fuel-fired heaters and 
appliances are used such as in boiler rooms and kitchens. Maintenance and installation of carbon 
monoxide detectors shall comply with manufacturer’s instructions. Carbon monoxide alarms must 
be tested at least annually with documentation available upon request. Carbon monoxide 
detectors that are only battery-powered shall be tested monthly and the batteries shall be 
replaced at least annually. 
6.9.4 
Heating 
The heating system provided shall be properly maintained and provide, in all occupied rooms, minimum 
room temperatures of 60° F at sixty 60 inches above the floor in shops and gymnasiums and 65° F at 
thirty 30 inches above the floor in elementary, secondary, and higher educational school classrooms, and 
at floor level in kindergarten. A plan that addresses operating during periods of extreme temperature, as it 
relates to indoor air, shall be developed. A current boiler inspection certificate shall be posted and 
available upon request. 
6.10 
Equipment and Supplies 
A. 
Instructional, athletic, recreational or other equipment used in or out of the classroom shall be 
maintained in a clean, safe condition. 
B. 
Toys and equipment shall meet the current requirements of the Colorado Hazardous Substance 
Act, Section 25-5-501 and Section 25-5-508, et. seq., C.R.S. 
C. 
Gym equipment shall be kept clean and in good repair. Body contact equipment surfaces shall be 
routinely cleaned and sanitized. 
D. 
Equipment used in physical therapy and special education shall be cleaned and sanitized after 
each use.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
20 
E. 
Facilities shall be available for the proper storage of clean clothing, and of athletic, instructional, 
and recreational equipment and supplies to minimize health hazards and to facilitate cleaning. 
F. 
Cleaning materials, tools, and maintenance equipment shall be provided and shall be safely 
stored and secured in a locked area. Safety Data Sheets (SDS) for pesticides, toxic or hazardous 
cleaning and maintenance chemicals and materials shall be maintained and organized to be easy 
to locate in the event of a spill or accidental exposure. 
G. 
Pesticides, toxic or hazardous cleaning and maintenance chemicals and materials shall be stored 
separately in a ventilated and locked cabinet or area accessible only to authorized personnel. The 
ventilation requirement of this section may not be required in areas where minimum quantities of 
the above mentioned materials are stored for daily use. In the absence of more stringent 
requirements flammable or combustible materials shall be stored in accordance with the 2015 
National Fire Protection Association Code 30 Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code, hereby 
incorporated by reference. 
H. 
Kindergartens, health service rooms, or other areas, where sleeping is permitted shall be 
provided with sleeping facilities including cots or pads, with washable or disposable covers. 
These sleeping facilities shall be maintained in good repair and provided in a clean condition for 
each new user. 
I. 
Towels and wash cloths, and other linens, where provided, shall be laundered in water at least 
140°F or shall reach at least 140°F in a heat drying cycle. Such linens, towels, and wash cloths 
shall be issued clean, used by only one person and shall be laundered after each use. 
6.11 
Food Service 
A. 
Food service activities shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements of the Colorado 
Retail Food Establishment Rules and Regulations, 6 CCR 1010-2. 
1. 
Schools preparing or serving food other than pre-packaged, non-potentially hazardous 
food or raw, unprocessed produce shall obtain a Retail Food Establishment License or 
Certificate of License as required by the Colorado Retail Food Establishment Rules and 
Regulations, 6 CCR 1010-2, Sections 11-102 and 11-103. 
B. 
Establishments serving food at the school but not prepared by school staff shall be licensed, 
inspected and approved by the Department. The food shall be transported, stored and served in a 
manner to prevent contamination, time and temperature abuse or adulteration. 
C. 
Dining activities shall be confined to rooms or areas designated by the school administrator. The 
dining area shall be maintained clean, and in a sanitary condition. 
D. 
Plans and specifications for construction or alteration of food service facilities shall be submitted 
in accordance with the requirements of the Colorado Retail Food Establishment Rules and 
Regulations, 6 CCR 1010-2, Section 11-4.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
21 
6.12 
Laboratory, Industrial, Art, and Vocational Hazards 
6.12.1 Procedures 
A. 
Provisions shall be made for the protection of students and staff engaging in arts, crafts, industrial 
arts, physical and biological sciences, vocational, educational or any activities where potentially 
hazardous chemicals, hazardous devices or hazardous equipment are used. These provisions 
include the development and posting of operating instructions, regulations, procedures, and a 
chemical hygiene plan. All potentially hazardous chemicals, hazardous devices or hazardous 
equipment including those used in art, industrial art and vocational art areas shall be used only in 
accordance with the product labeling. If available, specific manufacturer’s instructions and 
warnings for safe use of the product or equipment shall be followed. When available, products 
with the safest materials shall be used (e.g., those with few or no cautionary/warning labels). 
Additional guidance regarding potential hazards and health and safety provisions associated with 
industrial and vocational arts and crafts is provided in the U.S. Consumer Product Safety 
Commission’s Publication No. 5015, Art and Craft Safety Guide. Schools may rely on this 
guidance. 
B. 
Exposure to noise, or toxic liquids, dusts, gases, mists, fumes or vapors or other hazards shall be 
controlled to avoid health hazards. 
C. 
A current SDS shall be provided in an organized and easily searchable format (e.g., 
alphabetically filed) for all toxic or hazardous substances and shall be available for review upon 
request. A copy of the SDS shall be kept on file in a location away from the areas where the 
aforementioned chemicals are stored. Digital or other electronic versions of SDS may be 
approved at the discretion of the local fire authority. 
D. 
In the absence of more stringent standards the 2015 National Fire Protection Association Code 
30 Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code and 2015 National Fire Protection Association 
Code 45 Fire Protection for Laboratories Using Chemicals are hereby incorporated by reference 
and shall be used as standards for the proper storage, handling and use of chemicals in the 
school. 
E. 
A chemical hygiene plan which addresses all areas of the school where toxic or hazardous 
substances are used or stored shall be provided. All restricted chemicals present in the school, 
including those stored in laboratory, vocational, arts, and custodial areas, shall be individually 
addressed in the plan. A copy of the plan shall be kept on file in a location away from the areas 
where chemicals are stored. The chemical hygiene plan shall be reviewed and updated, as 
necessary, at least once annually. All schools must develop a Chemical Hygiene Plan by January 
1, 2016. A copy of the Chemical Hygiene Plan shall be provided to the local fire department and 
local emergency planning committee upon request. 
F. 
Procedures shall be established for the management of chemical waste and shall be addressed 
in the chemical hygiene plan. All containers of chemical waste shall be labeled to their contents 
and with the words “not for use” or “waste”, maintained in good condition and separated by 
reactive group. Chemical waste shall be stored in a designated area away from normal classroom 
operations and away from sinks and floor drains. Chemical waste shall be handled and stored in 
a manner that minimizes the possibility of a fire, explosion, or release. A hazardous waste 
determination shall be made for all waste chemicals in accordance with 6 CCR 1007-3 Section 
262 of the Colorado Hazardous Waste Regulations. Hazardous waste chemicals must be 
properly disposed of at a permitted facility and shall not be disposed of on-site. All other chemical 
waste shall be disposed of using an appropriate method as provided on the chemical SDS, or as 
indicated by the manufacturer.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
22 
G. 
A current list of emergency services with telephone numbers, including the name, address and 
telephone number of the school, shall be posted in one or more prominent place(s) in each 
school. 
H. 
Aspirators or suction bulbs shall be used for drawing liquids into pipettes. The mouth must not be 
used directly on the pipettes. 
6.12.2 Safety Equipment 
A. 
Protective clothing, that meets the ANSI Z49.1-2014 Standard- Safety in Welding, Cutting, and 
Allied Processes, hereby incorporated by reference, shall be worn by all students participating in, 
observing, or in close proximity to welding or other such activities that could result in sparks 
contacting clothing. Welding helmets, that meet the requirements of ANSI Z49.1-2014 Standard- 
Safety in Welding, Cutting, and Allied Processes, hereby incorporated by reference, shall be worn 
by all students participating in, observing, or in close proximity to welding. Protective clothing 
shall be maintained clean and in good repair. 
B. 
Eye protection, that meets the ANSI Z87.1-2010 Standard for Occupational and Educational 
Personal Eye and Face Protection Devices, hereby incorporated by reference, must be worn by 
all students participating in, observing, or in close proximity to any experiment or activity which 
could result in eye injury. Eye protection glasses, goggles, face shields, and similar eye protection 
devices shall be issued clean, in good repair and properly sanitized between students and stored 
in a protected place. Sanitization of eye protection can be accomplished using an ultraviolet light 
case, a chemical sanitizer in accordance with Section 6.7.6, or other effective means approved by 
the Department. 
C. 
An easily accessible fire blanket must be provided in all areas where an open flame is used. 
D. 
Where there is potential for exposure to skin with toxic, infectious or irritating materials, a hand 
washing facility shall be available. 
E. 
An easily accessible operational eye wash fountain that meets the ANSI Z358.1-2009 Standard, 
hereby incorporated by reference, must be provided in each laboratory or other areas where 
corrosives or irritating materials are used. The eye wash fountain shall be maintained clean, 
permanently plumbed, and provide a hands-free continuous flow of water capable of flushing both 
eyes simultaneously. The use of portable eye wash bottles as substitutes is not permitted. Easily 
accessible means no more than 55 feet from the storage or use of corrosive or irritating materials 
so that it can be reached with impaired vision within 10 seconds or less. Eye wash fountains shall 
be tested annually with documentation available upon request. 
F. 
An easily accessible operational safety shower that meets the ANSI Z358.1-2009 Standard, 
hereby incorporated by reference, capable of providing continuous flowing water, shall be 
provided for each laboratory or other areas where corrosive or irritating chemicals are used. The 
safety shower can be centrally located so as to serve more than one area provided that it is within 
55 feet from the storage or use of corrosive or irritating materials and can be reached with 
impaired vision within 10 seconds or less. The safety shower shall be tested annually with 
documentation available upon request. 
G. 
A master gas control valve (MGCV), is required on gas supply lines to vocational areas and 
science laboratories. The MGCV shall stop the flow of gas to all appliances/ equipment located in 
the room and must function as a manually operated emergency gas shut-off. One MGCV shall be 
provided for each room and made easily accessible. Electric shut-off switches shall be provided 
in areas where power equipment is used. Master gas valves and electric shut-off switches shall 
be labeled for high visibility and tested annually with documentation available upon request.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
23 
H. 
Adequately stocked first aids kits shall be stored in all laboratories, vocational education, 
industrial arts, set design, and art classrooms. 
I. 
Fire extinguishers are required in accordance with the 2015 National Fire Protection Association 
Code 45 Standard on Fire Protection for Laboratories Using Chemicals, hereby incorporated by 
reference. Dry chemical Class ABC extinguishers are recommended for laboratory use. If 
combustible metals (e.g., Mg, Na, K) are present, laboratories must have a class D extinguisher 
or those agents shown to be effective in controlling combustible metal fires as well. 
J. 
All emergency and safety equipment shall be tested annually with documentation available upon 
request and labeled for high visibility. 
K. 
Radioactive materials and equipment shall conform to the Colorado Department of Public Health 
and Environment Rules and Regulations Pertaining to Radiation Control, 6 CCR 1007-1. 
6.12.3 Storage Provisions 
A. 
Toxic or hazardous materials shall be stored in safe and appropriate containers, separated by 
reactive group and stored in a ventilated, locked area or appropriate cabinet. The ventilation 
requirement of this section may not be required where minimum quantities of such materials are 
stored for daily use. Toxic or hazardous materials must be stored according to the chemical 
manufacturer's storage temperature requirements at all times including during school holidays 
and breaks. 
B. 
All containers of chemicals shall be clearly labeled with the name, original quantity of the material, 
and the date the material entered the school. Secondary containers and/or prepared solutions 
intended for storage shall be labeled with chemical name and, if applicable, the formula (including 
solvent), date of preparation, disposal date, and concentration. 
C. 
Schools shall not purchase or accept donations of prohibited chemicals. These chemicals are 
prohibited from use and/or storage at the school unless a variance from this regulation is 
requested in writing by the school and approved by Department. If prohibited chemicals are found 
in the school, they shall be identified on the container label as “not for use” or “waste” and 
segregated from the chemical inventory. Unless a variance has been granted by the Department, 
all schools must dispose of prohibited chemicals. Prohibited chemicals are listed in Appendix A to 
this regulation. 
D. 
Restricted chemicals shall be removed from the schools if alternatives can be used. If restricted 
chemicals are present at the school, each chemical shall be identified in the school’s chemical 
inventory and addressed in the chemical hygiene plan as required in Sections 6.12.1(E) and (F) 
of these regulations. Containers of restricted chemicals shall be labeled as such. Restricted 
chemicals with an indefinite shelf life, as indicated in Appendix B and B2, shall be obtained in 
amounts that can be expended in five years or less. Restricted chemicals with a good, fair, poor 
or limited shelf life, as indicated in Appendix B and B2, shall be obtained in amounts that can be 
expended in one school year, or less than one year if the manufacturer indicates a lesser period 
of time in which the chemical shall be used. 
E. 
Restricted chemicals (demonstration use only) are a subclass in the restricted chemical lists that 
are limited to instructor demonstration. Students may not participate in the handling or 
preparation of restricted chemicals as part of a demonstration. If restricted chemicals 
(demonstration use only) are present at the school, each chemical shall be addressed in the 
school’s written emergency plan as addressed in sections 6.13(K) and (L) of these regulations. 
Demonstration only chemicals are listed in Appendix B2 to this regulation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
24 
F. 
All chemicals, compounds, and hazardous substances shall be inventoried by the school a 
minimum of once a year. The inventory shall include the name of the compound, the amount, and 
the year it entered the school. If restricted or prohibited chemicals are present in the school, they 
shall be designated as such in the chemical inventory. A copy of the inventory shall be kept in the 
area of use and on file in a location away from the areas where chemicals are stored. The 
updated inventory shall be provided to the local fire department and local emergency planning 
committee upon request. 
G. 
Refrigerators used for flammable compounds shall be prominently marked to indicate they meet 
the appropriate design requirements for safe storage of flammable liquids. Food for consumption 
shall not be stored in refrigerators used for flammable or any other laboratory related materials. 
Food and food containers for experimentation shall be labeled as “not for consumption” and 
segregated from foods intended for consumption. 
H. 
The storage, preparation, and consumption of food and drink are prohibited in any area where 
there are toxic or hazardous substances. A personal water bottle is allowed when there are no 
toxic or hazardous substances in use. When a student’s individual health care needs (e.g., health 
care plan, 504 Plan) require food to be readily available, it shall be allowed in these areas as long 
as it is protected from contamination and not available for general consumption. 
I. 
Glassware shall be properly constructed and designed for its intended use and shall be handled 
and stored in a safe manner. 
6.12.4 Ventilation 
A. 
All areas shall be adequately ventilated through mechanical means so that exposures to 
hazardous or toxic materials are maintained to a safe level. Additional guidance in determining 
safe levels is provided in the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists, 
Threshold Limit Values and Biological Exposures Indices. Schools may rely on this guidance. 
B. 
Local exhaust ventilation shall be provided so that contaminants are exhausted away from the 
student and not through the breathing zone. 
1. 
Air flow of local exhaust ventilation must be tested annually with documentation available 
upon request. 
C. 
Sufficient fume hood capacity ventilation shall be provided and shall be used for any activity 
producing hazardous toxic or noxious gases, mists, vapors, or dusts. 
1. 
Hoods must exhaust directly to the outside and shall be located a minimum of 10 feet 
from any building air-intakes or building openings. 
2. 
Discharges of any reportable air pollutant from any exhaust hood must meet applicable 
Colorado Air Pollution Standards. 
3. 
In the absence of other applicable standards, a minimum face velocity of 100 feet per 
minute (fpm) and a maximum of 120 fpm for general laboratory hoods must be provided. 
4. 
Air flow of fume hoods must be tested annually with documentation available upon 
request. 
D. 
Spray booths and finishing rooms where flammable or combustible materials are used shall be 
constructed in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.107, revised July 1, 2011 and hereby incorporated 
by reference.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
25 
6.13 
Health Service 
A. 
Children in care shall be immunized as required by 6 CCR 1009-2, Rules Pertaining to the Infant 
Immunization Program, the Vaccines for Children Program, and the Immunization of Students 
Attending School. The official Certificate of Immunization, official Exemption form or written 
documentation of the student being In-Process shall be on file for each enrolled student. Upon 
request of state or local health agencies, schools are responsible for providing records with 
identifiers removed if the school is subject to the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act 
(FERPA). 
B. 
Basic first aid equipment and medical supplies including: gauze pads and roller gauze, adhesive 
tape, cold pack, plastic bags, disposable gloves, band-aids, hand cleaner, small flashlight and 
extra batteries, scissors, and blanket shall be provided and kept conveniently available for 
emergency use. 
1. 
First aid supplies and equipment with an expiration date shall be discarded and replaced 
once that date has passed. 
C. 
At all times during the school day and during school sponsored events, including those off-site, at 
least one staff member shall be on duty in each school who has a current certification from a 
nationally recognized course in Standard First Aid and Cardio Pulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) 
certification course. A list of persons currently certified, as described above, shall be maintained 
in each school office. 
D. 
Schools that acquire Automated External Defibrillators (AEDs) shall ensure public health and 
safety in accordance with C.R.S. 13-21-108.1. 
E. 
Separate rooms or areas shall be available in every school for emergency use in providing care 
for persons who are ill, or suspected of having communicable diseases. 
F. 
Every health care room or area must have an easily accessible restroom within 50 feet and shall 
be provided with at least one cot for each 400 students or part thereof. Each cot and pillow shall 
have an easily cleanable, non-absorbent surface or cover which is sanitized after each use. A 
sink with hot and cold running water shall be located in the health care room or area. Unless 
prohibited by local code, in new and extensively remodeled schools, a restroom directly adjoining 
the health office is required. This restroom is for the exclusive use of health services. 
G. 
In accordance with the Nurse Practice Act, C.R.S. 12-38-132, medication administered by trained 
school personnel with oversight by a registered nurse shall be inaccessible to children and shall 
be stored in the original container in a controlled area separated from food, cleaning compounds 
and other toxic substances. Emergency medications such as epinephrine shall be inaccessible to 
students, immediately available to trained school personnel and in an unlocked location (e.g., 
emergency kit or bag, cabinet). If refrigeration is required, the medication shall be stored: 
1. 
In a separate refrigerator maintained for that purpose only, or 
2. 
In an impervious secondary container in a designated area of a food storage refrigerator, 
separated from food and inaccessible to children 
H. 
Medications acquired by the school or abandoned by parents shall be disposed of in accordance 
with 6 CCR 1007-2, Part 1, Regulations Pertaining to Solid Waste Sites and Facilities and 6 CCR 
1007-3, Parts 260-268, and Parts 99 and 100. 
I. 
Medical oxygen shall not be used by students or staff in areas with open flames. Signage shall be 
posted in the school that oxygen is in use.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
26 
J. 
Telephone or radio communications shall be provided and kept available in each school for 
emergency purposes. 
K. 
A written plan with common procedures for handling medical emergencies shall be kept and 
made available for review. A current list of emergency services with telephone numbers, including 
the address and telephone number of the school, shall be posted in one or more prominent 
place(s) in each school. 
L. 
A written all hazards plan for handling disasters, including large outbreaks, shall be available at 
each school. Disaster training and review will be conducted each year at each school. Principals, 
school personnel and students will periodically review and test each disaster plan. 
M. 
Schools should follow the Department’s Infectious Disease Guidelines for Schools and Child 
Care, including reporting requirements to LPHA and the Department.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDICES

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
28 
Appendix A – Prohibited Chemicals 
Appendix A – Prohibited Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
2-Butanol 
(sec-Butyl Alcohol) 
C2H5CH(OH)CH3 
78-92-2 
may form explosive 
peroxides upon 
concentration 
Acetal 
(1,1-Diethoxyethane) 
C6H14O2 
105-57-7 
may form explosive 
peroxides upon 
concentration; toxic 
Acetaldehyde 
(Ethanal) 
CH3CHO 
75-07-0 
may form explosive 
peroxides upon 
concentration; possibly 
carcinogenic to 
humans; highly 
flammable 
Acetyl Halides (e.g., Acetyl Fluoride, 
Acetyl Chloride, Acetyl Bromide, 
Acetyl Iodide) 
 
 
respiratory irritant, toxic; 
violent reaction with 
water; dangerous fire 
risk 
Acetyl Nitrate 
CH3CONO3 
591-09-3 
shock sensitive 
Acrolein 
CH2CHCHO 
107-02-8 
flammable and reactive; 
may be fatal if ingested, 
inhaled, or absorbed 
through the skin 
Acrylic Acid (Propenoic Acid) 
H2CCHCO2H 
79-10-7 
may form explosive 
peroxides; reactive; 
corrosive 
Acrylonitrile 
CH2CHCN 
107-13-1 
may form explosive 
peroxides; possibly 
carcinogenic to 
humans; flammable; 
reactive 
Alcohols (Allylic, Benzylic) 
Note: Alcohols are referred to as 
allylic or benzylic if the hydroxyl group 
is bonded to an allylic carbon atom 
(adjacent to a C=C double bond) or a 
benzylic carbon atom (next to a 
benzene ring), respectively. (e.g., 3-
penten-2-ol; 2-propen-1-ol (allyl 
alcohol), 1-phenylethanol, 
phenylmethanol (benzyl alcohol), 
diphenylmethanol (diphenylcarbinol), 
triphenylmethanol (triphenylcarbinol)). 
 
 
may form explosive 
peroxides upon 
concentration

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
29 
Appendix A – Prohibited Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Alkyl-Substituted 
Cycloaliphatics 
Note: Methyl-, ethyl-, propyl-, butyl- 
are common alkyl substituents. A 
cycloaliphatic is a cyclic hydrocarbon 
such as cyclopropane, cyclobutane, 
or cyclohexane (e.g., tert-
butylcycloheptane or 1-cyclobutyl-4-
methylpentane). 
 
 
may form explosive 
peroxides upon 
concentration 
Aluminum Phosphide 
AlP 
20859-73-8 
water-reactive; 
generates poisonous 
and explosive gas when 
in contact with air or 
moisture 
Amatol (TNT and Ammonium Nitrate 
mixture) 
 
 
explosive 
Ammonal (TNT, Ammonium Nitrate, 
and Aluminum Powder Mixture) 
 
 
explosive 
Ammonium Bromate 
NH4BrO3 
13843-59-9 
shock sensitive 
Ammonium Chlorate 
NH4ClO3 
10192-29-7 
strong oxidizer; 
explosive 
Ammonium 
Hexanitrocobaltate 
NH3Co(NO2)6 
13600-98-1 
explosive 
Ammonium Nitrite 
NH4NO2 
13446-48-5 
explosive 
Ammonium Perchlorate 
NH4ClO4 
7790-98-9 
strong oxidizer; 
explosive; irritant 
Ammonium Periodate 
NH4IO4 
13446-11-2 
strong oxidizer; 
explosive; irritant; 
inhalation hazard 
Ammonium Permanganate 
NH4MnO4 
13446-10-1 
explosive 
Ammonium 
Tetraperoxychromate 
(NH4)3CrO8 
 
explosive 
Antimony Compounds (e.g., triethyl 
stibine, tripropyl stibine, trivinyl 
stibine, antimony trichloride, antimony 
pentachloride, nickel antimonide) 
 
 
dust fire and explosion 
hazard; poison; 
corrosive; reactive; 
some antimony 
compounds are 
possibly carcinogenic to 
humans

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
30 
Appendix A – Prohibited Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Arsenic and Arsenic Compounds 
(e.g., lead arsenate, sodium arsenate, 
sodium arsenite, Trisilyl Arsine, 
arsine, arsenic trioxide) 
 
 
carcinogenic to 
humans; poison 
Azide Compounds (e.g., hydrogen 
azide, sodium azide, copper azide, 
lead (dinitride) azide) 
 
 
acutely toxic; shock 
sensitive; explosive 
Azidocarbonyl Guanidine 
C2H4N6O 
54567-24-7 
shock sensitive, 
explosive 
Barium 
Ba 
7440-39-3 
water-reactive; may 
ignite on contact with 
water or moist air; 
acutely toxic 
Barium Chlorate 
Ba(ClO3)2·H2O 
13477-00-4 
explosive; strong 
oxidizer; toxic 
Barium Oxide (Anhydrous) 
BaO 
1304-28-5 
poison; water-reactive 
Barium Peroxide 
BaO2 
1304-29-6 
poison; water-reactive; 
oxidizer 
Benzene 
C6H6 
71-43-2 
carcinogenic to 
humans; flammable 
Benzene Diazonium 
Chloride 
C6H5ClN2 
100-34-5 
explosive 
Benzotriazole 
C6H5N3 
95-14-7 
explosive 
Benzoyl Peroxide 
(C6H5CO)2O2 
94-36-0 
flammable; explosive; 
oxidizer; sensitizer; 
allergen; reacts violently 
with bases 
Benzyl Alcohol 
C6H5CH2OH 
100-51-6 
reacts violently with 
oxidants; may form 
explosive peroxides 
upon concentration 
Bismuth Nitrate 
Bi(NO3)3·5H2O 
10035-06-0 
strong oxidizer; contact 
with other material may 
cause fire; toxic 
Boranes and Diboranes (e.g., borane, 
tribromoborane, trifluoroborane, 
diborane, pentaborane, 
methyldiborane) 
 
 
poison; flammable; 
water-reactive

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
31 
Appendix A – Prohibited Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Bromine Pentafluoride 
BrF5 
7789-30-2 
oxidizer; poison; 
inhalation hazard; 
corrosive; reacts with 
water with explosive 
force 
Bromine Trifluoride 
BrF3 
7787-71-5 
oxidizer; poison; 
inhalation hazard; 
corrosive; reacts with 
water with explosive 
force 
Butadiene 
C4H6 
106-99-0 
may for explosive 
peroxides; carcinogenic 
to humans 
Butanetriol Trinitrate (BTTN) 
C4H7N3O9 
6659-60-5 
explosive 
Cadmium and Cadmium 
Compounds (e.g., cadmium 
hydroxide, cadmium oxide, cadmium 
sulfide) 
 
 
carcinogenic to 
humans; highly toxic 
Calcium Nitrate, Anhydrous 
Ca(NO3)2 
10124-37-5 
strong oxidizer; may 
explode if shocked or 
heated 
Calcium Permanganate 
Ca(MnO4)2 
10118-76-0 
strong oxidizer 
Carbon Tetrachloride 
CCl4 
56-23-5 
possibly carcinogenic to 
humans; acutely toxic 
Chloral Hydrate 
CCl3CH(OH)2 
302-17-0 
controlled barbiturate; 
probably carcinogenic 
to humans 
Chlorine 
Cl2 
7782-50-5 
oxidizer, corrosive, may 
be fatal if inhaled 
Chlorine Dioxide 
ClO2 
10049-04-4 
oxidizer; flammable and 
reactive; shock 
sensitive; explosive 
Chlorine Trifluoride 
ClF3 
7790-91-2 
powerful oxidizer; 
explosive reaction with 
water and acids; 
poisonous if inhaled 
Chlorine Trioxide 
ClO3 
13932-10-0 
shock sensitive; 
explosive 
Chloroacetylene 
C2HCl 
593-63-5 
shock sensitive; air 
reactive

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
32 
Appendix A – Prohibited Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Chloroform 
CHCl3 
67-66-3 
poison; possibly 
carcinogenic to humans 
Chloropicrin 
CCl3NO2 
76-06-2 
shock sensitive; 
explosive; poison; 
inhalation hazard 
Chloroprene 
C4H5Cl 
126-99-8 
may form explosive 
peroxides; possibly 
carcinogenic to humans 
Chlorotrifluoroethylene 
C2F3Cl 
79-38-9 
may form explosive 
peroxides 
Chromic Chloride (Chromium (III) 
Chloride) 
CrCl3·6H2O 
10060-12-5 
acutely toxic; fatal if 
inhaled 
Chromium (Powder) 
Cr 
7440-47-3 
flammable; toxic 
Chromyl Chloride 
CrO2Cl2 
14977-61-8 
water-reactive; 
chromium (VI) 
compounds are 
carcinogenic to humans 
Cobalt (Powder) 
Co 
7440-48-4 
possibly carcinogenic to 
humans 
Colchicine 
C22H25NO6 
64-86-8 
acutely toxic 
Copper Acetylide 
Cu2C2 
1117-94-8 
explosive 
Cumene (Isopropylbenzene) 
C6H5CH(CH3)2 
98-82-8 
may form explosive 
peroxides upon 
concentration; possibly 
carcinogenic to humans 
Cycloheptanone 
C7H12O 
502-42-1 
may form explosive 
peroxides; flammable; 
corrosive; toxic 
Cyclohexanol 
C6H11OH 
108-93-0 
may form explosive 
peroxides upon 
concentration 
Cyclopentene 
C5H8 
142-29-0 
may form explosive 
peroxides upon 
concentration 
Diacetylene (Butadiyne) 
C4H2 
460-12-8 
may form explosive 
peroxides upon 
concentration; highly 
flammable; explosive 
Diazidoethane 
C2H4N6 
629-13-0 
explosive 
Diazodinitrophenol (DDNP) 
C6H2N4O5 
4682-03-5 
explosive

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
33 
Appendix A – Prohibited Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Diazomethane 
CH2N2 
334-88-3 
poisonous and 
flammable gas 
Dicyclopentadiene 
C10H12 
77-73-6 
may form explosive 
peroxides upon 
concentration; acutely 
toxic; fatal if inhaled; 
flammable 
Diisopropyl Ether 
C6H14O 
108-20-3 
may form explosive 
peroxides 
Dinitrophenol 
C6H3OH(NO2)2 
51-28-5 
explosive 
Dioxane 
C4H802 
123-91-1 
may form explosive 
peroxides upon 
concentration; possibly 
carcinogenic to humans 
Dipentaerythritol Hexanitrate 
(DPEHN) 
C10H16N6O19 
13184-80-0 
explosive 
Disulfur Dinitride 
S2N2 
25474-92-4 
explosive 
Divinyl Acetylene 
C6H6 
821-08-9 
may form explosive 
peroxides; acutely toxic; 
highly flammable 
Divinyl Ether 
C4H6O2 
109-93-3 
may form explosive 
peroxides; highly 
flammable 
Ethyl Ether (diethyl ether) 
(C2H5)2O 
60-29-7 
may form explosive 
peroxides upon 
concentration 
Ethyl Nitrite 
C2H5NO2 
109-95-5 
explosive 
Ethylene Glycol Dimethyl Ether 
(Glyme or 1,2-Dimethoxyethane) 
C4H10O2 
28923-39-9 
may form explosive 
peroxides upon 
concentration 
Ethylene Glycol Dinitrate (EGDN or 
1,2-Dinitroxyethane) 
C2H4N2O6 
628-96-6 
explosive 
Ethylene Oxide 
C2H4O 
75-21-8 
carcinogenic to 
humans; flammable; 
explosive; may be fatal 
if inhaled or absorbed 
through the skin 
Formaldehyde 
CH2O 
50-00-0 
carcinogenic to 
humans; 
poison; may cause 
allergic reaction

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
34 
Appendix A – Prohibited Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Furan 
C4H4O 
110-00-9 
possibly carcinogenic to 
humans; may form 
explosive peroxides 
upon concentration 
Glycerol Monolactate Trinitrate 
(GLTN) 
C6H9N3O11 
 
explosive 
Grignard Reagents and their solvents 
Note: a Grignard Reagent has a 
formula RMgX where X is a halogen 
and R is an alkyl or aryl (based on a 
benzene ring) group. An example is 
CH3CH2MgBr (ethylmagnesium 
bromide). They are typically found in 
solution with tetrahydrofuran or ether 
as the solvent. 
 
 
Both the Grignard 
Reagent and the 
solvents are hazardous. 
The Grignard Reagents 
can be highly reactive, 
corrosive, pyrophoric, 
and toxic. The solvents 
are highly flammable 
and may form explosive 
peroxides. 
Guanyl Nitrosamino Guanylidene 
Hydrazine 
 
 
explosive; strong 
oxidizer 
Hexyl Alcohol 
CH3(CH2)4CH2OH 
111-27-3 
highly flammable; 
poison 
HMX 
C4H8N8O8 
2691-41-0 
explosive 
Hydrofluoric Acid 
HF 
7664-39-3 
corrosive; may be fatal 
if inhaled or ingested; 
liquid and vapor can 
cause severe burns not 
always immediately 
painful or visible, but 
possibly fatal 
Hydrogen Peroxide (>30%) 
H2O2 
7722-84-1 
fire and explosion risk, 
severely corrosive; 
strong oxidizer 
Hydrogen Sulfide 
H2S 
7783-06-4 
highly flammable; 
exposure to very high 
concentrations causes 
immediate death; death 
or permanent injury 
may occur after very 
short exposure to small 
quantities 
Isopropyl Ether 
(Diisopropyl Ether) 
C6H14O 
108-20-3 
highly flammable; may 
form explosive 
peroxides 
Lead Dinitroresorcinate (LDNR) 
PbC6H2(NO2)2(OH)2 
 
explosive; probably 
carcinogenic to humans

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
35 
Appendix A – Prohibited Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Lead Dioxide 
(Lead (IV) Oxide or Lead Brown) 
PbO2 
1309-60-0 
toxic; probably 
carcinogenic to 
humans; will accelerate 
burning in fire; may 
explode from heat or 
contamination 
Lead Mononitroresorcinate (LMNR) 
PbC6H3NO2(OH)2 
51317-24-9 
explosive; shock 
sensitive; probably 
carcinogenic to humans 
Lead Trinitroresorcinate 
(Lead Styphnate) 
PbC6H(NO2)3(OH)2 
15245-44-0 
explosive; probably 
carcinogenic to humans 
Lithium Nitrate 
LiNO3 
7790-69-4 
oxidizer; shock 
sensitive 
Lithium Nitride 
Li3N 
26134-62-3 
highly flammable; 
powder is easily ignited 
and burns with intense 
heat; may ignite 
spontaneously in moist 
air 
Lithium Peroxide 
Li2O2 
12031-80-0 
oxidizer; toxic; 
explosive 
Magnesium 
(except Mg ribbon & turnings) 
Mg 
7439-95-4 
reacts with water to 
liberate hydrogen gas; 
flammable solid; easily 
ignited 
Magnesium Peroxide 
MgO2 
14452-57-4 
strong oxidizer 
Mannitol Hexanitrate 
C6H8N6O18 
15825-70-4 
explosive; strong 
oxidizer 
Mercury 
(except in sealed devices) 
Hg 
7439-97-6 
corrosive; poison; 
severely and subtly 
toxic 
Mercury Compounds (e.g., Nessler's 
Reagent, mercuric chloride, mercuric 
potassium iodide, mercuric fluoride) 
 
 
poison; severely and 
subtly toxic 
Methyl Acetylene 
C3H4 
74-99-7 
highly flammable; may 
form explosive 
peroxides upon 
concentration 
Methyl Cyclopentane 
C6H12 
96-37-7 
highly flammable 
Methyl Isocyanate 
CH3NCO 
624-83-9 
water-reactive; highly 
flammable; 
polymerizable

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
36 
Appendix A – Prohibited Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Methyl MethacrylateMonomer 
C5H8O2 
80-62-6 
may form explosive 
peroxides; flammable; 
explosive (vapor) 
meta-Trinitrocresol 
(3-Methyl-2,4,6-trinitrophenol) 
C7H5N3O7 
602-99-3 
explosive; strong 
oxidizer 
Nessler's Reagent 
(Mercuric Potassium Iodide and 
Sodium Hydroxide) 
Hg+KI+NaOH 
7783-33-7 
 
Nicotine 
C10H14N2 
54-11-5 
poison; acutely toxic 
Nitroglycerin 
C3H5N3O9 
55-63-0 
explosive; strong 
oxidizer 
Nitrosoguanidine 
C2H5N5O3 
70-25-7 
explosive; highly 
flammable; water-
reactive; decomposes 
at elevated 
temperatures 
Osmic Acid (Osmium Tetroxide) 
OsO4 
20816-12-0 
acutely toxic; may be 
fatal if inhaled or 
ingested 
ortho-Toluidine (e.g., Toluidine Blue) 
C7H9N 
95-53-4 
carcinogenic to 
humans; poison 
Pentaerythrite Tetranitrate 
(PETN) 
C5H8N4O12 
78-11-5 
explosive; strong 
oxidizer 
Perchloric Acid 
HClO4 
7601-90-3 
strong oxidizing agent; 
corrosive; contact with 
organics may result in 
explosion; can cause 
serious or permanent 
injury 
Phenol 
C6H6O 
108-95-2 
combustible; corrosive; 
may be fatal if inhaled, 
ingested, or absorbed 
through skin 
Phenyl Thiourea 
C7H8N2S 
103-85-5 
extremely toxic; poison; 
emits toxic fumes when 
heated 
Phosphorus (yellow or white) 
P 
7723-14-0 
flammable solid; self-
ignition possible; 
evolves dangerous gas 
if burned

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
37 
Appendix A – Prohibited Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Phosphorus Halides 
and Oxides (e.g., phosphorus 
trichloride, phosphorus trioxide, 
phosphorus, pentabromide) 
 
 
water-reactive; 
corrosive; toxic 
Phosphides (e.g., magnesium 
aluminum phosphide, potassium 
phosphide, sodium phosphide) 
 
 
poison; water-reactive 
Phthalic Anhydride 
C8H4O3 
85-44-9 
explosive; water- 
reactive 
Picramide 
C6H4N4O6 
489-98-5 
explosive; strong 
oxidizing agent 
Picrates 
and Picryl Compounds 
(e.g.,ammonium picrate, lead picrate, 
potassium picrate, picryl sulfonic acid, 
picryl chloride) 
 
 
explosive 
Picric Acid (2,4,6-Trinitrophenol) 
C6H3N3O7 
88-89-1 
extremely reactive; 
explosive when dry 
para-Nitrophenol 
(4-Nitrophenol) 
NO2C6H4OH 
100-02-7 
poison; forms explosive 
mixtures 
Polyvinyl Nitrate 
(PVN or polyethenyl nitrate) 
(C2H3NO3)n 
 
explosive; shock 
sensitive 
Potassium Amide 
KNH2 
17242-52-3 
may form explosive 
peroxides 
Potassium Cyanide 
KCN 
151-50-8 
acutely toxic 
Potassium Dinitrobenzofuroxan 
(KDNBF) 
KC6H2N4O6 
29267-75-2 
explosive 
Potassium Nitrite 
KNO2 
7758-09-0 
strong oxidizer 
Potassium Perchlorate 
KClO4 
7778-74-7 
explosive 
Potassium Periodate 
KIO4 
7790-21-8 
strong oxidizer 
Potassium Peroxide 
K2O2 
17014-71-0 
water-reactive; strong 
oxidizer 
Potassium Superoxide 
KO2 
12030-88-5 
water-reactive; strong 
oxidizer 
RDX 
C3H6N6O6 
121-82-4 
explosive 
Silanes and Chlorosilanes 
(e.g., silane; dichlorosilane; 
tetramethylsilane; trichlorosilane) 
 
 
flammable; reactive; 
highly toxic

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
38 
Appendix A – Prohibited Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Silicon Tetrachloride 
SiCl4 
10026-04-7 
air- and water-reactive; 
corrosive 
Silver Acetylide 
Ag2C2 
13092-75-6 
explosive; shock 
sensitive 
Silver Cyanide 
AgCN 
506-64-9 
acutely toxic; may be 
fatal if inhaled, 
ingested, or absorbed 
through skin 
Silver Dinitroresorcinate 
(Silver Styphnate) 
Ag2C6H(NO3)2(OH)2 
 
reactive; ignitable; 
shock sensitive 
Silver Fulminate 
AgCNO 
5610-59-3 
explosive 
Silver Cyanate 
AgOCN 
3315-16-0 
toxic 
Silver Nitride 
Ag3N 
20737-02-4 
shock sensitive; 
explosive 
Silver Oxalate 
Ag2C2O4 
533-51-7 
shock sensitive 
Silver Tetrazene 
shock sensitive 
Sodium Amide 
NaNH2 
7782-92-5 
may form explosive 
peroxides; water- 
reactive; highly 
flammable 
Sodium Chlorate 
NaClO3 
7775-09-9 
oxidizer; explosive 
Sodium Chlorite 
NaClO2 
7758-19-2 
oxidizer; explosive 
Sodium Cyanide 
NaCN 
143-33-9 
acutely toxic 
Sodium Dithionite (Sodium 
Hydrosulfite) 
Na2S2O4 
7775-14-6 
spontaneously 
combustible; water-
reactive; pyrophoric 
Sodium Methylate 
NaCH3O 
124-41-4 
spontaneously 
combustible; water-
reactive; pyrophoric 
Sodium Perborate 
NaBO3 
7632-04-4 
air- and water- reactive; 
explosive 
Sodium Perchlorate 
NaClO4 
7601-89-0 
oxidizer; water-reactive; 
explosive 
Sodium Permanganate 
NaMnO4 
10101-50-5 
oxidizer; explosive

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
39 
Appendix A – Prohibited Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Sodium Peroxide 
Na2O2 
1313-60-6 
oxidizer; water- 
reactive; toxic; 
explosion and fire risk in 
combination with 
powdered metals and 
organics 
Strontium Perchlorate 
SrCl2O8 
13450-97-0 
shock sensitive 
Styrene Monomer 
C8H8 
100-42-5 
highly flammable; may 
form explosive 
peroxides; 
polymerizable 
Sulfur Trioxide 
SO3 
7446-11-9 
air- and water-reactive; 
corrosive; poison; 
inhalation hazard 
Sulfuryl Chloride 
(Sulfonyl Chloride) 
Cl2O2S 
7791-25-5 
air- and water-reactive; 
corrosive; poison; 
inhalation hazard 
Sulfuryl Chloride Fluoride 
ClFO2S 
13637-84-8 
poison; water-reactive; 
corrosive 
tert-butyl Hypochlorite 
C4H9ClO 
507-40-4 
spontaneously 
combustible; 
pyrophoric; fire will 
produce irritating, 
corrosive, and/or toxic 
gases 
Tetrafluoroethylene 
C2F4 
116-14-3 
may form explosive 
peroxides; highly 
flammable; probably 
carcinogenic to humans 
Tetrahydrofuran 
C4H8O 
109-99-9 
highly flammable; 
oxidizes in air to form 
explosive peroxides 
Tetrahydronaphthalene 
C10H12 
119-64-2 
highly flammable; 
vapors may form 
explosive mixtures with 
air; may form explosive 
peroxides upon 
concentration 
Tetranitromethane 
CN4O8 
509-14-8 
oxidizer; poison; 
possibly carcinogenic to 
humans; inhalation 
hazard; explosive 
Tetraselenium Tetranitride 
Se4N4 
12033-88-4 
shock sensitive

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
40 
Appendix A – Prohibited Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Tetrazene 
(tetrazolyl guanyltetrazene hydrate) 
C2H6N10·H2O 
31330-63-9 
shock sensitive; 
explosive 
Tetryl (2,4,6-
trinitrophenylmethylnitroamine) 
C7H5N5O8 
479-45-8 
oxidizer; explosive 
Thallium Nitride 
Tl3N 
12033-67-9 
shock sensitive 
Thermit (example: could be a mixture 
of aluminum powder, iron oxide, ferro 
managanese, and ferro vanadium) 
 
 
flammable solid; 
dangerous fire risk; 
once started, reaction is 
very difficult to stop 
Thermite Igniting Mixture (example: 
could be a mixture of aluminum, 
barium nitrate, iron oxide and a binder 
such as dextrin on a copper stick) 
 
 
becomes a fire hazard if 
exposed to a flame or 
high temperatures 
Thiocarbonyl Tetrachloride 
(Perchloromethyl Mercaptan) 
CCl4S 
594-42-3 
poison; inhalation 
hazard 
Thionyl Chloride 
SOCl2 
7719-09-7 
violently water-reactive; 
lachrymator; highly 
corrosive; toxic 
Titanium (Powder) 
Ti 
7440-32-6 
spontaneously 
combustible; may ignite 
on contact with moist air 
or moisture 
Titanium Tetrachloride 
TiCl4 
7550-45-0 
water-reactive; 
corrosive; acutely toxic; 
may be fatal if inhaled 
Triethyl Aluminum 
(C2H5)3Al 
97-93-8 
spontaneously 
combustible; flammable 
gas is produced on 
contact with water 
Triisobutyl Aluminum 
(C4H9)3Al 
100-99-2 
spontaneously 
combustible; reacts 
violently with water 
producing flammable 
gas 
Trimethyl Aluminum 
(CH3)3Al 
75-24-1 
spontaneously 
combustible; flammable 
gas is produced on 
contact with water 
Trinitroanisole 
C7H5N3O7 
606-35-9 
explosive; strong 
oxidizer 
Trinitrobenzene 
C6H3N3O6 
99-35-4 
explosive; flammable 
solid; strong oxidizer

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
41 
Appendix A – Prohibited Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Trinitrobenzoic Acid 
C7H3N3O8 
129-66-8 or 
35860-50-5 
explosive; highly 
flammable; strong 
oxidizer 
Trinitronaphthalene 
(1,3,5-Trinitronaphthalene) 
C10H5N3O6 
2243-94-9 
explosive; strong 
oxidizer 
Trinitroresorcinol 
C6H3N308 
82-71-3 
explosive; strong 
oxidizer 
Trinitrotoluene (TNT or 2,4,6-
Trinitrotoluene) 
C7H5N3O6 
118-96-7 
explosive; strong 
oxidizer 
Uranium and Uranium Compounds 
(e.g., uranium oxide, Uranyl Acetate, 
Uranyl Nitrate, uranium hexafluoride, 
uranium tetrafluoride) 
 
 
toxic by inhalation or 
ingestion 
Urea Nitrate 
CH4N2O.HNO3 
124-47-0 
explosive; strong 
oxidizer 
Vinyl Acetate 
C4H6O2 
108-05-4 
may form explosive 
peroxides; possibly 
carcinogenic to 
humans; reactive 
Vinyl Acetylene 
C4H4 
689-97-4 
may form explosive 
peroxides; reactive 
Vinyl Chloride 
C2H3Cl 
75-01-4 
carcinogenic to 
humans; may form 
explosive peroxides; 
reactive 
Vinyl Ethers (e.g., divinyl ether; 2-
chloroethylvinyl ether; butyl vinyl 
ether) 
 
 
may form explosive 
peroxides upon 
concentration 
Vinylidene Chloride 
(1,1-Dichloroethene or 1,1-DCE) 
C2H2Cl2 
75-35-4 
may form explosive 
peroxides 
Zinc Peroxide 
ZnO2 
1314-22-3 
oxidizer; used as an 
oxidant in explosives; 
toxic 
* The hazard information provided for the listed chemicals is not intended to address all safety concerns. 
Before attempting to work with any chemical, review and comply with information provided on the SDS.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
42 
Appendix B – Restricted Chemicals 
Appendix B – Restricted Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Shelf Life1 
2-Butanone  
(Methyl Ethyl Ketone or 
MEK) 
CH3COC2H5 
78-93-3 
highly flammable; 
may form explosive 
peroxides 
Good 
Acetamide 
CH3CONH2 
60-35-5 
possibly 
carcinogenic to 
humans 
Poor; 
deliquescent 
Acetanilide  
(n-Phenylacetamide or 
Acetamidobenzene) 
CH3CONHC6H5 
103-84-4 
combustible; irritant 
Indefinite 
Acetic Acid 
CH3COOH 
64-19-7 
flammable; 
corrosive 
Good 
Acetic Anhydride 
(CH3CO)2O 
108-24-7 
water-reactive; 
corrosive; 
flammable 
Good 
Acetone 
CH3COCH3 
67-64-1 
highly flammable; 
inhalation hazard 
Good 
Acetylcholine Bromide 
C7H16BrNO2 
66-23-9 
toxic; irritant 
Good 
Acridine Orange 
C17H19N3 
10127-02-3 
irritant 
Fair 
Adipoyl Chloride 
ClOC(CH2)4COCl 
111-50-2 
corrosive 
Poor 
Alizarin Red 
C14H7NaO7S 
130-22-3 
toxic 
Indefinite 
Alkyl Aluminum Chloride 
Unavailable 
Unavailable 
water reactive 
Poor; 
deliquescent 
Aluminum (Powder) 
Al 
7429-90-5 
water-reactive; 
strong reducing 
agent; pyrophoric 
Indefinite 
Aluminum Acetate 
Al(C2H3O2)2OH 
142-03-0 
toxic 
Good 
Aluminum Bromide 
AlBr3 
7727-15-3 
air- and water-
reactive; corrosive 
Fair 
Aluminum Chloride 
Hexahydrate 
AlCl3·6H2O 
7784-13-6 
water-reactive; 
corrosive 
Poor; 
deliquescent 
Aluminum Fluoride 
AlF3 
7784-18-1 
water-reactive; 
corrosive; inhalation 
hazard 
Fair 
Aluminum Hydroxide  
Al(OH)3 
21645-51-2 
possibly toxic 
Indefinite 
Aluminum Nitrate 
Al(NO3)3·9H2O 
7784-27-2 
strong oxidizer 
Indefinite

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
43 
Appendix B – Restricted Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Shelf Life1 
Aluminum 
Tetrahydroborate 
(Aluminum Borohyrdide) 
Al(BH4)3 
16962-07-5 
poison; air- and 
water–reactive; 
pyrophoric; strong 
reducing agent 
Fair 
Ammonia, Anhydrous  
NH3 
7664-41-7 
poison; water-
reactive; inhalation 
hazard; corrosive 
Indefinite 
Ammonia Solutions in 
Water 
NH3 
7664-41-7 
corrosive; reactive; 
toxic 
Indefinite 
Ammonium Acetate 
NH4C2H3O2 
631-61-8 
inhalation hazard; 
irritant 
Poor; 
deliquescent 
Ammonium Bicarbonate 
NH4HCO3 
1066-33-7 
inhalation hazard; 
irritant 
Good 
Ammonium Dichromate 
(NH4)2Cr2O7 
7789-09-5 
chromium (VI) 
compounds are 
carcinogenic to 
humans; strong 
oxidizer; poison 
Fair 
Ammonium Bromide 
NH4Br 
12124-97-9 
inhalation hazard; 
irritant 
Fair to poor; 
hygroscopic 
Ammonium Carbonate 
NH4CO3 
10361-29-2 
inhalation hazard; 
irritant 
Indefinite 
Ammonium Chloride 
NH4Cl 
12125-02-9 
toxic; inhalation 
hazard; irritant 
Fair to poor; 
hygroscopic 
Ammonium Chromate 
(NH4)2CrO4 
7788-98-9 
chromium (VI) 
compounds are 
carcinogenic to 
humans; strong 
oxidizer; poison 
Indefinite 
Ammonium Fluoride 
NH4F 
12125-01-8 
corrosive; toxic 
Fair to poor; 
substance is 
deliquescent 
Ammonium Hydroxide 
NH4OH 
1336-21-6 
inhalation hazard; 
severely corrosive 
Indefinite 
Ammonium Iodide 
NH4I 
12027-06-4 
inhalation hazard 
Poor; very 
hygroscopic 
Ammonium Molybdate 
Tetrahydrate  
(NH4)6Mo7O24·4H2O 
12054-85-2 
toxic 
Indefinite

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
44 
Appendix B – Restricted Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Shelf Life1 
Ammonium Nitrate  
(500 g limit) 
NH4NO3 
6484-52-2 
shock sensitive; 
oxidizer 
Poor 
Ammonium Oxalate 
Monohydrate 
(NH4)2C2O4·H2O 
6009-70-7 
corrosive; toxic 
Indefinite 
Ammonium Phosphate, 
Dibasic (Diammonium 
Hydrogen Phosphate 
(NH4)2HPO4 
7783-28-0 
respiratory hazard; 
potential for skin 
and eye damage 
Indefinite 
Ammonium Phosphate, 
Monobasic (Ammonium 
Dihydrogen Phosphate) 
NH4H2PO4 
7722-76-1 
respiratory hazard; 
potential for skin 
and eye damage 
Indefinite 
Ammonium Sulfate 
(NH4)2SO4 
7783-20-2 
respiratory hazard 
Indefinite 
Ammonium Sulfide 
(NH4)2S 
12135-76-1 
respiratory hazard; 
corrosive; poison; 
flammable 
Good 
Ammonium Tartrate 
(NH4)2C4H4O6 
3164-29-2 
irritant 
Fair 
Ammonium Thiocyanate 
NH4SCN 
1762-95-4 
inhalation hazard; 
strong reducing 
agent 
Poor; 
deliquescent 
Amyl Acetate 
CH3COOC5H11 
628-63-7 
flammable; toxic 
Good 
Aniline 
C6H5NH2 
62-53-3 
acutely toxic 
Poor 
Aniline Hydrochloride 
C6H5NH2·HCl 
142-04-1 
corrosive; acutely 
toxic 
Poor 
Anisoyl Chloride 
(Methyoxybenzoyl 
Chloride) 
C8H7ClO2 
100-07-2 
air- and water- 
reactive; corrosive; 
Fair 
Barium Acetate 
Ba(C2H3O2)2 
543-80-6 
acutely toxic 
Indefinite 
Barium Carbide 
BaC2 
50813-65-5 
water–reactive; 
toxic 
Fair 
Barium Chloride, Dihydrate 
BaCl2·2H2O 
10326-27-9 
poison; acutely 
toxic 
Indefinite 
Barium Nitrate 
Ba(NO3)2 
10022-31-8 
oxidizer; toxic 
Indefinite 
Benzaldehyde 
C6H5CHO 
100-52-7 
combustible 
Fair 
Benzene Phosphorus 
Dichloride 
C6H5PCl2 
644-97-3 
air-and water-
reactive; fumes in 
air; corrosive 
Fair 
Benzoic Acid 
C6H5COOH 
65-85-0 
concentrated dust 
may form explosive 
mixture 
Indefinite

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
45 
Appendix B – Restricted Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Shelf Life1 
Benzyl Chloride 
C6H5CH2Cl 
100-44-7 
probably 
carcinogenic to 
humans; poison; 
corrosive; toxic; 
lachrymator; 
releases toxic 
fumes when heated 
Fair 
Benzylsodium 
C7H7Na 
1121-53-5 
water reactive; 
ignites 
spontaneously in 
air; 
Fair 
Benzylamine 
(Benzenemethanamine) 
C6H5CH2NH2 
100-46-9 
corrosive; poison; 
combustible 
Fair 
Beryllium Tetrahydroborate 
Be(BH4)2 
17440-85-6 
violently air- and 
water-reactive; 
beryllium 
compounds are 
carcinogenic to 
humans 
Fair 
Biphenyl (Diphenyl) 
C6H5C6H5 
92-52-4 
irritant; combustible 
Limited; refer 
to expiration 
date on label 
Bismuth Pentafluoride 
BiF5 
7787-62-4 
water–reactive; 
toxic 
Fair 
Boric Acid 
H3BO3 
10043-35-3 
harmful if 
swallowed 
Indefinite 
Boron Bromide Diiodide 
BBrI2 
14355-21-6 
violently water-
reactive 
Fair 
Boron Dibromoiodide 
BBr2I 
unavailable 
violently water-
reactive 
Fair 
Boron Phosphide 
BP 
20205-91-8 
water-reactive 
Fair 
Boron Trichloride 
BCl3 
13517-10-7 
water-reactive; toxic 
Fair 
Bromine Fluoride 
BrF 
13863-59-7 
water-reactive 
Fair 
Bromine Water 
Br2 + H2O 
7726-95-6 
corrosive; irritating 
fumes; toxic 
Indefinite 
Bromobenzene 
C6H5Br 
108-86-1 
highly flammable; 
toxic 
Indefinite 
Bromodiethylaluminum 
C4H10AlBr 
760-19-0 
water-reactive 
Fair 
Bromoform 
CHBr3 
75-25-2 
poison; lachrymator 
Good

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
46 
Appendix B – Restricted Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Shelf Life1 
Butanol  
(n-Butyl Alcohol) 
CH3(CH2)3OH 
71-36-3 
highly flammable; 
toxic 
Fair 
Butyric Acid 
CH3CH2CH2COOH 
107-92-6 
corrosive; 
combustible; stench 
agent; lachrymator 
Indefinite 
Calcium (100 g limit) 
Ca 
7440-70-2 
water-reactive; 
flammable solid 
Good 
Calcium Bromide 
CaBr2 
7789-41-5 
toxic 
Good 
Calcium Hypochlorite 
Ca(ClO)2 
7778-54-3 
strong oxidizer; 
reactive; toxic 
Fair to poor 
Calcium Nitrate 
Tetrahydrate 
Ca(NO3)2·4H2O 
13477-34-4 
strong oxidizer; 
shock sensitive 
Fair to poor; 
deliquescent 
Calcium Phosphide  
(CP) 
Ca3P2 
1305-99-3 
violently air- and 
water- reactive; 
strong reducing 
agent; poison 
Fair 
Camphor  
C10H16O 
76-22-2 
toxic; flammable 
solid; combustible 
Indefinite 
Carbon Disulfide (Carbon 
Bisulfide) 
CS2 
75-15-0 
highly flammable; 
poison; severe fire 
risk 
Indefinite 
Cerium (IV) Sulfate 
(Ceric Sulfate) 
Ce(SO4)2 
13590-82-4 
strong oxidizer; 
corrosive; irritant 
Limited; refer 
to expiration 
date on label 
Cesium Amide 
CsH2N 
22205-57-8 
water-reactive 
Fair 
Cesium Phosphide 
Cs3P 
113737-02-
3 
water-reactive 
Fair 
Chlorine Fluoride 
ClF 
7790-89-8 
strong oxidizer; 
water-reactive 
Fair 
Chlorine Pentafluoride 
CIF5 
13637-63-3 
water-reactive 
Fair 
Chloroacetic Acid 
C2H3ClO2 
79-11-8 
acutely toxic; 
corrosive 
Indefinite 
Chloroacetyl Chloride 
C2H2Cl2O 
79-04-9 
air- and water-
reactive; corrosive; 
poison; inhalation 
hazard 
Good

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
47 
Appendix B – Restricted Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Shelf Life1 
Chlorobenzene 
C6H5Cl 
108-90-7 
highly flammable; 
inhalation hazard 
Limited; refer 
to expiration 
date on label 
Chlorodiisobutyl Aluminum 
(Diisobutylaluminum 
Chloride) 
C8H18AlCl 
1779-25-5 
water-reactive; 
highly flammable 
Fair 
2-Chlorophenyl Isocyanate 
C7H4ClNO 
3320-83-0 
poison; highly 
flammable 
Fair 
Chromic Acid 
CrO3 
1333-82-0 
chromium (VI) 
compounds are 
carcinogenic to 
humans; strong 
oxidizer; poison 
Poor 
Chromium (III) Nitrate 
Nonahydrate (Chromium 
Trinitrate) 
Cr(NO3)3·9H2O 
7789-02-8 
oxidizer; toxic 
Good 
Chromium (III) Sulfate 
(Chromic Sulfate) 
Cr2(SO4)3·nH2O 
10101-53-8 
corrosive; toxic 
Indefinite 
Chromium Trioxide 
CrO3 
1333-82-0 
chromium (VI) 
compounds are 
carcinogenic to 
humans; strong 
oxidizer; poison 
Poor 
Cobalt (II) Nitrate 
Hexahydrate (Cobaltous 
Nitrate)  
Co(NO3)2·6H2O 
10026-22-9 
cobalt and cobalt 
compounds are 
possibly 
carcinogenic to 
humans; acutely 
toxic 
Poor; 
deliquescent 
Copper (II) Bromide 
(Cupric Bromide, 
Anhydrous) 
CuBr2 
7789-45-9 
toxic; irritant 
Poor; 
deliquescent 
Cyclohexane 
CH2(CH2)4CH2 
110-82-7 
highly flammable; 
poison 
Indefinite 
Dichloromethane 
(Methylene Dichloride) 
CH2Cl2 
75-09-2 
probably 
carcinogenic to 
humans; poison 
Good 
Diethyl Aluminum Chloride 
C4H10AlCl 
96-10-6 
water-reactive; 
highly flammable; 
inhalation hazard 
Fair

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
48 
Appendix B – Restricted Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Shelf Life1 
Diethyl Zinc (DEZ) 
C4H10Zn 
557-20-0 
air- and water-
reactive; highly 
flammable 
Fair 
Diisopropyl Beryllium 
C6H14Be 
15721-33-2 
water-reactive; 
beryllium 
compounds are 
carcinogenic to 
humans 
Fair 
Dimethyl Magnesium 
C2H6Mg 
2999-74-8 
air- and water-
reactive; 
spontaneously 
flammable in air 
Fair 
Diphenylmethane-4,4- 
Diisocyanate 
C15H10N2O2 
101-68-8 
Poison 
Poor 
Diphenylamine 
(C6H5)2NH 
122-39-4 
Poison 
Indefinite 
Ethanol (Ethyl Alcohol) 
C2H5OH 
64-17-5 
highly flammable 
Indefinite 
Ethyl Acetate 
CH3COOC2H5 
141-78-6 
highly flammable; 
toxic; may form 
explosive peroxides 
Good 
Ethyl Methacrylate 
CH2CCH3COOC2 
97-63-2 
highly flammable; 
polymerizable 
Poor 
Ethylene Dichloride  
(1,2-Dichloroethane) 
C2H4Cl2 
107-06-2 
highly flammable; 
possibly 
carcinogenic to 
humans; poison; 
emits toxic gases if 
heated or burned 
Poor 
Ethylenediamine 
NH2CH2CH2NH2 
107-15-3 
highly 
flammable;air-
reactive; corrosive 
Poor 
FAA Solution  
(Formalin-Aceto-Alcohol 
Solution) 
 
 
flammable; acutely 
toxic; carcinogenic 
to humans 
Good 
Fehlings Solution A 
(Copper (II) Sulfate and 
Water) 
 
 
acutely toxic 
Fair 
Fehlings Solution B 
(Sodium Hydroxide; 
Potassium Sodium 
Tartrate; and Water) 
 
 
caustic; toxic 
Fair 
Ferric Chloride, Anhydrous 
(Iron (III) Chloride) 
FeCl3 
7705-08-0 
corrosive; inhalation 
hazard 
Poor

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
49 
Appendix B – Restricted Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Shelf Life1 
Ferric Nitrate Nonahydrate 
(Iron (III) Nitrate 
Nonahydrate) 
Fe(NO3)3·9H2O 
7782-61-8 
strong oxidizer; 
irritant; explosion 
hazard with heat 
Good 
Fluorine Monoxide  
(Oxygen Difluoride) 
F2O 
7783-41-7 
strong oxidizer; air- 
and water-reactive; 
poison; corrosive 
Fair 
Fluorosulfonic Acid 
HSO3F 
7789-21-1 
corrosive; air- and 
water-reactive 
Fair 
Formalin 
CH2O 
50-00-0 
toxic; corrosive; 
carcinogenic to 
humans 
Indefinite 
Formic Acid 
HCOOH 
64-18-6 
flammable; 
corrosive 
Poor 
Gasoline 
UNDEFINED 
8006-61-9 
or 86290-
81-5 
highly flammable; 
possibly 
carcinogenic to 
humans 
Poor 
Glutaraldehyde 
OCH(CH2)3CHO 
111-30-8 
water-reactive; toxic 
Indefinite 
Gold Acetylide 
C2Au2 
70950-00-4 
explosive; shock 
sensitive; water 
reactive 
Fair 
Hematoxylin 
C16H14O6 
517-28-2 
toxic 
Fair 
n-Heptane 
CH3(CH2)5CH3 
142-82-5 
highly flammable; 
toxic 
Good 
Hexamethylene 
Diisocyanate (HDI) 
C8H12N2O2 
822-06-0 
water-reactive; toxic 
Fair 
Hexamethylenediamine  
(1, 6-Diaminohexane) 
H2N(CH2)6NH2 
124-09-4 
corrosive; toxic 
Indefinite 
n-Hexane 
CH3(CH2)4CH3 
110-54-3 
highly flammable; 
toxic 
Good 
Hydriodic Acid 
HI 
10034-85-2 
acutely toxic; 
corrosive 
Fair 
Hydrobromic Acid 
HBr 
10035-10-6 
acutely toxic; water-
reactive; corrosive 
Fair 
Hydrochloric Acid (Muriatic 
Acid) 
HCl 
7647-01-0 
toxic; severely 
corrosive 
Good

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
50 
Appendix B – Restricted Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Shelf Life1 
Hydrogen Peroxide (30% 
or less) 
H2O2 
7722-84-1 
readily decomposes 
with almost 
anything; strong 
oxidizer; explosion 
hazard; corrosive 
Fair 
Hydroquinone (Benzene-1, 
4-diol) 
C6H4(OH)2 
123-31-9 
toxic 
Poor 
Hydroxylamine 
Hydrochloride 
NH2OH·HCl 
5470-11-1 
toxic; strong 
reducing agent 
Poor 
Iodine 
I2 
7553-56-2 
poison; strong 
oxidizing agent 
Fair 
Iodine Monochloride 
(Chlorine Iodide) 
ICl 
7790-99-0 
toxic; water-and air-
reactive; strong 
oxidizing agent; 
corrosive 
Poor 
Iron (powder) 
Fe 
7439-89-6 
metal dust may 
present a fire 
hazard and a health 
hazard 
Good 
Isoamyl Alcohol (3-Methyl-
1-butanol or Isopentyl 
Alcohol) 
(CH3)2CHCH2CHOH 
123-51-3 
highly flammable; 
toxic 
Fair 
Isobutyl Alcohol 
(CH3)2CHCH2OH 
78-83-1 
highly flammable; 
toxic 
Indefinite 
Isopropyl Alcohol 
(CH3)2CHOH 
67-63-0 
highly flammable; 
toxic; may form 
explosive peroxides 
Fair 
Kerosene 
UNDEFINED 
8008-20-6 
highly flammable; 
toxic 
Indefinite 
Lead Nitrate 
Pb(NO3)2 
10099-74-8 
oxidizer; toxic; 
probably 
carcinogenic to 
humans 
Indefinite 
Lead Tetraoxide, (Red 
Lead Oxide) 
Pb3O4 
1314-41-6 
oxidizer; acutely 
toxic; probably 
carcinogenic to 
humans 
Indefinite 
Lithium Amide 
LiNH2 
7782-89-0 
water-reactive; 
toxic; flammable; 
dangerous fire and 
explosion hazard 
Fair

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
51 
Appendix B – Restricted Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Shelf Life1 
Lithium Bromide 
LiBr 
7550-35-8 
acutely toxic 
Good 
Lithium Ferrosilicon 
Fe-Si·Li 
70399-13-2 
water-reactive; 
acutely toxic; highly 
flammable 
Fair 
Lithium Silicon 
Li·Si 
68848-64-6 
water-and air-
reactive; acutely 
toxic; strong 
reducing agent 
Fair 
Lithium Sulfate 
Li2SO4·H2O 
10102-25-7 
toxic 
Indefinite 
Magnesium (ribbon) 
Mg 
7439-95-4 
flammable solid; 
water-reactive 
Indefinite 
Magnesium Nitrate 
Hexahydrate 
Mg(NO3)2·6H2O 
13446-18-9 
oxidizer; toxic 
Good 
Manganese Carbonate 
MnCO3 
598-62-9 
toxic 
Good 
Manganese Dioxide 
(Manganese Black; 
Manganese Oxide; 
Manganese Peroxide; 
Manganese Superoxide) 
MnO2 
1313-13-9 
toxic 
Indefinite 
Manganese (II) Nitrate 
Hexahydrate  (Manganous 
Nitrate Hexahydrate) 
Mn(NO3)2·6H2O 
10377-66-9 
strong oxidizer; 
toxic 
Indefinite 
Methyl Alcohol (Methanol) 
CH3OH 
67-56-1 
highly flammable; 
toxic 
Good 
Methyl Aluminum 
Sesquibromide 
C3H9Al2Br3 
12263-85-3 
water-and air-
reactive; toxic; 
dangerous fire and 
explosion hazard 
Fair 
Methyl Aluminum 
Sesquichloride 
C3H9Al2Cl3 
12542-85-7 
water-and air-
reactive; toxic; 
dangerous fire and 
explosion hazard 
Fair 
Methyl Chloride 
(Chloromethane) 
CH3CI 
74-87-3 
highly flammable; 
toxic 
Indefinite 
Naphthalene (Moth Balls, 
Moth Flakes) 
C10H8 
91-20-3 
possibly 
carcinogenic to 
humans; highly 
flammable 
Poor 
1-Naphthol (alpha-
Naphthol) 
C10H7OH 
90-15-3 
toxic 
Indefinite

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
52 
Appendix B – Restricted Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Shelf Life1 
 n-Butyllithium 
C4H9Li 
109-72-8 
spontaneously 
flammable in air; 
toxic 
Limited; refer 
to expiration 
date on label 
Nickel (II) Nitrate 
Hexahydrate 
Ni(NO3)2·6H2O 
13478-00-7 
nickel compounds 
are carcinogenic to 
humans; oxidizer 
Poor 
Nickel (II) Sulfate 
Hexahydrate 
NiSO4·6H2O 
10101-97-0 
nickel compounds 
are carcinogenic to 
humans 
Good 
Nitric Acid 
HNO3 
7697-37-2 
acutely toxic; strong 
oxidizer; water-and 
air-reactive 
Fair 
Nitrobenzene 
C6H5NO2 
98-95-3 
possibly 
carcinogenic to 
humans; acutely 
toxic; flammable 
Fair 
Nitrogen 
N2 
7727-37-9 
may displace 
oxygen, which 
could cause 
asphyxiation;  
compressed gas 
cylinder hazards; 
liquid nitrogen 
presents a low 
temperature 
hazards 
Indefinite 
Octyl Alcohol (Octanol or 
Caprylic Alcohol) 
CH3(CH2)6CH2OH 
111-87-5 
flammable; toxic 
Limited; refer 
to expiration 
date on label 
 ortho-Dichlorobenzene (1, 
2-Dichlorobenzene) 
C6H4Cl2 
95-50-1 
flammable; toxic 
Fair to poor 
Oxalic Acid,  Dihydrate 
(Ethanedioic Acid) 
H2C2O4·2H2O 
6153-56-6 
acutely toxic 
Indefinite 
Oxygen 
O2 
7782-44-7 
strong oxidizer; fire 
and explosion 
hazard; 
compressed gas 
cylinder hazards 
Indefinite 
 para-Dichlorobenzene (1, 
4-Dichlorobenzene 
C6H4Cl2 
106-46-7 
possibly 
carcinogenic to 
humans; flammable 
Fair to poor 
Pentyl Alcohol (Amyl 
Alcohol or Pentanol) 
CH3(CH2)4OH 
71-41-0 
highly flammable; 
toxic 
Poor

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
53 
Appendix B – Restricted Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Shelf Life1 
Petroleum Ether  
(500  mL limit) 
UNDEFINED 
Unavailable 
highly flammable; 
toxic 
Indefinite 
Phosphoric Acid 
H3PO4 
7664-38-2 
toxic; corrosive 
Good 
Phthalic Acid (1, 2-
Benzenedicarboxylic Acid) 
C6H4(COOH)2 
88-99-3 
combustible; toxic 
Limited; refer 
to expiration 
date on label 
 Polymethylene Polyphenyl 
Isocyanate (Polymeric 
Diphenylmethane 
Diisocyanate or MDI) 
(C8H5NO)n 
9016-87-9 
water reactive; toxic 
Fair 
Polyvinyl Alcohol 
CH2CH(OH) 
9002-89-5 
combustible; toxic 
Indefinite 
Potassium Bromate 
KBrO3 
7758-01-2 
possibly 
carcinogenic to 
humans 
Indefinite 
Potassium Chromate 
K2CrO4 
7789-00-6 
chromium (VI) 
compounds are 
carcinogenic to 
humans; strong 
oxidizer; poison 
Indefinite 
Potassium Dichromate 
(Potassium Bichromate) 
K2Cr2O7 
7778-50-9 
chromium (VI) 
compounds are 
carcinogenic to 
humans; strong 
oxidizer; poison 
Indefinite 
Potassium Ferricyanide 
(Red Prussiate) 
K3Fe(CN)6 
13746-66-2 
contact with acids 
liberates toxic gas 
Fair 
Potassium Ferrocyanide 
(Tetrapotassium 
Hexacyanoferrate or 
Yellow Prussiate) 
K4Fe(CN)6·3H2O 
14459-95-1 
toxic; contact with 
acids liberates toxic 
gas 
Fair to poor 
Potassium Hydroxide 
(Potash Lye) 
KOH 
1310-58-3 
corrosive; toxic 
Fair 
Potassium Iodate 
KIO3 
7758-05-6 
oxidizer; toxic 
Indefinite 
Potassium Nitrate 
KNO3 
7757-79-1 
strong oxidizer 
Good 
Potassium Permanganate 
KMnO4 
7722-64-7 
strong oxidizer; 
explodes on sudden 
heating 
Indefinite 
Potassium Persulfate 
K2S2O8 
7727-21-1 
strong oxidizer; 
toxic 
Fair to poor; 
deliquescent

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
54 
Appendix B – Restricted Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Shelf Life1 
Potassium Sulfide 
K2S 
1312-73-8 
pyrophoric; 
spontaneously 
combustible; strong 
reducing agent; 
acutely toxic 
Fair 
Propane  
CH3CH2CH3 
74-98-6 
highly flammable; 
compressed gas 
cylinder hazards; 
vaporizing liquid 
may cause frostbite; 
toxic; will displace 
oxygen, which may 
cause asphyxiation 
Fair 
Propionic Acid 
C3H6O2 
79-09-4 
corrosive; 
flammable; toxic 
Indefinite 
Propyl Alcohol (n-Propanol 
or Propanol) 
C3H8O 
71-23-8 
highly flammable; 
toxic 
Indefinite 
Pyridine (Azine or 
Azabenzene) 
C5H5N 
110-86-1 
highly flammable; 
toxic 
Good 
Pyrosulfuryl Chloride  
(Sulfur Pentoxydichloride) 
Cl2O5S2 
7791-27-7 
water- and air-
reactive; corrosive; 
toxic 
Fair 
Silver Nitrate 
AgNO3 
7761-88-8 
strong oxidizer; 
corrosive; toxic 
Indefinite 
Silver Sulfate 
Ag2SO4 
10294-26-5 
toxic 
Indefinite 
Sodium Bisulfite 
NaHSO3 
7631-90-5 
strong reducing 
agent; corrosive; 
toxic 
Fair to poor 
Sodium Chromate 
Na2CrO4 
7775-11-3 
chromium (VI) 
compounds are 
carcinogenic to 
humans; strong 
oxidizer; poison 
Fair 
Sodium Cobaltinitrite 
(Sodium 
Hexanitrocobaltate) 
Na3Co(NO2)6 
13600-98-1 
cobalt and cobalt 
compounds are 
possibly 
carcinogenic to 
humans; toxic 
Indefinite 
Sodium Dichromate 
Dihydrate 
Na2Cr2O7·2H2O 
7789-12-0 
chromium (VI) 
compounds are 
carcinogenic to 
humans; strong 
oxidizer; poison 
Poor

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
55 
Appendix B – Restricted Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Shelf Life1 
Sodium Fluoride 
NaF 
7681-49-4 
corrosive; poison 
Indefinite 
Sodium Hydroxide (Lye) 
NaOH 
1310-73-2 
water-reactive; 
corrosive; toxic 
Good 
Sodium Hypochlorite 
NaClO 
7681-52-9 
strong oxidizer; 
corrosive; toxic 
Poor 
Sodium Iodate 
NaIO3 
7681-55-2 
strong oxidizer; 
toxic 
Fair to poor 
Sodium Iodide 
NaI 
7681-82-5 
toxic 
Fair to poor 
Sodium Metabisulfite 
Na2S2O5 
7681-57-4 
strong reducing 
agent; corrosive; 
toxic 
Poor 
Sodium Nitrate 
NaNO3 
7631-99-4 
strong oxidizer; 
toxic 
Indefinite 
Sodium Nitrite 
NaNO2 
7632-00-0 
strong oxidizer; 
poison 
Indefinite 
Sodium PhosphateTribasic 
Dodecahydrate 
Na3PO4·12H2O 
10101-89-0 
corrosive; toxic 
Fair 
Sodium Potassium Alloy 
K2Na 
11135-81-2 
water-reactive; in 
contact with water 
releases flammable 
gases which may 
ignite 
spontaneously; 
corrosive 
Fair 
Sodium Sulfide 
Nonahydrate 
Na2S·9H2O 
1313-84-4 
explosive; 
flammable solid; 
strong reducing 
agent; corrosive; 
toxic 
Fair 
Sodium Thiocyanate 
NaSCN 
540-72-7 
strong reducing 
agent; toxic 
Poor 
Sodium Thiosulfate 
Pentahydrate 
Na2S2O3·5H2O 
10102-17-7 
toxic 
Poor 
Stannic Chloride 
SnCl4 
7646-78-8 
air- and water-
reactive; corrosive; 
toxic 
Poor 
Strontium Nitrate 
Sr(NO3)2 
10042-76-9 
strong oxidizer 
Indefinite 
Sulfur Chloride (Sulfur 
Dichloride) 
Cl2S2 
10025-67-9 
water-reactive; 
corrosive; toxic 
Fair

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
56 
Appendix B – Restricted Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Shelf Life1 
Sulfur Pentafluoride 
S2F10 
5714-22-7 
water-reactive; 
poison 
Fair 
Sulfuric Acid (<10%) 
H2SO4 
7664-93-9 
strong oxidizer; 
severely corrosive; 
water-reactive; toxic 
Good 
Sulfuric Acid (>10%)  
(2.5 L limit) 
H2SO4 
7664-93-9 
strong oxidizer; 
severely corrosive; 
water-reactive; toxic 
Good 
tert-Butyl Alcohol (t-Butanol 
or 1,1-Dimethyl Ethanol) 
(CH3)3COH 
75-65-0 
highly flammable; 
irritating vapor and 
liquid 
Fair 
Terpineol (Terpene 
Alcohol) 
C10H17OH 
98-55-5 
flammable; toxic 
Indefinite 
Thiophosphoryl Chloride 
Cl3SP 
3982-91-0 
air- and water- 
reactive; corrosive; 
toxic 
Fair 
Tin 
Sn 
7440-31-5 
metal dust may 
present a fire 
hazard and a health 
hazard 
Indefinite 
Toluene (Methyl Benzene) 
C7H8 
108-88-3 
highly flammable; 
toxic 
Good 
Toluene Diisocyanate (TDI) 
C9H6N2O2 
584-84-9 
water-reactive; 
acutely toxic 
Poor 
Trichloroethane-1,1,1 
(Methyl Chloroform) 
C2H3Cl3 
71-55-6 
poison; flammable 
Fair 
Trichloroethylene 
(Acetylene Trichloride) 
C2HCl3 
79-01-6 
carcinogenic to 
humans; poison; 
flammable 
Indefinite 
Triethanolamine 
C6H15NO3 
102-71-6 
toxic 
Fair 
2,2,4-Trimethylpentane 
C8H18 
540-84-1 
highly flammable; 
toxic 
Limited; refer 
to expiration 
date on label 
Tri-n-Butylaluminum 
C12H27Al 
1116-70-7 
air- and water- 
reactive; strong 
reducing agent; 
pyrophoric; toxic 
Fair 
Trioctyl Aluminum 
(CH3(CH2)7)3Al 
1070-00-4 
water-reactive; 
acutely toxic; 
flammable 
Poor

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
57 
Appendix B – Restricted Chemicals 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Shelf Life1 
Triphenyltetrazolium 
Chloride (Red Tetrazolium 
or Vitastain) 
C19H15N4Cl 
298-96-4 
toxic 
Good 
Trisodium Phosphate 
(Sodium Phosphate) 
Na3PO4 
7601-54-9 
toxic 
Indefinite 
Tungsten 
W 
7440-33-7 
Metal dust may 
present a fire 
hazard and a health 
hazard. 
Indefinite 
Turpentine 
C10H16 
8006-64-2 
Highly flammable; 
toxic 
Indefinite 
Vanadium Trichloride 
VCl3 
7718-98-1 
Toxic; air- and 
water-reactive; 
corrosive 
Fair 
Xylene 
C8H10 
1330-20-7 
Highly flammable; 
toxic by inhalation 
or absorption 
through skin. 
Good 
Zinc (Powder) 
Zn 
7440-66-6 
Strong reducing 
agent; water-
reactive; 
pyrophoric; metal 
dust may present a 
fire hazard and a 
health hazard 
Indefinite 
Zinc Acetylide 
 
 
shock sensitive; 
water-reactive 
Fair 
Zinc Nitrate Hexahydrate 
(500 g limit) 
Zn(NO3)2·6H2O 
10196-18-6 
Strong oxidizer 
Indefinite 
Zinc Phosphide 
Zn3P2 
1314-84-7 
Strong reducing 
agent; water 
reactive; toxic 
Fair

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
58 
Appendix B2 – Restricted Chemicals (Demonstration Use Only) 
Appendix B2 – Restricted Chemicals (Demonstration Use Only) 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Shelf Life1 
Aluminum Chloride, 
Anhydrous  (25 g limit) 
AlCl3 
7446-70-0 
air-and water-reactive; 
fumes in moist air form 
toxic gas 
Good 
Ammonium Dichromate 
(100 g limit) 
(NH4)2Cr2O7 
7789-09-5 
oxidizer; chromium (VI) 
compounds 
arecarcinogenic to 
humans 
Fair 
Ammonium Persulfate  
(100 g limit) 
(NH4)2S2O8 
7727-54-0 
strong oxidizer; explosion 
hazard 
Indefinite 
Antimony Metal  
(50 g limit) 
Sb 
7440-36-0 
poison; combustible 
powder; strong reducing 
agent 
Indefinite 
Bromine  
(3 - 1 g ampules limit) 
Br2 
7726-95-6 
strong oxidizer; reacts 
violently with organics; 
acutely toxic by inhalation 
and ingestion 
Indefinite 
Calcium Carbide  
(100 g limit) 
CaC2 
75-20-7 
water-reactive; reacts 
violently with water to 
generate acetylene gas; 
serious fire risk 
Good 
Chromium Oxide  
(Chromic Oxide)  
(20 g limit) 
Cr2O3 
1308-38-9 
strong oxidizer; poison; 
corrosive 
Indefinite 
Collodion  
(a solution of pyroxylin in 
ether and alcohol) 
(100 mL limit) 
C25H33O13(N
O3)7 
9004-70-0 
highly flammable  
Fair 
Cyclohexanone  
(100 mL limit) 
C6H10O 
108-94-1 
highly flammable; vapors 
may travel a considerable 
distance and ignite; may 
form explosive peroxides 
Indefinite 
Cyclohexene  
(100 mL limit) 
C6H10 
110-83-8 
highly flammable; vapors 
may travel a considerable 
distance and ignite; may 
form explosive peroxides 
Poor 
Cyclopentanone  
(100 mL limit) 
C5H8O 
120-92-3 
highly flammable; vapors 
may travel a considerable 
distance and ignite; may 
form explosive peroxides 
Good

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
59 
Appendix B2 – Restricted Chemicals (Demonstration Use Only) 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Shelf Life1 
Diglyme  
(Diethylene Glycol 
Dimethyl Ether)  
(500 mL limit) 
(CH3O)CH2 
111-96-6 
combustible; oxidizes 
readily in air to form 
explosive peroxides  
Limited; 
refer to 
expiration 
date on 
label 
Dinitrophenylhydrazine 
(100 g limit) 
C6H6N4O4 
119-26-6 
flammable solid; explosive 
when dry 
Good 
Hydrides, Borohydrides 
(e.g., aluminum 
borohydride, aluminum 
hydride, magnesium 
lauminum hydride, 
phosphorous hydride, 
sodium borohydride)(100 g 
limit) 
Unavailable 
 
strong reducing agents; 
air-and water-reactive 
sodium 
borohydride: 
indefinite, 
phosporous 
hydride, 
magnesium 
lauminum 
hydride, 
aluminum 
hydride, 
aluminum 
borohydride: 
limited; refer 
to expiration 
date on 
label 
Hydrogen  
(limited to lecture bottle of 
4 cu. ft. or less) 
H2 
13333-74-0 
flammable gas; burns with 
a pale blue, almost 
invisible flame; may 
displace oxygen, which 
could cause asphyxiation;  
compressed gas cylinder 
hazards  
Indefinite 
Lithium  
(20 g limit) 
Li 
7439-93-2 
water-reactive; highly 
flammable solid; readily 
ignited by and reacts with 
man y extinguishing 
agents  
Indefinite 
Magnesium (turnings)  
(100 g limit) 
Mg 
7439-95-4 
water-reactive; flammable 
solid; strong reducing 
agent 
Indefinite 
Methyl Isobutyl Ketone (4-
Methyl-2-Pentanone or 
MIBK)  
(250 mL limit) 
CH3COCH2C
H(CH) 
108-10-1 
highly flammable; vapors 
may travel a considerable 
distance and ignite; may 
form explosive peroxides; 
possibly carcinogenic to 
humans 
Fair to poor 
Pentane (100 mL limit) 
C5H12 
109-66-0 
highly flammable 
Indefinite

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
60 
Appendix B2 – Restricted Chemicals (Demonstration Use Only) 
Name 
Formula 
CAS # 
Hazard* 
Shelf Life1 
Phosphorus, Red 
(Amorphous)  
(50 g limit) 
P 
7723-14-0 
water-reactive; flammable 
solid; can change to white 
phosphorus if heated; 
strong reducing agent; 
acutely toxic 
Indefinite 
Potassium  
(1-container with 5 
demonstration-size pieces) 
K 
7440-09-7 
violently water-reactive; 
may form explosive 
peroxides; combustible; 
flammable solid; ignites 
when exposed to water or 
moisture; may ignite 
spontaneously in air;  
Poor 
Potassium Chlorate  
(100 g limit) 
KClO3 
3811-04-9 
explosive; strong oxidizer 
Indefinite 
Silver Oxide  
(100 g limit) 
Ag2O 
20667-12-3 
strong oxidizer; contact 
with other material may 
cause fire 
Indefinite 
Sodium  
(100 g limit) 
Na 
7440-23-5 
violently water-reactive; 
strong reducing agent; 
flammable solid; may 
ignite spontaneously in air 
Good 
Wright's Stain  
(Hg Containing)  
(100 mL limit) 
UNDEFINED 
68988-92-1 
contains mercury; poison; 
acutely toxic 
Indefinite 
* The hazard information provided for the listed chemicals is not intended to address all safety concerns.  
Before attempting to work with any chemical, review and comply with information provided on the SDS. 
1 Chemicals with an indefinite shelf life may be stored in the school for up to five years. Chemicals with a 
shelf life less than indefinite (limited, poor, fair, and good) may be stored in the school for up to one year 
unless the manufacturer indicates a lesser period of time in which the chemical shall be used.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
6 CCR 1010-6 
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability 
 
61 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 04/14/2015. 
Rules 6.7.4, 6.7.6, 6.12.3, Appendices B, B2 eff. 03/17/2018.
