---
id: "6_CCR_1008-2"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "6 CCR 1008-2"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=5429&fileName=6%20CCR%201008-2&type=pdf"
---

#### 6_CCR_1008-2. 6 CCR 1008-2

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES 
Alcohol and Drug Abuse Division 
LICENSING OF ADDICTION PROGRAMS USING CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES - Repealed eff. 
11/01/2013 
6 CCR 1008-2 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
STATEMENT OF BASIS AND PURPOSE, REGULATORY ANALYSIS AND SPECIFIC STATUTORY 
AUTHORITY 
Rules concerning the Licensing and Registration of Researchers, Analytical Laboratories, and Addiction 
Programs Using Controlled Substances (6 CCR 1008-2) were adopted on 7/28/71, effective 10/1/71 by 
the Department of Health. Revisions to pp. 1-10 were adopted 3/26/83, effective 4/30/83. Revisions to pp. 
1-6 were adopted 12/16/92, effective 1/30/93. Contact the Colorado Department of Public Health and 
Environment for these materials. 
Re-write of Section 6 CCR 1008-2 (22.000 through 22.800) was adopted as emergency at the 8/3/2007 
State Board of Human Services meeting, with an effective date of 9/1/2007 (Rule-Making# 07-3-22-1). 
Statement of Basis and Purpose and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by 
reference into the rule. These materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours 
at the Colorado Department of Human Services, State Board Administration. 
Rules regarding licensing of addiction programs using controlled substances, as originally found in 6 CCR 
1008-2, are repealed in their entirety and rewritten as a consolidation of Behavioral Health rules in 2 CCR 
502-1 as adopted following publication at the 9/6/2013 State Board of Human Services meeting, with an 
effective date of 11/1/2013 (Rule-making# 13-3-4-1). Statement of Basis and Purpose, fiscal impact, and 
specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the rule. These 
materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours at the Colorado Department 
of Human Services, Office of Enterprise Partnerships, Division of Boards and Commissions, State Board 
Administration. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule emer. rule eff. 09/01/2007. Entire rule eff. 10/30/2007. 
Entire rule repealed eff. 11/01/2013. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado
