---
id: "7_CCR_1103-20"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "7 CCR 1103-20"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12401&fileName=7%20CCR%201103-20&type=pdf"
---

#### 7_CCR_1103-20. 7 CCR 1103-20

1 
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR AND EMPLOYMENT 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
COLORADO YOUTH EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS RULES 
7 CCR 1103-20 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
Adopted December 8, 2025; effective February 1, 2026. 
Rule 1. 
Statement of Purpose and Authority 
1.1 
The general purpose of these Colorado Youth Employment Standards Rules 
(YES Rules) is to exercise the authority of the Director, through the Division of 
Labor Standards and Statistics, to administer and enforce the provisions of the 
Colorado Youth Employment Opportunity Act (CYEOA), including C.R.S. §§ 8-
12-105, 8-12-110, 8-12-113(4), 8 12 116, 8-12-117 and these rules shall be 
interpreted in accordance with the CYEOA. These rules are adopted pursuant to 
the Division’s authority in C.R.S. §§ 8-1-103(3), 8 1 107(2)(p), 8-1-111, 8-6-
108.5, 8-12-110(3), 8-12-113(4), and -115. These rules are intended to be 
consistent with the rulemaking requirements of the State Administrative 
Procedure Act, C.R.S. § 24-4-103. Unless otherwise noted, in these Rules: all 
statutes cited apply the most recent 2025 versions of the Colorado Revised 
Statutes; all rules cited apply the most recent versions adopted as of the 
adoption of these Rules. 
1.2 
The Director of the Division of Labor Standards and Statistics in the Department 
of Labor and Employment has the authority to enforce, interpret, apply, and 
administer the statutes cited in Rule 1.1 above and these rules. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-20 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
2 
1.3 
Incorporation by Reference. The YES Rules incorporate by reference only those 
specific federal and Colorado rules identified as incorporated by reference in 
these Rules. As referenced below, the YES Rules incorporate by reference the 
following federal rules: the following regulations in Subparts E and E-1 of Part 
570 within Title 29 of the Code of Federal Regulations, 29 C.F.R. §§ 570.33(b)–
(i),(l),(n)(1),(n)(3); 570.50–570.51; 570.53–570.72, as adopted by the United 
States Department of Labor’s Wage and Hour Division, located at 200 
Constitution Ave NW, Washington, DC 20210 and available to the public in 
electronic form at https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-29/part-570; and all 
regulations in Part 1910 within Title 29 of the Code of Federal Regulations 
(available to the public in electronic form at https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-
29/part-1910), the following regulations in Part 1926 within Title 29 of the Code of 
Federal Regulations, Subparts C through O, W, and X (available to the public in 
electronic form at https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-29/part-1926), and the 
following regulations in Part 1928 within Title 29 of the Code of Federal 
Regulations, Subparts C through D (available to the public in electronic form at 
https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-29/part-1928) as adopted by the United States 
Department of Labor, Occupational Safety and Health Administration, located at 
200 Constitution Ave NW, Washington, DC 20210. The YES Rules also 
incorporate by reference specific rules, as identified below, from the Colorado 
Wage Protection Rules, 7 CCR 1103-7, and the Agricultural Labor Conditions 
Rules, 7 CCR 1103-15, as adopted by the Colorado Department of Labor and 
Employment, Division of Labor Standards & Statistics. These incorporated 
Division rules can be accessed electronically from the website of the Colorado 
Secretary of State and are available to the public at www.coloradolaborlaw.gov. 
All incorporated rules are available for public inspection at the Colorado 
Department of Labor and Employment, Division of Labor Standards & Statistics, 
which is located at 707 17th Street, Denver, CO 80202. Pursuant to C.R.S. § 24 
4 103(12.5)(b), the agency shall provide certified copies of the rules incorporated 
by reference at cost upon request. All such incorporated rules refer to the date 
and edition of those rules in effect as of the effective date of these YES Rules, 
February 1, 2026, and exclude later amendments to or editions of these rules 
incorporated by reference. 
1.4 
Where these rules have provisions different from or contrary to any referenced 
material, the provisions of these rules govern so long as they are consistent with 
Colorado statutory and constitutional provisions. Where these rules reference 
another rule, the reference shall be deemed to include all subparts of the 
referenced rule. 
1.5 
Separability. These Rules are intended to remain in effect to the maximum extent 
possible. If any part (including any section, sentence, clause, phrase, word, or 
number) is held invalid, (A) the remainder of the Rule remains valid, and (B) if 
the provision is held not wholly invalid, but merely in need of narrowing, the 
provision should be retained in narrowed form.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-20 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
3 
1.6 
Deadlines in these Rules may be extended for good cause. In considering 
whether good cause exists, the Division will determine whether the reason is 
substantial and reasonable, and must take into account all available information 
and circumstances pertaining to the specific Complaint. 
Rule 2. 
Definitions 
2.1 
“Complaint” or “Claim” interchangeably mean a Complaint or Claim alleging a 
violation of the CYEOA. “Complainant” means a person with a Complaint or 
Claim. “Complainant” includes any authorized representative of the minor. 
2.2 
“Division” means the Division of Labor Standards and Statistics within the 
Department of Labor and Employment. 
2.3 
“Employer” means any individual or entity engaged in the “employment” of a 
minor that pays compensation or other valuable consideration in exchange for 
the minor’s work. “Employer” under the CYEOA and these rules includes both 
contractors and “employers,” as defined by C.R.S. § 8-4-101(6). This definition 
does not apply to Rule 11. 
2.4 
“Employment” has the same definition as C.R.S. § 8-12-103(4). This definition 
does not apply to Rule 11. 
2.5 
“Includes” means including but not limited to. 
2.6 
“Minor” has the same definition as C.R.S. § 8-12-103(5). This definition does not 
apply to Rule 11. 
2.7 
Temperatures in or applicable to these rules are all on the Fahrenheit 
temperature scale. 
Rule 3. 
Complaints 
3.1 
A minor or a representative of a minor may file a complaint with the Division. 
Complaints shall be filed using a Division-approved form. 
3.2 
A complaint or appeal is considered “filed” with the Division when it is received by 
the Division via mail, fax, email, online submission, or personal delivery. Any 
Complaint, appeal, or termination received after 11:59 p.m. Mountain Time is 
considered filed the next business day. If a complaint is filed without using a 
Division-approved form, the date the complaint is received will be the date of the 
complaint, then the complainant will have 14 days to submit a Division-approved 
form to avoid dismissal of the complaint without prejudice. The 14 days runs from 
the date the Division requests completion of the Division-approved form, unless 
the deadline is extended by the Division.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-20 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
4 
3.3 
The complaint shall include the complainant’s signature, contact information, and 
basis for the complaint. Failure to include this information on the complaint form 
may result in administrative dismissal of the complaint. Any such submission is 
considered “signed,” or to have a “signature,” if it has either an ink signature, a 
scanned signature, an electronically drawn or generated signature, or a typed 
name entered by the party or their authorized representative in the signature 
area; by signing in any such fashion, the individual is deemed to have agreed 
and assented that the document is signed by them. 
3.4 
The complaint shall include a short and plain statement of its grounds. Any 
evidence probative of a relevant issue may be submitted or considered. The 
Division will cease investigating a complaint that, upon review, fails to raise a 
reasonable inference of a violation of the CYEOA. 
3.5 
Any party to the complaint may designate an authorized representative using the 
procedures of Wage Protection Rule 4.3, 7 CCR 1103-7. 
3.6 
If the complaint is filed by someone other than a minor (a third-party filer), the 
Division will contact the third-party filer. The third-party filer will have 14 days to 
be designated as an authorized representative, using the procedures of Wage 
Protection Rule 4.3, 7 CCR 1103-7. If the third-party filer is not an authorized 
representative or does not meet the requirements, the complaint will be 
dismissed or, at the sole and total discretion of the Division, investigated. 
3.6.1 If the Division, in its discretion, proceeds with the investigation, the 
complaint will be converted to a direct investigation subject to the Direct 
Investigation Rules, 7 CCR 1103-8, and the third-party filer will be 
removed as a party to the investigation. The Division shall issue a Notice 
of Conversion to the third-party filer, notifying them that they are no longer 
a party. The Notice of Conversion shall inform the third-party filer that 
they: 
(A) 
have been removed as a party; 
(B) 
will have no involvement with the further investigation of the claim, 
except at the request of the Division; 
(C) 
will receive no further updates or have rights to updates; 
(D) 
will have no rights to withdraw the claim; and, 
(E) 
have no right to appeal the conversion or the outcome of the 
investigation. 
3.7 
A complainant may withdraw a complaint at any time before the issuance of a 
determination by notifying the Division in writing.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-20 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
5 
3.8 
A complainant shall respond in a timely manner to informational or investigatory 
requests by the Division. Failure to comply with this Rule may result in dismissal 
of the complaint. If a complaint is dismissed before a Notice of Complaint is sent 
to the employer due to failure to respond to a Division request for information, the 
complaint may be reopened if the complainant provides the requested 
information or documentation to the Division within 35 days of the request. A 
complainant may be required to file a new complaint if the response is received 
more than 35 days after the request. 
Rule 4. 
Investigations 
4.1 
The Division will investigate complaints that provide sufficient evidence from 
which a violation of the CYEOA may be reasonably inferred (subject to Rule 3.6 
as to third-party complaints). 
4.2 
Rule 4.2 incorporates by reference Wage Protection Rules 4.1, 4.2.1, and 4.3 
through 4.9, 7 CCR 1103-7, as adopted by the Division, except that as 
incorporated: 
(A) 
all references to a “wage claim” or “wage complaint” shall include a claim 
or complaint alleging a violation of the CYEOA; 
(B) 
all references to “wage,” “wage and hour,” or “labor” law, rights, 
responsibilities, investigations or proceedings shall include labor rights or 
responsibilities within these Rules; 
(C) 
all references to “HFWA” shall include other labor rights or responsibilities 
within these Rules; and 
(D) 
in Rule 4.4.3, “C.R.S. § 8-4-113(1)(b)” is replaced with “C.R.S. §§ 8-4-
113(1)(b); 8-1-114; 8-1-116; 8-1-117; and 8-1-140(2).” 
4.3 
The Division may exercise its discretion to have an investigation sequenced or 
divided into two or more stages on discrete questions of liability or relief (e.g., 
bifurcation), yielding two or more determinations or phases of the investigation. 
Rule 5. 
Determinations and Remedies 
5.1 
After investigating the complaint and assessing the employer’s compliance, the 
Division will issue a written determination. 
5.1.1 The determination will be provided to the employer and complainant in 
writing via U.S. postal mail, electronic means, or personal delivery. 
5.1.2 The determination will contain information on the extent of the employer’s 
compliance with the law, and will describe: 
(A) 
what provisions of the law were adhered to or violated; and,

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-20 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
6 
(B) 
if a violation of the CYEOA has occurred, steps the employer must 
take to cure the violation. 
5.1.3 Determinations by the Division may include the following remedies, 
depending on which, if any, the Division’s findings support: 
(A) 
order(s) to cease non-compliance or effectuate compliance, as 
authorized by the CYEOA and statutes on Division investigative 
and enforcement authority in C.R.S. Title 8, Article 1; 
(B) 
fines pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-1-140(2) or the CYEOA, C.R.S. § 8-12-
116(1); 
(C) 
damages payable to the aggrieved minor under C.R.S. § 8-12-
116(3); and, 
(D) 
any other remedies authorized by law. 
5.1.4 The determination will contain information on appeal rights and appeal 
procedures. 
5.1.5 The date of issuance of the Division’s determination is the date the 
Division’s determination is sent. Both the termination and appeal 
deadlines are calculated from the date the Division’s determination is 
originally issued and sent to the parties. 
5.1.6 A certified copy of any citation, notice of assessment, or order imposing 
relief or remedies may be filed with the clerk of any court having 
jurisdiction over the parties at any time after the entry of the order. Such a 
filing can be in a county or district court, and will thereby have the effect of 
a judgment from which execution may issue. 
5.2 
Pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-12-115(4)(b), the Division may issue an additional 
determination that orders penalties for each offense without sending an 
additional Notice of Complaint. Any resulting determination shall follow Rule 5.1, 
and any appeal shall follow Rule 6. 
Rule 6. 
Appeals 
6.1 
Any party to the claim may appeal the Division’s determination(s). 
6.2 
Rule 6.2 incorporates by reference Wage Protection Rule 6, 7 CCR 1103-7, as 
adopted by the Division, which shall govern and apply to Claims filed or 
determinations made under these Rules.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-20 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
7 
Rule 7. 
Recordkeeping Requirements 
7.1 
An employer must retain a true and accurate record for each minor, including the 
date of birth for minors under 18 years of age, as already required separately by 
the Colorado Overtime and Minimum Pay Standards (COMPS) Order Rule 7.1, 7 
CCR 1103-1. 
7.2 
An employer must retain a copy of these records for three years after the minor’s 
eighteenth birthday or three years after the termination of employment, 
whichever is sooner: 
(A) 
Any exemption under C.R.S. § 8-12-104; 
(B) 
Any documents supporting use of the C.R.S. § 8-12-110(1) 
exception, including proof of completion of or enrollment in a 
qualifying program; 
(C) 
Any age certificate and any other documents under C.R.S. § 8-12-
111; 
(D) 
Any proof of a high school diploma, a passing score on the general 
educational development examination, completion of a career and 
technical education program, or any other documents under C.R.S. 
§ 8-12-112; and, 
(E) 
Any school release permit and other documents under C.R.S. § 8-
12-113. 
7.3 
All documents described in Rules 7.1 and 7.2 must be made available to 
the Division upon request. Nothing in this rule shall be construed to limit 
the Division’s authority to obtain documents and information from any 
employer. 
7.4 
Where a claim, complaint, or investigation under the CYEOA has been 
filed or commenced, the employer shall preserve all relevant documents 
throughout the duration of the investigation and until the expiration of the 
statutory period within which a person aggrieved may bring a civil action.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-20 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
8 
Rule 8. 
Hazardous Occupations Prohibited for All Minors Under C.R.S. § 8-
12-110 
8.1 
Operation of any high-pressure steam boiler or high-temperature water boiler. 
8.1.1 An employer shall not permit a minor to perform any job duty that involves 
the operation of any high-pressure steam boiler or high-temperature water 
boiler. 
8.1.2 “High-pressure steam boiler” means any boiler that operates at a pressure 
in excess of 15 pounds per square inch (psi). 
8.1.3 “High-temperature water boiler” means a water boiler that operates at 
greater than 160 psi water pressure or over 250°F. 
8.2 
Risk of falling. 
8.2.1 A minor shall not be permitted to perform any job duty that involves the 
risk of falling from any elevated place located 10 feet or more above the 
ground for non-agricultural employment and 20 feet or more above the 
ground for agricultural employment. 
8.2.2 For heights below the applicable limit, an employer must ensure 
compliance with 29 C.F.R. §§ 1910 Subparts D, F, and I, and 1926 
Subparts E, G, H, L, M, N, R, and X, which are incorporated by reference 
and available to the public for review as stated in Rule 1.3. 
8.3 
Manufacturing, transporting, or storing of explosives. 
8.3.1 An employer engaged in manufacturing, transporting, using, or storing 
explosives may not employ minors. 
8.3.2 An employer shall not permit a minor to access explosives. 
8.3.3 An employer shall not permit a minor to perform any job duties that involve 
the manufacture, transport, use, or storage of explosives. 
8.3.4 “Explosives” means and includes ammunition, black powder, blasting caps 
or agents, detonators, igniters, fireworks, high explosives, primers, 
smokeless powder, and any chemical compound mixture, or device, the 
primary or common purpose of which is to function by explosion. 
Explosives include all goods identified in the “2025 Annual List of 
Explosive Materials,” published by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, 
Firearms, and Explosives, 90 Federal Register 25077, 25077 — 79, 
available for public review at: 
https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2025/06/13/2025-
10659/commerce-in-explosives-2025-annual-list-of-explosive-materials.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-20 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
9 
8.4 
Mining, logging, oil drilling, or quarrying. 
8.4.1 An employer engaged in mining, logging, oil drilling, or quarrying may not 
employ minors. 
8.4.2 An employer shall not permit a minor to enter or work in close proximity to 
a mine or quarry, sawmill, logging operation, or oil rig. 
8.4.3 An employer shall not permit a minor to perform any job duties related to 
mining or quarrying, logging, or oil drilling. 
8.4.4 Mining or quarrying includes all work performed underground in mines and 
quarries; on the surface at underground mines and underground quarries; 
in or about open-cut mines, open quarries, clay pits, and sand and gravel 
operations; at or about placer mining operations; at or about dredging 
operations for clay, sand or gravel; at or about bore-hole mining 
operations; in or about all metal mills, washer plants, or grinding mills 
reducing the bulk of the extracted minerals; and at or about any other 
crushing, grinding, screening, sizing, washing or cleaning operations 
performed upon the extracted minerals except where such operations are 
performed as a part of a manufacturing process permitted by these rules. 
8.4.5 Logging includes all work performed in forest fire fighting and forest fire 
prevention, in timber tracts, in forestry services, timber operations, 
transportation or processing of wood products, and the operation of any 
sawmill, lathe mill, shingle mill, or cooperage stock mill. 
8.4.6 Oil drilling includes the physical drilling of a well, the operation of an oil 
drill, and the testing, completing, or equipping of an oil well for production. 
8.5 
Any occupation involving exposure to radioactive substances or ionizing 
radiation. 
8.5.1 An employer shall not permit a minor to perform any work in any area 
subject to exposure to radioactive substances or ionizing radiation. An 
area is not subject to exposure if an employer demonstrates that all areas 
where a minor is able to access are protected from exposure to 
radioactive substances or ionizing radiation. 
8.5.2 An employer shall not permit a minor to be exposed to radioactive 
substances or ionizing radiation. 
8.5.3 Ionizing radiation includes alpha and beta particles, electrons, protons, 
neutrons, gamma and x-rays, and all other radiations that produce 
ionizations directly or indirectly, excluding electromagnetic radiations other 
than gamma and x-rays. 
8.5.4 Radioactive substances include:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-20 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
10 
(A) 
Radium; 
(B) 
Any mixture of phosphorescent material and radium, mesothorium, 
or other radioactive element compounds; 
(C) 
Incandescent mantles made from fabric and solutions containing 
thorium salts; and, 
(D) 
any material which emits, by spontaneous nuclear disintegration, 
corpuscular or electromagnetic emanations. 
8.6 
Operation of power-driven machinery. 
8.6.1 Definitions. 
(A) 
“Power-driven machinery” means all machines driven by power, 
without regard for the power source. Sources of power include 
electrical, gas, hydraulic, or air. 
(B) 
“Duties related to operation of power-driven machinery” means 
operating or assisting in the operation of power machinery, and any 
work that either (i) creates a foreseeable risk that a minor will 
operate the machinery due to proximity or nature of the work; or (ii) 
subjects a minor to the same safety risks as operation, e.g., within 
the area where one could be struck or injured by the prohibited 
machine. This definition applies even when machines are not 
operated. 
8.6.2 An employer shall not permit a minor to perform any duties related to 
operating power-driven woodworking machinery. 
(A) 
Power-driven woodworking machines include all fixed or portable 
machines or tools driven by power and used or designed for 
cutting, shaping, forming, surfacing, nailing, stapling, wire stitching, 
fastening or otherwise assembling, pressing or printing wood, 
veneer, trees, logs, or lumber. 
(B) 
Examples of machinery prohibited by this rule include power-driven 
circular saws, band saws, guillotine shears, chain saws, 
reciprocating saws, wood chippers, planers, drill presses, sanders, 
nailers, abrasive cutting discs, shapers, molders, heel turners, 
lathes, tenoners, mortisers, stickers, drills, boring machines, hole 
cutters, chuckers, wire stitchers, berry-basket machines, and 
bushel-tub machines. 
8.6.3 An employer may not permit a minor to perform any duties related to 
operating power-driven metal forming, punching, or shearing machines.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-20 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
11 
(A) 
Power-driven metal forming, punching, or shearing machines 
include power-driven metalworking machines that change the 
shape of or cut metal by means of tools, such as dies, rolls, knives 
mounted on rams, plungers, and other moving parts. 
(B) 
Examples of machinery prohibited by this rule include rolling 
machines, pressing or punching machines, bending machines, 
hammering machines, and shearing machines. 
8.6.4 An employer may not permit a minor to perform any duties related to 
operating power-driven bakery machines. 
(A) 
Bakery machines include all power-driven machines used in baking 
and the preparation of baked goods, but does not include (i) 
lightweight, small capacity, portable counter-top power-driven food 
mixers and (ii) pizza-dough rollers, as defined by 29 C.F.R. § 
570.62, which is incorporated by reference and available to the 
public for review as stated in Rule 1.3. 
(B) 
Examples of machinery prohibited by this rule include walk-in 
ovens, horizontal or vertical dough mixers, batter mixers, bread 
dividing, rounding, or molding machines, dough brakes, dough 
sheeters; combination bread slicing and wrapping machines, or 
cake cutting band saws. 
8.6.5 An employer may not permit a minor to perform any duties related to 
operating power-driven paper products machines. 
(A) 
Paper products machines include all power-driven machines used 
in the remanufacture or conversion of paper or pulp into finished 
product (including recycling) or the preparation of material for 
disposal. 
(B) 
Examples of machinery prohibited by this rule include arm-type wire 
stitchers or staplers, circular or band saws, corner cutter or mitering 
machines, corrugating and single-or-double facing machines, 
envelope die-cutting presses, guillotine paper cutters or shears, 
horizontal bar scorers, laminating or combining machines, sheeting 
machines, scrap paper balers, paper box compactors, or vertical 
slotters. 
8.6.6 An employer may not permit a minor to perform any duties related to 
operating power-driven shears. 
(A) 
Shears include power-driven machinery for cutting material, 
including metal, paper, coal, or other things, by shearing, which 
utilize a fixed blade(s) and non-rotary moving blade(s).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-20 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
12 
(B) 
Examples of machinery prohibited by this rule include guillotine 
shears, alligator shears, circular shears, rotary shears, and 
squaring shears. 
8.6.7 An employer may not permit a minor to perform any duties related to 
operating power-driven automatic pin-setting machines. 
(A) 
An employer may not permit a minor to go into the area where an 
automatic pin-setting machine operates. 
(B) 
“Operating” an automatic pin-setting machine does not include 
operating it remotely through software or a control panel, nor does 
it include bowling down the aisle. 
8.6.8 An employer may not permit a minor to perform any duties related to 
operating power-driven food processing equipment. 
(A) 
Power-driven food processing equipment includes equipment used 
in processing food, food slicers, food grinders, food choppers, food 
processors, food cutters, and food mixers 
(B) 
Examples of machinery prohibited by this rule include meat patty 
forming machines, meat and bone cutting saws, poultry scissors or 
shears; meat slicers, knives, headsplitters, and guillotine cutters; 
snoutpullers and jawpullers; skinning machines; horizontal rotary 
washing machines; casing-cleaning machines such as crushing, 
stripping, and finishing machines; grinding, mixing, chopping, and 
hashing machines; and presses. 
8.6.9 An employer may not permit a minor to perform any duties related to 
operating power-driven balers and compactors. 
(A) 
Power-driven balers and compactors include any powered machine 
designed or used to compress, compact, or bind materials into 
bales for storage, handling or transportation, including scrap paper 
balers or any baler that is designed or used to process materials 
other than paper. 
(B) 
Examples of machinery prohibited by this rule include hay balers, 
metal balers, plastic balers, textile balers, mixed waste balers, and 
industrial balers. 
8.6.10 An employer may not permit a minor to perform any duties related to 
operating power-driven construction and industrial machines. 
(A) 
Power-driven construction and industrial machines include all 
machines used in the alteration, repair, painting, demolition, and 
maintenance of buildings, bridges, and other structures.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-20 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
13 
(B) 
Examples of machinery prohibited by this rule include bulldozers, 
excavators, loaders, compactors, pavers, cranes, derricks, hoists, 
high-lift trucks, graders, earth compactors, backhoes, and tractors. 
8.6.11 An employer may not permit a minor to perform any duties related to 
operating power-driven grinding, abrasive, polishing, or buffing machines 
that use emery, tripoli, rouge, corundum, stone, silicon carbide, or any 
other abrasive. 
8.6.12 An employer may not permit a minor to perform any duties related to 
operating power-driven welding machines, including stick, MIG, TIG, and 
Arc machines, as well as gas-only welding machines and blowtorches. 
8.6.13 An employer may not permit a minor to perform any duties related to 
operating power-driven rolling and shaping machines, regardless of the 
substance rolled or shaped, including corrugating, crimping or embossing 
machines, milling machines, turning machines, and boring machines. 
8.6.14 An employer may not permit a minor to perform any duties related to 
operating power-driven dry cleaning and commercial laundry machinery. 
8.6.15 An employer may not permit a minor to perform any duties related to 
operating power-driven hoisting machines, including elevators, cranes, 
derricks, hoists, or high-lift trucks, except that a minor may be permitted to 
operate or ride inside an unattended automatic operation passenger 
elevator. 
8.6.16 An employer may not permit a minor to perform any duties related to 
operating power-driven conveyors. 
8.6.17 An employer may not permit a minor to perform any duties related to 
operating any power-driven machinery declared to be hazardous by the 
United States Department of Labor in 29 C.F.R. §§ 570.53 through 
570.68, which are incorporated by reference and available to the public for 
review as stated in Rule 1.3. 
8.7 
Slaughter of livestock and rendering and packaging of meat. 
8.7.1 An employer engaged in the slaughter of livestock or poultry, or rendering 
and packaging of meat may not employ a minor. 
8.7.2 An employer may not permit a minor to enter any areas where the 
slaughter of livestock or poultry is performed, including the killing rooms, 
curing rooms, or hide rooms. 
8.7.3 An employer may not permit a minor to perform duties related to:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-20 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
14 
(A) 
Slaughtering of livestock or poultry, including immobilizing, 
shackling, or killing of livestock or poultry; grading; trimming, 
salting, or curing of hides, and preserving and flavoring of meat by 
curing materials; 
(B) 
Packaging and rendering of meat, including: (i) cutting or slicing, 
whether using power-driven machines related to meat, (ii) recovery 
of lard or oils and the operation of lard-roll machines, and (iii) 
tankage or rendering of dead animals, animal offal, animal fats, 
scrap meats, blood, and bones into stock feeds, tallow, inedible 
greases, fertilizer ingredients, and similar products; 
(C) 
Boning operations; 
(D) 
Handling of any carcass or partial carcass; and, 
(E) 
Cleaning or maintenance of any areas where duties prohibited by 
this rule are performed. 
8.8 
Occupations directly involved in the manufacture of brick or other clay 
construction products or of silica refractory products. 
8.8.1 An employer engaged in manufacturing clay construction products or silica 
refractory products shall not employ minors. 
8.8.2 An employer shall not permit a minor to work in or about areas where clay 
construction products or silica refractory products are manufactured or 
packaged. 
8.8.3 Clay construction products include brick, hollow structural tile, sewer pipe 
and kindred products, refractories, and other clay products such as 
architectural terra cotta, glazed structural tile, roofing tile, stove lining, 
chimney pipes and tops, wall coping, and drain tile. 
8.8.4 Silica refractory products include refractory products produced from raw 
materials containing free silica as their main constituent. 
8.9 
Wrecking or demolition, but not including manual auto wrecking. 
8.9.1 An employer engaged in wrecking or demolition may not employ a minor, 
except an employer engaged in only manual dismantling of automobiles 
without the use of power-driven equipment may employ a minor. 
8.9.2 “Wrecking or demolition” includes all work, including clean-up and salvage 
work, performed at the site of the total or partial razing, demolishing, or 
dismantling of a building, bridge, steeple, tower, chimney, other structure, 
ship, or other vessel.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-20 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
15 
8.10 Roofing. 
8.10.1 An employer engaged in roofing may not employ a minor. 
8.10.2 An employer may not permit a minor to work on or about a roof or area 
where roofing is occurring. 
8.10.3 An employer may not permit a minor to perform any roofing. 
8.10.4 Roofing includes all work performed in connection with the installation of 
roofs, including related metal work such as flashing, and applying 
weatherproofing materials and substances (such as waterproof 
membranes, tar, slag or pitch, asphalt prepared paper, tile, composite 
roofing materials, slate, metal, translucent materials, and shingles of 
asbestos, asphalt, wood or other materials) to roofs of buildings or other 
structures. The term also includes all jobs on the ground related to roofing 
operations such as roofing laborer, roofing helper, materials handler and 
tending a tar heater. 
8.11 Occupations in excavation operations. 
8.11.1 An employer engaged in excavation operations may not employ a minor. 
8.11.2 Excavation operations include all excavating, working in, or backfilling 
trenches; excavating for buildings or other structures or working in 
excavations; and working within tunnels or shafts. Excavation operations 
do not include manual excavation that is less than four feet in depth. 
8.12 Office and retail exception. 
8.12.1 If an employer is prohibited from employing a minor under Rules 8.3.1, 
8.4.1, 8.7.1, 8.8.1, 8.9.1, 8.10.1, or 8.11.1, it may employ a minor sixteen 
years or older to perform office, clerical, or retail work if it demonstrates 
that the minor is not exposed to any hazards. 
8.12.2 The minor may not be employed on the same property or location where 
the hazardous activities are conducted. A minor may not perform any work 
on the same property or location where the following have occurred and 
the hazards have not been mitigated, occur on an ongoing basis, or are 
occurring: 
(A) 
Use or manufacture of explosives or firearms; 
(B) 
Mining, logging, oil drilling, or quarrying; 
(C) 
Slaughter of livestock or poultry;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-20 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
16 
(D) 
Manufacture of clay construction products or silica refractory 
products; 
(E) 
Wrecking or demolition, but not including manual auto wrecking; 
(F) 
Roofing; or 
(G) 
Excavation operations. 
8.12.3 An employer must demonstrate that it prevents minors from physically 
accessing any areas prohibited by the CYEOA, areas where duties 
prohibited by the CYEOA are performed, or areas exposed to the risks of 
prohibited areas or duties. 
8.12.4 This exception must be narrowly construed. There is a presumption that it 
is hazardous for employers engaged in prohibited work to employ minors. 
Nothing in this exception shall be construed to permit a minor to perform 
duties or access an area prohibited by the CYEOA or these Rules. 
8.12.5 This exception does not require an exemption from the Division under 
C.R.S. § 8 12-104, but an employer may request an exemption.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-20 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
17 
Rule 9. 
Prohibited Duties and Occupations 
9.1 
Minors may only be employed as permitted by C.R.S. § 8-12-106 to -109 and 
these Rules. An employer has the burden to demonstrate that employment of a 
minor is permissible under the CYEOA and these Rules. For occupations not 
specifically permitted by the CYEOA or identified in Division rules or guidance as 
“similar to those enumerated in” C.R.S. § 8-12-106 to -109, employers may 
submit an exemption request in accordance with Rule 10 and Division 
procedures established for such requests. Employers may be notified through the 
exemption request process if the work is an allowed “similar” occupation under 
C.R.S. § 8-12-106 to -109. 
9.2 
An employer shall not permit any minor: 
9.2.1 To perform any occupation prohibited as hazardous by the United States 
Department of Labor in 29 C.F.R. §§ 570.50, 570.51, and 570.53 through 
570.72, which are incorporated by reference and available to the public for 
review as stated in Rule 1.3; 
9.2.2 To perform job duties or employment in: 
(A) 
Liquor stores; 
(B) 
Marijuana dispensaries; 
(C) 
Tobacco, nicotine, or other store where the primary activity is the 
sale or use of age-restricted substances; 
(D) 
Adult entertainment venues or strip clubs; 
(E) 
Casinos or other gambling establishments, except as permitted by 
C.R.S. § 44-30-103(14) and 1 CCR 207-1-1; 
(F) 
Locations where the primary activity is illegal, such as brothels or 
illegal gambling operations; or 
(G) 
Any other locations that local, Colorado, or federal law prohibits 
minors from entering without an adult. 
9.2.3 To be exposed to toxic or hazardous substances. Toxic or hazardous 
substances are substances regulated by 29 C.F.R. Part 1910 Subparts H 
and Z, as well as carcinogens, pesticides, and chemicals or fumes that are 
known to be dangerous to humans; 
9.2.4 To lift excessive weight;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-20 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
18 
9.2.5 To work in confined spaces that by design or construction have limited 
openings for entry and egress, have unfavorable natural ventilation, and 
are not intended for human occupancy; 
9.2.6 To use power-driven lawn equipment, unless: 
(A) 
The minor is adequately trained to operate the equipment safely, 
including review of the operator’s manual and all warnings and 
precautions, review and demonstration of all controls of the 
equipment, and review of hazards, including hazards associated 
with mowing up and down steep slopes; 
(B) 
The power-driven equipment and its use comply with 29 C.F.R. §§ 
1910 Subparts D, E, G, I, O through S; 1926 Subparts C through O, 
W, and X; and 1928 Subparts C through D, which are incorporated 
by reference and available to the public for review as stated in Rule 
1.3; 
(C) 
The power-driven equipment is not prohibited by Rule 8.6 (e.g., 
chainsaws); and 
(D) 
The minor does not perform any maintenance or repair of the 
power-driven equipment. 
9.2.7 To violate, be injured by, or be at risk of injury by a violation of any 
occupational safety and health standards set forth in: Part 1910 within title 
29 of the Code of Federal Regulations; 29 C.F.R. § 1926, Subparts C 
through O, W, and X; and 29 C.F.R. § 1928, Subparts C through D — 
which are incorporated by reference and available to the public for review 
as stated in Rule 1.3; or, 
9.2.8 To perform occupations other than those authorized by the CYEOA. 
9.3 
An employer shall not permit a minor under sixteen: 
9.3.1 To be employed in any occupation prohibited by the United States 
Department of Labor as oppressive child labor in 29 C.F.R. § 570.33(b)–
(i), (l), (n)(1), (n)(3), which are incorporated by reference and available to 
the public for review as stated in Rule 1.3. 
9.3.2 In restaurants, retail food service, and related occupations, to: 
(A) 
Cook or bake, including using an open-flame, electric or conductive 
cooktop, grill, pressure cooker, rotisserie cooker, or fryer, except 
that cooking is permitted with deep fryers that are equipped with 
and utilize a device that automatically lowers the baskets into the 
hot oil or grease and automatically raises the baskets from the hot 
oil or grease;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-20 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
19 
(B) 
Handle liquids or oils over 100°F; 
(C) 
Heat foods over 140°F; 
(D) 
Use power-driven kitchen equipment, including pizza dough rollers 
and lightweight, small-capacity, portable counter-top power-driven 
food mixers; or, 
(E) 
Use knives or other sharp blades unless the minor uses cut-proof 
gloves rated at least ANSI A7 or higher. 
9.3.3 To perform any job duties that involve operating, tending to, setting up, 
adjusting, cleaning, oiling, or repairing any power-driven lawn equipment, 
including lawn mowers, riding equipment (including riding mowers, golf 
carts, and all-terrain vehicles), trimmers, cutters, weed-eaters, edgers, 
except lawn equipment permitted 9.4.1. 
9.3.4 To perform job duties other than those authorized by C.R.S. §§ 8-12-106 
to -108. 
9.4 
An employer shall not permit a minor under fourteen: 
9.4.1 To use power-driven lawn equipment, unless the requirements of Rule 
9.2.6 are satisfied and the power-driven lawn equipment is of the type 
approved by the Division. The Division approves: 
(A) 
Hand-held leaf blowers, if electric-powered, and the minor wears 
face and ear protection; 
(B) 
Weed trimmers, if electric-powered and a string-type trimmer, and 
the minor wears eye protection; 
(C) 
Snowblowers and throwers with a “deadman” mechanism as 
required by 29 C.F.R. § 1910.243(e)(4)(vi), which is incorporated by 
reference and available to the public for review as stated in Rule 
1.3; and 
(D) 
Any other equipment the Division may approve through informal 
guidance. 
9.4.2 To perform the job duties permitted by C.R.S. §§ 8-12-106 and -107 
unless: 
(A) 
The employer ensures that the work is adequately supervised by an 
adult, as required by the nature and location of the work, the 
individual minor employee, hazards of the work or circumstances, 
and any other relevant factors; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-20 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
20 
(B) 
The minor has received appropriate first aid and safety training. 
(C) 
If an employer does not directly provide the required supervision 
and training, the employer must prove that it had a reasonable, 
good-faith belief that the required supervision and training were 
provided. 
9.4.3 To perform job duties other than those authorized by C.R.S. §§ 8-12-106 
and -107. 
9.5 
An employer shall not permit a minor under twelve to perform any job duties 
other than those authorized by C.R.S. § 8-12-106. 
9.6 
Rule 9.6 incorporates by reference Agricultural Labor Conditions Rule 3, 7 CCR 
1103-15, as identified and made available to the public for review in Rule 1.3, 
except that as incorporated, an employer shall provide the heat protections 
contained in Agricultural Labor Conditions Rule 3 to all minors when the 
Agricultural Labor Conditions Rules 3.1 and 3.4 thresholds are triggered.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-20 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
21 
Rule 10. 
Exemptions, Exceptions, and Criteria 
10.1 The Division may grant exemptions from any provision of the CYEOA concerning 
restrictions on work hours and occupations “for an individual minor if . . . such an 
exemption would be in the best interests of the minor involved.” C.R.S. § 8-12-
104(3). 
10.1.1 Requests for exemptions must be submitted on forms provided by the 
Division, in accordance with procedures set by the Division. These forms 
and procedures may require information and documentation to 
demonstrate that the request is in the “best interest of the minor involved.” 
10.1.2 The request may be submitted by any employer, minor, minor’s parent or 
guardian, school official, or youth employment specialist. A request from 
an employer, school official, or youth employment specialist will not be 
approved without agreement by the minor and, if appropriate, the minor’s 
parent or guardian. 
10.1.3 When considering whether an exemption is in the best interest of the 
minor, the Division shall consider the totality of the circumstances. The 
relevant factors and weight of each factor are determined by the Division 
on a case-by-case basis. The Division will always consider the following, 
but may also consider other factors: 
(A) 
the minor’s training and knowledge of safety practices related to the 
work; 
(B) 
relative degree of safety, and any safety measures proposed by the 
employer; 
(C) 
educational impact, including the work’s impact on the minor’s 
ability to attend school and educational benefits of the work itself; 
(D) 
overall impact on the health and well-being of the minor; and 
(E) 
benefits to the minor, including career growth potential and whether 
the minor is fairly compensated for the work performed. 
10.1.4 When evaluating the exemption, the Division may use all information-
gathering authority it is granted by law and may visit the proposed 
workplace or require the minor to complete a test of proficiency. 
10.2 A minor fourteen or older may perform hazardous duties as listed in Rule 8 as 
part of their employment, without an exemption if the minor meets the 
requirements of C.R.S. § 8-12-110(1).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-20 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
22 
10.2.1 Apprenticeship training, as used in C.R.S. § 8-12-110(1), means 
apprenticeship training that is approved by, and registered with, 
Colorado’s State Apprenticeship Agency or the United States Department 
of Labor. 
Rule 11. Minimum Wage for Minors 
11.1 Definitions. For the purposes of this Rule 11 and only this Rule 11: 
11.1.1 “Minor” means any individual who is under eighteen years of age and is 
not an “emancipated minor.” 
11.1.2 “Emancipated minor” means any individual who is less than eighteen 
years of age who (A) has the sole or primary responsibility for their own 
support; (B) is married and living away from parents or guardian; or (C) is 
able to show that their well-being is substantially dependent upon being 
gainfully employed. 
11.1.3 “Employee” has the same meaning as C.R.S. § 8-4-101(5). 
11.1.4 “Employer” has the same meaning as C.R.S. § 8-4-101(6). 
11.2 Pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-6-108.5, “the minimum wage for minors may be fifteen 
percent below the minimum wage for other workers; except that the full minimum 
wage shall be paid to any emancipated minor.” 
11.2.1 The reduced minimum wage may only be paid if, after diligent inquiry, the 
employer determines that a minor is not emancipated. The employer must 
keep records of this inquiry, including the information considered and the 
final determination. 
11.2.2 The reduced minimum wage may only be paid to individuals employed as 
minors in compliance with Colorado law. Minors who are employed in 
violation of the CYEOA or these Rules are entitled to the full minimum 
wage.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-20 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
23 
______________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 02/01/2026.
