---
id: "7_CCR_1103-2"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "7 CCR 1103-2"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=449&fileName=7%20CCR%201103-2&type=pdf"
---

#### 7_CCR_1103-2. 7 CCR 1103-2

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR AND EMPLOYMENT 
Division of Labor 
COLORADO WORKS PROGRAM ACT GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE RULES 
7 CCR 1103-2 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Section 1  Basis, Purpose, and Statutory Authority 
The purpose of the following rules is to establish a grievance procedure for use by the employment 
community in matters related to welfare reform in compliance with sections 26-2-716 (3)(a) (IV), (b) of the 
Colorado Works Program Act, (CWPA) and provisions of the Personal Responsibility and Work 
Opportunity Reconciliation Act, (PRWORA) of 1996, as amended. The director of the division of labor 
has the power to adopt, amend, or rescind, in accordance with section 24-4-103, and 8-1-107 (2)(r) 
C.R.S., as amended reasonable and necessary rules relating to the administration of the grievance 
procedure of the Colorado Works Program Act. 
Section 2  Powers and Duties 
The labor standards unit in the division of labor is responsible for administering the provisions of these 
rules. In carrying out the provisions of these rules, the director of the division of labor has all applicable 
duties and powers as outlined in Title 8, Article 1 of Colorado Revised Statutes, as amended. 
Section 3  Definitions 
3.1  - Definitions 
THE FOLLOWING DEFINITIONS APPLY TO THESE RULES ONLY: 
3.1.1  Administrator: the administrator of the labor standards unit in the division of labor. 
3.1.2  Administrative Law Judge (ALJ): an administrative law judge appointed pursuant to section 
24-30-1003, C.R.S., as amended. 
3.1.3  Adult: the head of a household, including an emancipated minor or an individual over the 
age of 18. 
3.1.4  Complaint: a completed complaint form, or other document containing essentially the same 
information, received by the division of labor, with regard to a potential violation of the 
provisions of the Colorado Works Program Act, or these rules. 
3.1.5  Complainant: a person who has filed a complaint with the division of labor. 
3.1.6  Director: the director of the division of labor. 
3.1.7  Displacement of a regular employee by a participant: includes but is not limited to: 
(a)  A reduction of hours (regular or overtime), compensation, or fringe benefits, 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
2 
(b)  A failure to restore a regular employee to the same or equivalent position after the 
conclusion of approved leave of absence, including but not limited to vacation, 
sick, maternity, family/medical leave, military reserve training or a Workers' 
Compensation related temporary disability, 
(c)  Replacement while on a strike, lockout or other organized labor dispute, 
(d)  Terminations, suspensions, reductions in workforce, or layoffs for the purpose of 
displacement, 
(e)  Other displacements as determined by the director or administrative law judge at any 
proceedings conducted under the provisions of these rules. 
3.1.8  Division: the division of labor in the Colorado Department of Labor and Employment 
established by section, 24-1-121 (3)(a)(l), C.R.S, as amended. 
3.1.9  Employee: any adult, performing labor or services for the benefit of and subject to the 
direction and control of an employer. 
3.1.10  Employer: any individual, limited liability company, partnership, corporation, association, 
county, and public or private organization of any character employing any Temporary 
Assistance for Needy Families (JANF) welfare to work participant in Colorado. 
3.1.11  Executive Director: the executive director of the department of labor and employment. 
3.1.12  Final Determination: the decision of the director at Step II - Director’s Hearing unless 
appealed to Step III - Administrative Law Judge. In such cases the final determination is 
the decision of the administrative law judge. 
3.1.13  Final Investigative Report: the final investigative report released by a division investigator 
at step I of the grievance process. The report shall contain findings, recommendations, 
and appropriate material responses from interested parties. 
3.1.14  Finding: a summary of a condition, in a preliminary or final investigative report, which is 
substantially out of compliance, or may have a material impact on an employer’s positive 
participation in programs authorized by the Colorado Works Program Act. 
3.1.15  Full time: performing work for the benefit of an employer for a minimum of 32 hours per 
work 
3.1.16  Hearing: a hearing as described in the Section 7 - Grievance Procedure of these rules. 
3.1.17  Investigator: an investigator of the division of labor. 
3.1.18  Investigator’s Determination: the initial findings and recommendations made by the 
investigator in the final investigative report. 
3.1.19  Participant: an adult participating in a Welfare-to-Work component of the CWPA or 
Subtitle A, (TANF Block Grant) of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Act 
of 1996, as amended. A participant becomes a regular employee when he/she attains 
permanent employment, and is no longer receiving public assistance under the TANF 
programs referenced in section 3.1.26.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
3 
3.1.20  Person: any individual, corporation, government, or governmental subdivision or agency, 
business trust, estate, trust, limited liability company, partnership, association, or other 
legal entity. 
3.1.21  Preliminary Report: the initial report prepared by a division investigator in step I of the 
grievance process, and is intended to inform interested parties of the likely content of the 
final investigative report, and to prompt written responses to the findings and 
recommendations contained in the report. 
3.1.22  Program: refers to organized strategical plans, with regard to welfare reform, as 
referenced and authorized in the Colorado Works Program Act (CWPA), or the Personal 
Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (PRWORA), as 
amended. 
3.1.23  Recommendation: an official suggestion, in a preliminary or final investigative report, 
regarding the actions an employer might take to bring an outlined condition into 
compliance, or interested parties might take to bring resolution to an outlined dispute. 
3.1.24  Re-determination: the review conducted by the administrator of the labor standards unit in 
the division of labor. 
3.1.25  Regular Employee: an employee who is not a participant, and who was working for an 
employer during the period relevant to any complaint filed under these rules. 
3.1.26  Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF): Refers to the implementation of 
federal block grants assistance under the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity 
Reconciliation Act of 1996 (PRWORA). 
Section 4  Employer Records 
Each employer participating in any welfare reform program, at any level, shall maintain true and accurate 
work records containing such information as the division may prescribe. Such records shall be maintained 
for a period of not less than five years and shall be open for inspection and be subject to copying in 
accordance with section 8-1-117, C.R.S., as amended. 
Information obtained, pursuant to an investigation conducted under these rules, shall be confidential and 
shall not be open to public inspection. In the administration of the Colorado Works Program Act and the 
rules promulgated in accordance with that act, the division shall cooperate with the county governments 
of the State of Colorado, the Colorado Department of Human Services, the United States Department of 
Labor, and the United States Department of Health and Human Services to the fullest extent consistent 
with the provisions of these rules. 
Section 5  Grievance Process 
This section documents the steps of the grievance process. For the Grievance Procedure see Section 7. 
5.1  Step I - Complaint 
(a)  Complaint 
(b)  Investigation 
(c)  Preliminary report 
(d)  Final report (determination)

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
4 
(e)  Protest findings and recommendations in the final investigative report 
(f)  Administrator’s review (re-determination) 
(g)  Administrator’s settlement conference 
(h)  Appeal to Step II - Director’s Hearing within fifteen (15) calendar days of the date of the 
administrator’s decision 
(I)  If no such appeal is filed, the decision of the administrator becomes final 
5.2 Step II - Director’s Hearing 
(a)  Hearing 
(b)  Issuance of decision (final order). Such order shall represent the agency’s final determination 
(c)  Appeal to Step III- Administrative Law Judge within thirty (30) calendar days 
(d)  If no such appeal if filed, the decision (order) of the director shall become final 
5.3  Step III - Administrative Law Judge Appeal 
(a)  Review conducted at the division of administrative hearings in the department of personnel 
(b)  The administrative law judge shall render a decision within one hundred twenty (120) days of the 
receipt of an appeal 
(c)  Appeal to Step IV - Judicial Review within thirty (30) calendar days of the decision of the 
administrative law judge 
(d)  If no such appeal is filed, the decision of the administrative law judge becomes final 
5.4  Step IV - Judicial Review - Courts 
(a)  Judicial review in accordance with the provisions of 24-4-106: C.R.S., as amended. 
Section 6  Remedies 
6.1  Remedies Authorized 
(a)  For the purposes of these rules, remedies authorized may include, but are not limited to: 
1.  Back pay 
2.  Reinstatement (with or without back pay) 
3.  Restoration of benefit packages, including but not limited to; 
-  vacation leave accrual 
-  sick leave accrual 
-  employer’s contribution to retirement plans

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
5 
4.  Restoration of service credit (anniversary or hire date) 
5.  Suspension or termination of payments from funds under the Colorado Works Program Act 
6.  Suspension or termination of future placement of participants with an employer who has 
knowingly violated any protections provided under these rules 
7.  The director may order other equitable relief where appropriate 
(b)  Nothing in this rule shall be construed to limit the ability or right of any individual or his or her 
exclusive bargaining representative from pursuing available procedures and remedies under any 
applicable collective bargaining agreement. 
(c)  In the event the application of these remedies changes the placement status of a participant, such 
application should not be deemed to prejudice the participant’s eligibility for benefits under any 
welfare reform program. 
Section 7  Grievance Procedure 
7.1  Step I 
7.1.1  - Complaint 
(a)  Any party who believes they have been displaced from employment in violation of the Colorado 
Works Program Act, can file a complaint with the division of labor - labor standards unit in the 
Colorado Department of Labor and Employment. 
(b)  Complaints must be filed in writing, and contain: 
1.)  The name, address, telephone number, and social security number of the complainant. 
2.)  The name, address and telephone number of the employer. 
3.)  A summary of the complaint including the position last held by the complainant, the hire date 
of the complainant, the termination date of the complainant, and any information available 
on the person believed to have replaced the complainant. 
4.)  Any other evidence that supports the validity of the complaint. 
7.1.2  -Investigation 
(a)  Upon receipt of a complaint the division will: 
1.)  Review the complaint to determine if it has jurisdiction to handle the complaint. 
2.)  Assign the case to an investigator and conduct an investigation to gather and review 
evidence. 
3.)  At the conclusion of the investigation the investigator shall issue a preliminary report. Such 
report will contain findings and recommendations; a copy of which will be made available 
to the complainant and employer. 
4.)  Both parties will have fourteen (14) calendar days to provide comments, responses, or 
additional information for consideration.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
6 
5.)  The investigator incorporates responses and other appropriate information into the report and 
issues a final investigative report. 
(b)  If both parties agree with the findings and recommendations the parties shall submit evidence 
documenting the affirmative actions taken or agreed upon to settle the dispute. The investigator 
may assist in documenting such affirmative actions or agreement. 
(c)  A complainant may not waive any rights, or accept a settlement amount of less than that 
recommended in the final investigative report except as agreed upon in a settlement conference 
before the administrator of the labor standards unit as provided for in section 7.1.3 (d) (3) and (4) 
of these rules. 
(d)  Either party who wishes to protest the findings and recommendations in the final investigative report 
may request an administrator’s review. 
(e)  The request for an administrator’s review shall be filed with the administrator of the labor standards 
unit of the division of labor, within fifteen (15) calendar days from the release date of the final 
investigative report. 
(f)  If no protest, as provided for in subsection (d) of this section 7.1.2 is filed, the determination of the 
investigator in the final investigative report shall become final. 
7.1.3  - Administrator’s Review 
(a)  Upon timely receipt of a request for an administrator’s review from either party, the administrator 
shall; 
1.)  Review the investigative report to determine that; 
-  the investigative report was prepared in accordance with unit policy and procedure, 
-  findings are reasonable and supported by substantial evidence, 
-  recommendations are appropriate and reasonable. 
2.)  If the administrator finds a material problem with the report, it may be returned to the 
investigation’s unit for further follow-up work. 
3.)  If the administrator finds no material problem with the report, both parties are notified of such 
decision and the parties are invited to participate in a settlement conference. 
4.)  If all parties agree, the administrator schedules the settlement conference, and notifies all 
parties of the time and date of the conference. 
5.)  If any interested party refuses to participate in a settlement conference, the grievance can be 
appealed to Step II - Director’s Hearing within fifteen (15) calendar days of the 
administrator’s decision. 
6.)  The administrator shall within thirty (30) calendar days of the receipt of a request for 
settlement conference issue a re-determination decision. 
7.)  The parties shall not request an appeal of the administrator’s decision if a settlement 
conference as provided for in subsection 4 of this section 7.1.2

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
7 
(a)  has been scheduled. The time limit for requesting an appeal to Step II of the 
grievance process will start at the conclusion of such settlement conference. 
(b)  Any party wishing to appeal an adverse decision of the administrator may request a 
hearing before the director of the division of labor at Step II - Director’s Hearing 
of the grievance process. Such appeal shall be filed with the director of the 
division of labor at the department of labor and employment within fifteen (15) 
calendar days of the date of the administrator’s re-determination decision. 
(c)  If no such request is filed, the decision of the administrator becomes final. 
7.2  Step II - Director’s Hearing 
(a)  Upon receipt of a request for hearing to appeal the administrator’s decision, the director of the 
division of labor shall schedule a hearing. Such proceeding shall be conducted in accordance 
with the State Administrative Procedures Act. 
(b)  The director shall issue a decision within ten (10) calendar days of the conclusion of a hearing as 
provided for in sub-section (a) of this section 7.2. Such decision which shall be an order upon the 
parties. 
(c)  Any party wishing to appeal an adverse decision of the director may appeal to Step III - Administrative 
Law Judge, by filing such appeal with the division of administrative hearings, and the division of 
labor within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of the director’s decision (order). 
(d)  If no such appeal is filed as outlined in subsection (c) of this section 7.2, the decision (order) of the 
director shall become final. Such decision shall represent a final determination, or final agency 
action. 
(e)  The director may obtain a decree of the district court for the enforcement of such order upon showing 
that a party is subject to the jurisdiction of the division, and resides or transacts business within 
the county in which the petition for enforcement is brought. 
7.3  Step III - Administrative Law Judge Appeal 
(a)  An aggrieved complainant can file an appeal with the division of administrative hearings. A request for 
appeal can be filed by mailing or delivering the request to the offices of the Director of the 
Division of Labor, and the offices of the Chief Administrative Law Judge at the Division of 
Administrative Hearings. The request must be filed at both offices. 
(b)  A copy of the appeal must also be mailed or delivered to all interested parties. The appeal should 
include reasons (exceptions) for why the decision of the director was not correct. The request for 
an appeal review should contain a mailing date and the parties notified should file a response to 
the exceptions within thirty days of that date  The response should be filed with the chief 
administrative law judge at the division of administrative hearings 
(c)  If any interested party intends to have a part, or specific parts, of *e audio recording of the director’s 
hearing transcribed, such request, formally referred to as a “designation of record”, should be 
filed with the division of labor within twenty days of the date of the director’s decision. A copy of 
the designate shall be mailed or delivered to all interested parties. 
1.)  Upon receipt of a designation of records, or a request for appeal from any interested party, or 
the division of administrative hearings, the division of labor will forward the entire record 
to the division of administrative hearings along with any request for portions of the record

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
8 
to be transcribed. The division of administrative hearings shall cause the requested 
portions of the audio recording to be transcribed. 
2.)The  cost of transcribing all or part of an audio tape of a proceeding shall be paid by the 
requestor. The division of administrative hearings may require the estimated cost of such 
transcript be paid in advance. 
3.)  The entire record shall include, an audio tape of the Director’s Hearing, along with all 
pleadings, applications, evidence, exhibits, and other papers> presented or considered, 
matters officially noticed, rulings upon exceptions, any findings of fact and conclusions of 
law proposed by any party, and any written brief filed. 
(d)  The administrative law judge shall review the record, and issue a decision within one hundred twenty 
(120) days of the receipt of the request for appeal. 
(e)  Any party wishing to appeal an adverse decision of the administrative law judge may appeal to Step 
IV- Judicial Review by filing an appeal within thirty (30) calendar days of the date of the decision 
of the administrative law judge in accordance with the provisions of section 24-4-106 C.R.S., as 
amended.1 
1 Processes at this step are intended to comply with the State Administrative Procedures Act, specifically, 24-4-105, (14), (15), and 
(16), C.R.S., as amended. In the event of a conflict between the information contained in this section and an official printing of the 
State Administrative Procedures Act, the official printing will be the controlling document. 
(f)  If no such appeal is filed, the decision of the administrative law judge becomes final. Such decision 
shall represent a final determination, or final agency action. 
7.4  Step IV - Judicial Review - Courts 
Judicial Review 
(a)  Any appeal for judicial review of the decision of the administrative law judge, shall be brought in the 
appropriate district court for the district where the complainant resides by utilizing appropriate 
proceedings under section 24-4-106, C. R. S., as amended. 
(b)  Such appeal proceeding shall be initiated by the filing of a petition in the appropriate district court and 
the service of a copy thereof upon the agency whose decision is the subject of the appeal, and 
upon all parties who appeared before the division of labor, or the division of administrative 
hearings. Thereafter such proceeding shall be processed under the rules of procedure of that 
court. 
Section 8  Good Cause 
Good Cause 
8.1  - Request for good cause consideration - An interested party who files an untimely request at Steps 1 
-2 of the grievance process, or fails to appear at any conference, hearing, or appeal of those 
steps, may request the director to consider whether there was good cause for failing to meet a 
filing deadline, or appearance dates. 
1)  Any party requesting good cause consideration should file a statement, with the division, 
containing the reasons for why the filing deadline, or appearance date was missed. The 
requesting party shall notify all interested parties of such request. 
2)  Any supporting evidence, which shall include documents outlining the method used to notify 
the parties, should be submitted as an attachment to such statement.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
9 
3)  The requirements in both subsections 1 and 2 of this section 8.1 shall be met before a good 
cause consideration can be conducted. 
8.2  - Good cause consideration - steps 1 - 2 The director will review such statement and supporting 
evidence and issue a decision on the good cause request. All interested parties shall be notified 
of such decision. If the director determines the requesting party had good cause for failing to 
meet the filing deadline, or appear, the grievance process shall continue as if the deadline had 
not been missed. If the director determines that good cause is not demonstrated, the 
determination, re-determination, or decision just prior to the request for good cause consideration 
shall become final. 
8.3  - Good cause consideration - step 3 - The determination of good cause at step three of the grievance 
process shall be made by the division of administrative hearings. 
Section 9  Deadlines 
9.1  For the purpose of these rules, wherever a response, protest or filing deadline falls on a weekend or 
official State holiday, the last day to file shall be the next business day. 
Section 10  Interventions 
10.1  Any person may intervene in any proceeding by filing a motion to intervene demonstrating a 
substantial interest the person has that may be impacted by the proceeding. 
Section 11  Severability 
11.1  If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this rule is for any reason held to be invalid, such 
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of the rule.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
10 
 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History
