---
id: "7_CCR_1103-19"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "7 CCR 1103-19"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=11746&fileName=7%20CCR%201103-19&type=pdf"
---

#### 7_CCR_1103-19. 7 CCR 1103-19

1 
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR AND EMPLOYMENT 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
DELIVERY NETWORK COMPANY (DNC) AND TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY (TNC) 
ACTS LABOR RULES (DATA LABOR RULES) 
7 CCR 1103-19 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Adopted November 13, 2024, effective January 1, 2025. 
Rule 1. Statement of Purpose and Authority 
1.1 
Authority and relation to other orders. The general purpose of these Delivery Network Company 
(DNC) And Transportation Network Company (TNC) Acts Labor Rules (DATA Labor Rules) is to 
exercise the authority of the Director, through the Division, to administer and enforce the 
provisions of the Protections for Delivery Network Company Drivers Act (DNC Act), C.R.S. § 8-4-
126, and the Transportation Network Company Transparency Act (TNC Act), C.R.S. § 8-4-127. 
These Rules are intended to be consistent with the rulemaking requirements of the State 
Administrative Procedure Act, C.R.S. § 24-4-103. 
1.2 
The Director of the Division has authority to enforce, interpret, apply, and administer the 
provisions of C.R.S. Title 8, Articles 1 and 4 and these Rules. 
1.3 
Incorporation by Reference. The DNC Act and TNC Act are hereby incorporated by reference into 
these Rules. Such incorporation excludes later amendments to or editions of the statutes. Unless 
otherwise noted, in these Rules: all statutes cited apply the most recent 2024 versions of the 
Colorado Revised Statutes; all rules cited apply the most recent versions adopted as of the 
adoption of these Rules. These statutes are available for public inspection at the Colorado 
Department of Labor and Employment, Division of Labor Standards & Statistics, 633 17th Street, 
Denver, CO 80202. Copies may be obtained from the Division at a reasonable charge. Electronic 
access is available from the website of the Colorado Secretary of State. Pursuant to C.R.S. § 24-
4-103(12.5)(b), the agency shall provide certified copies of the statutes incorporated at cost upon 
request or shall provide the requestor with information on how to obtain a certified copy of the 
material incorporated by reference from the agency originally issuing the statutes. All Division 
rules are available to the public at www.coloradolaborlaw.gov. Where these Rules have 
provisions different from or contrary to any incorporated or referenced material, the provisions of 
these Rules govern so long as they are consistent with Colorado statutory and constitutional 
provisions. Where these Rules reference another rule, the reference shall be deemed to include 
all subparts of the referenced rule. 
1.4 
Separability. These Rules are intended to remain in effect to the maximum extent possible. If any 
part (including any section, sentence, clause, phrase, word, or number) is held invalid, (A) the 
remainder of the Rule remains valid, and (B) if the provision is held not wholly invalid, but merely 
in need of narrowing, the provision should be retained in narrowed form. 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-19 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
2 
Rule 2. Definitions and Clarifications 
2.1 
“Authorized representative” means a person designated by a party to a complaint to represent the 
party during the Division’s administrative procedure. To designate an authorized representative 
the party shall comply with the requirements for authorizing a representative in the Wage 
Protection Rules, 7 CCR 1103-7, Rule 4.3. 
2.2 
“Complaint” or “claim” interchangeably mean a complaint or claim alleging a violation of the DNC 
Act or TNC Act. “Complainant” means a person who files a complaint or claim. “Respondent” 
means a party against whom a complaint or claim is filed. 
2.3 
“Deactivation” and “suspension” mean conduct that a DNC or TNC engages in to restrict or block 
a driver’s access to the digital platform, including by changing a driver’s status from eligible to 
ineligible, for a period of less than 72 hours for suspension, and for deactivation, for a period of 
72 hours or more under the TNC Act or more than 72 hours under the DNC Act. 
(A) 
If, at the time that it restricts a driver’s access to its digital platform, a DNC or TNC knows 
or reasonably expects that the restriction could last 72 hours or more under the TNC Act 
or more than 72 hours under the DNC Act , the DNC or TNC is considered to have 
“deactivated” the driver and shall comply with the deactivation requirements of the DNC 
Act or TNC Act, respectively. 
(B) 
“Deactivation” or “suspension” does not include a DNC’s or TNC’s restriction of a 
prospective driver’s access to its digital platform prior to that prospective driver having 
performed any delivery tasks using the DNC’s digital platform or any transportation tasks 
using the TNC’s digital platform. 
2.4 
“Delivery Network Company” or “DNC” has the meaning provided in C.R.S. § 8-4-126(1)(c), 
except DNC does not include a motor carrier of towed motor vehicles regulated by the Public 
Utilities Commission pursuant to Part 4 of Article 10.1 of Title 40, or a motor carrier of household 
goods regulated by the Public Utilities Commission pursuant to Part 5 of Article 10.1 of Title 40. 
2.5 
“Disclosure” as used in these Rules means any document, information, or data that a DNC, TNC, 
or Driver Support Organization (“DSO”) shall provide or make available to a driver, a consumer, a 
TNC, a Driver Support Organization, the Division, or the public. 
2.6 
“Division” means the Division of Labor Standards and Statistics in the Colorado Department of 
Labor and Employment. 
2.7 
“Driver” has the meaning provided in C.R.S. § 8-4-126(1)(f) for purposes of the DNC Act, and the 
meaning provided in C.R.S. § 8-4-127(1)(h) for purposes of the TNC Act. For purposes of this 
definition, a “personal vehicle” includes any vehicle that a DNC or TNC allows for performing 
services through its digital platform. 
2.8 
“Task” means and includes: 
(A) 
As to the DNC Act, “task” refers to a “delivery task” and is defined in C.R.S. § 8-4-
126(1)(d) as the time spent, distance traveled, and route followed by a driver to provide 
delivery services to a consumer through a delivery network company, including traveling 
to a merchant’s business; picking up food, beverages, or other goods for delivery; and 
taking and depositing the delivery at a different location, as requested. A delivery task 
may encompass multiple transactions. Task “time,” pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-4-126(1)(d), 
(3)(a)(V), and 3(c)(II), begins when the driver accepts a delivery task and lasts until the 
driver drops off the goods.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-19 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
3 
(B) 
As to the TNC Act, “task” refers to a “transportation task” and is defined in C.R.S. § 8-4-
127(1)(s) as a driver’s provision of transportation services to a consumer or to one or 
more riders for whom a consumer orders transportation services through a TNC’s digital 
platform. 
2.9 
“Transportation Network Company” or “TNC” has the meaning provided in C.R.S. § 40-10.1-
602(3); except that the term does not include a TNC that meets the requirements of C.R.S. § 8-4-
127(1)(q). 
2.10 
Any other definitions provided in the DNC and TNC Acts are hereby incorporated by reference, 
except where terms are defined differently in these Rules. 
Rule 3. Filing, Service, and Deadlines 
3.1 
Except as otherwise provided, documents, complaints, and disclosures shall be filed or submitted 
electronically, on a Division-approved form if one is available, pursuant to these Rules and any 
orders, instructions, and deadlines provided or published by the Division; payments required shall 
be by means, and by deadlines, required by applicable statutes, rules, or instructions from the 
Division. If the Division does not publish an applicable form or provide one to a party when the 
party intends to file, or if a party cannot readily use such means, the party may file by any means 
that provides the filing to the Division, including but not limited to email, other electronic means, or 
mailing or hand-delivering copies. A document is considered “filed” when received by the 
Division; a document received after 11:59 p.m. Mountain Time is considered “filed” the next 
business day. 
3.2 
Any submission is considered “signed” or to have a “signature” if it has an ink, scanned, or 
electronically drawn or generated signature, or a typed name entered by the party or their 
authorized representative in the signature area. By signing in any such manner, the individual is 
deemed to have agreed and assented that the document is signed by them. 
3.3 
Except as otherwise provided, calculations of any prescribed or allowed time periods shall be in 
accordance with C.R.S. § 2-4-108. 
3.4 
Upon receiving a written request for an extension that states the reason an extension is required, 
and that otherwise complies with these Rules, the Division may, at its discretion, extend the 
deadline for “good cause” shown. In considering whether good cause exists, the Division will 
determine whether the reason is substantial and reasonable, based on all the available 
information and the circumstances. 
Rule 4. Complaints, Investigations, and Determinations 
4.1 
Complaints. 
4.1.1 
A person who is aggrieved by a violation of the DNC or TNC Acts, or their authorized 
representative, may file a complaint with the Division. 
(A) 
The complaint shall include the complainant’s signature and contact information, 
and a short, plain statement of its grounds. 
(B) 
Failure to respond timely to Division requests for additional supporting 
information or documentation may result in dismissal of the complaint.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-19 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
4 
(C) 
The Director may initiate, file, and investigate alleged violations in response to 
complaints filed or at its discretion. Decisions under this Rule are within the 
discretion of the Director’s authority to enforce and administer the DNC and TNC 
Acts, these Rules, and other applicable statutes and rules. 
4.1.2 
The Division will evaluate complaints to determine if the Division has jurisdiction over the 
alleged conduct, if sufficient allegations and evidence have been shown from which a 
violation of applicable law may be reasonably inferred, and if, in the Director’s good faith 
discretion and judgment, the complaint warrants investigation. 
4.1.3 
A complainant may withdraw a complaint at any time prior to issuance of a determination. 
4.2 
Notices of Investigation to respondents. 
4.2.1 
If the Division exercises its discretion to investigate, it shall give notice of the allegations, 
and request that an answer be filed by the respondent. 
4.2.2 
The respondent shall file an answer responding to each allegation, and attach any 
documentation or evidence the respondent wishes the Division to consider, within 21 
days of the date of the Division’s notice. The Division may exercise discretion to shorten 
the response deadline. 
4.2.3 
Upon written request, at the Division’s discretion, other parties or entities may be joined 
as complainants. 
4.3 
Investigation and determination of complaints. 
4.3.1 
Upon receipt of a complaint, the answer, and any supplemental information or 
documentation, the Division shall determine what if any additional investigation is 
required. 
4.3.2 
During the investigation, if information is provided to the Division by a source requesting 
or otherwise warranting confidentiality, and that information is used as a basis for 
procuring other evidence but not offered as evidence itself, or as evidence of liability, but 
not to establish individual relief for the source of the information, or in other 
circumstances in which confidentiality is necessary and appropriate, then the source shall 
remain confidential. 
4.3.3 
The Director may exercise discretion to adjourn hearings; to permit additional time for 
submissions; to extend ordered deadlines for good cause or by consent; and to issue 
orders disposing of a complaint without a hearing. 
4.3.4 
Where a complaint or investigation for violation of these Rules or the statutes they 
enforce has been filed or commenced, all parties shall preserve all relevant documents 
until final disposition and until the expiration of the statutory period within which a person 
aggrieved may bring a civil action. 
4.3.5 
The Division may exercise its discretion to have an investigation sequenced and/or 
divided into two or more stages on discrete questions of liability or relief (e.g., 
bifurcation), yielding two or more determinations and/or phases of the investigation. 
4.3.6 
The Division may exercise its discretion to terminate an investigation at any time.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-19 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
5 
4.3.7 
Upon completing an investigation that has not been terminated, the Division shall issue 
all parties a determination as to whether a violation of applicable law occurred. Upon 
completion of any further internal review by the Division, or absent a request for such 
review, the determination shall constitute final agency action, and final decision of the 
Director, subject to judicial review pursuant to C.R.S. § 24-4-106. 
4.4 
Remedies for violations. 
4.4.1 
Remedies for violations of applicable law may include any of the following, depending on 
which, if any, the Division’s findings support: 
(A) 
Monetary damages in the amount of $1,000, as determined by the Director, on a 
per-consumer or per-driver basis, which amount a TNC respondent shall pay to 
the affected consumer or driver; 
(B) 
Fines in the amount of $100 per violation, as determined by the Director on a 
per-consumer or per-driver basis, which a TNC respondent or DNC respondent 
shall pay to the Division; 
(C) 
Any other relief authorized by applicable statutes the Division enforces or 
administers. 
4.4.2 
Monetary remedies are calculated on a per-consumer or per-driver basis regardless of 
the degree of similarity of the challenged disclosures or other conduct at issue. 
Rule 5. Requirements as to DNCs 
5.1 
Wage transparency disclosures to drivers. As to disclosures under C.R.S. § 8-4-126(3): 
5.1.1 
When a DNC makes a disclosure pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-4-126(3)(b)(I)–(II) for a delivery 
task involving multiple transactions, the DNC shall provide the required amounts 
disaggregated by transaction, if such amounts are determined on a transaction basis. 
5.1.2 
To comply with the requirement that DNCs disclose information regarding the pick-up and 
delivery locations contained in C.R.S. 8-4-126(3)(a)(IV), DNCs may disclose to the driver 
on a smartphone or similar screen a map showing the location of each, as long as all 
requirements in C.R.S. 8-4-126(3)(e) are otherwise met. 
5.1.3 
Disclosures pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-4-126(3)(b), (d) and (e) may be in machine-readable, 
downloadable data (e.g., a .csv file) that: 
(A) 
may include prior data listed separately (e.g., a file listing a recent task or 
summary, followed by prior tasks or summaries), and 
(B) 
so long as legible, shall be deemed compliant with the C.R.S. § 8-4-126(3)(f) 
display requirements. 
5.2 
Task acceptance time. 
5.2.1 
The requirement that DNCs ensure all drivers have at least sixty seconds to decide 
whether or not to accept an offered delivery task applies to all task offers, including an 
offer to compensate a driver for a block of time for multiple deliveries.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-19 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
6 
5.2.2 
A DNC is considered to “encourage the driver to respond to a delivery task offer in a 
period of less than sixty seconds after displaying the offer on the driver’s smartphone or 
similar screen” within the meaning of C.R.S. § 8-4-126(7)(b) if the DNC rewards, or has a 
policy of rewarding, drivers for responding to a delivery task offer in less than sixty 
seconds, whether the driver’s response time is the entire basis of the reward or only one 
factor. “Rewards” or “rewarding” for purposes of this Rule include: 
(A) 
Paying or offering to pay a higher amount for one or more delivery tasks; 
(B) 
Giving a driver selective or preferential access to delivery task offers; or 
(C) 
Any other incentive provided or offered by a DNC to a driver. 
5.3 
Disclosures to consumers. 
5.3.1 
For the purpose of complying with the driver safety consumer prompting requirements 
under C.R.S. § 8-4-126(6): 
(A) 
A DNC is considered to “connect” a consumer to a driver only once. That one 
instance shall occur at a time that provides the consumer with sufficient time to 
review and act upon the prompt before the driver arrives at the consumer’s 
location. 
(B) 
If a delivery task includes transactions involving more than one consumer, a DNC 
shall prompt each individual consumer. 
5.3.2 
For consumer payment disclosures made pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-4-126(2), the “amount 
that the consumer paid or will pay for the transaction” does not include membership fees 
or dues paid by a consumer to a DNC. 
Rule 6. Requirements as to TNCs 
6.1 
TNC disclosures to drivers. 
6.1.1 
Deactivation and suspension policy disclosures. As to the deactivation and suspension 
policy required under C.R.S. § 8-4-127(3): 
(A) 
Any “range of days” for deactivation or suspension shall be estimated in good 
faith by the TNC as a likely duration for the deactivation or suspension. 
(B) 
The policy shall be made available to drivers, posted by the TNC, and sent to the 
Division, on or before May 1, 2025, in accordance with C.R.S. § 8-4-127(3). 
(C) 
On and after June 1, 2025, TNCs shall comply with all requirements of C.R.S. § 
8-4-127(3), and shall not deactivate or suspend a driver unless the deactivation 
or suspension is consistent with the TNC’s deactivation and suspension policy, or 
amended deactivation and suspension policy, as written and distributed in 
accordance with C.R.S. § 8-4-127(3). 
6.1.2 
Suspension and deactivation disclosures. As to the written disclosure provided to drivers 
within 24 hours of a deactivation or suspension under C.R.S. § 8-4-127(4): A description 
of steps to take, if any, to remedy an alleged violation include, if available to the TNC, any 
remedial steps required by, or related to, regulations or orders promulgated by the Public 
Utilities Commission or other regulatory agency.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-19 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
7 
6.1.3 
Task and pay disclosures. As to disclosures to drivers under C.R.S. § 8-4-127(11), 
effective February 1, 2025: 
(A) 
Pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-4-127(11)(b), if a driver completes multiple transportation 
tasks before resuming available platform time, a TNC shall provide the required 
disclosure for each completed task when the driver resumes available platform 
time. The required disclosure for each task shall be displayed separately, on a 
single screen, for each completed task. 
(B) 
Disclosures made pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-4-127(11)(f) shall be made by the last 
day of the month following the month for which the disclosure is required, or if 
provided on a more frequent basis than monthly, by the end of the last day of the 
period following the relevant reporting period. 
(C) 
Disclosures made pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-4-127(11)(c) and (f) may be in 
machine-readable, downloadable data (e.g., a .csv file), and those under (c): 
(1) 
may include prior data listed separately (e.g., a file listing a recent task or 
summary, followed by prior tasks or summaries), and 
(2) 
so long as legible, shall be deemed compliant with the C.R.S. § 8-4-
127(11)(e) display requirements. 
(D) 
To comply with the requirement that TNCs disclose information regarding the 
driver’s location and consumer’s or rider’s destination contained in C.R.S. § 8-4-
127(11)(a)(I), TNCs may disclose to the driver on a smartphone or similar screen 
a map showing the location of each, as long as all requirements in C.R.S. § 8-4-
127(11)(e) are otherwise met. 
(E) 
To comply with the requirement that TNCs disclose the total amount that a driver 
may be entitled to deduct from income pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-4-127(11)(f)(V), 
TNCs may disclose a single amount based on aggregated miles driven during 
available platform time, dispatch platform time, and consumer platform time. 
6.1.4 
Disclosures to drivers regarding the Driver Support Organization (DSO). As to 
disclosures required under C.R.S. § 8-4-127(6)(b): 
(A) 
Contact information for the certified DSO need not be provided at any time during 
which there is not a certified DSO. 
(B) 
On and after October 31, 2025, pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-4-127(6)(b)(II), TNCs are 
required to disclose the information required under C.R.S. § 8-4-127(6)(b)(I) to 
each new driver only once, before that driver engages in any transportation task 
for the TNC, and to any driver upon deactivation or suspension. 
6.2 
TNC disclosures to the Division. 
6.2.1 
As to TNC disclosures to the Division of the annual number of transportation tasks under 
C.R.S. § 8-4-127(6)(a)(VIII), following the initial disclosure of annual transportation tasks 
completed in 2023 by November 5, 2024, each disclosure made by January 15 shall be 
of the annual number of tasks for the prior calendar year (e.g., disclosing by January 15, 
2025 the number of tasks completed in 2024). 
6.2.2 
As to TNC disclosures to the Division of deactivation and reconsideration information 
under C.R.S. § 8-4-127(9):

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-19 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
8 
(A) 
The reporting period is the prior January 1 through June 30 for the disclosure due 
by August 1, beginning August 1, 2026, and the prior July 1 through December 
31 for the disclosure due by February 1, beginning February 1, 2027. 
(B) 
“Demographic information” means information that a TNC collects or possesses 
regarding a driver’s personal characteristics and includes a driver’s: driver’s 
license number or other unique numerical identifier associated with the driver; 
race or ethnicity; age; gender and gender identity; and the default language 
selected by the driver in the TNC’s digital platform. This Rule does not create a 
requirement that TNCs collect any demographic information; rather, TNCs shall 
disclose all demographic information that it does collect or possess in any 
disclosure made pursuant to the requirements of C.R.S. § 8-4-127(9)(c). 
6.3 
Annual DSO budget and quarterly remittance by TNCs. 
6.3.1 
DSOs shall submit a proposed annual budget when applying for certification, and once 
certified, before each subsequent year of the certified DSO’s three-year term. Each 
proposed annual budget shall cover the upcoming period of October 1 through 
September 30 of the following year. 
6.3.2 
The number of tasks used for the calculation of the annual budget shall be based on the 
total transportation tasks in the prior calendar year, as submitted by TNCs no later than 
January 15 of each year pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-4-127(6)(a)(VIII). The annual budget may 
increase based on the number of tasks in the prior year and the extent of services 
provided to drivers. 
6.3.3 
The DSO’s annual budget shall not exceed seven cents per transportation task based on 
the prior year’s total transportation tasks, with future inflation adjustments published in 
the Publication And Yearly Calculation of Adjusted Labor Compensation (PAY CALC) 
Order, 7 CCR 1103-14. 
6.3.4 
Following each three-year certification period, the Division may increase the maximum 
per-transportation task rate amount that a TNC may be required to pay pursuant to 
C.R.S. § 8-4-127(6)(a)(II)(C) by an amount not exceeding the rate of inflation during the 
prior three-year certification period if the Division determines that the increase is 
necessary to cover the DSO’s costs. 
6.3.5 
A TNC’s quarterly share of the DSO’s approved annual budget, which shall be paid by 
the 15th day after the end of each calendar quarter, shall be calculated as one-quarter of 
the annual DSO budget multiplied by the TNC’s fraction of the total number of TNC tasks 
in the state in the prior year. A TNC’s first quarterly share shall be paid no later than 15 
days following the end of the calendar quarter during which the Division approves the 
certified DSO’s proposed annual budget. 
Rule 7. Requirements as to Both DNCs and TNCs 
7.1 
Translations. The languages into which translations from English are required shall be Spanish, 
Arabic, Amharic, Swahili, and Nepalese for: 
(A) 
Disclosures of DNC driver contracts under C.R.S. § 8-4-126(4) and DNC account 
deactivation policies under C.R.S. § 8-4-126(5). 
(B) 
Disclosures of TNC deactivation and suspension policies under C.R.S. § 8-4-127(3).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-19 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
9 
7.2 
If, at the time required for any disclosure, a DNC or TNC lacks and cannot obtain any of the 
information required by that disclosure, then it shall: 
(A) 
make the disclosure as completely as possible; and 
(B) 
notify the recipient of any such required information as soon as possible. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 01/01/2025.
