---
id: "7_CCR_1107-2"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "7 CCR 1107-2"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12342&fileName=7%20CCR%201107-2&type=pdf"
---

#### 7_CCR_1107-2. 7 CCR 1107-2

1 
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR AND EMPLOYMENT 
Division of Family and Medical Leave Insurance 
REGULATIONS CONCERNING LOCAL GOVERNMENT PARTICIPATION WITH THE 
PAID FAMILY MEDICAL LEAVE PROGRAM 
7 CCR 1107-2 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
______________________________________________________________________ 
2.1 
Statements of Authority, Purpose, and Incorporation by Reference 
1. 
This regulation is adopted pursuant to the authority in section C.R.S. § 8-13.3-
501 et seq. and is intended to be consistent with the requirements of the State 
Administrative Procedures Act, C.R.S. § 24-4-101 et seq. (the “APA”), and the 
Paid Family and Medical Leave Insurance Act, C.R.S. § 8-13.3-501 through 524 
(the “FAMLI Act”). 
2. 
The general purpose of these rules is to exercise the authority of this Division to 
enforce and implement the FAMLI Act with regard to local governments. 
3. 
If any part of these rules is held invalid, the remainder shall remain valid, and if 
any part is held not wholly invalid, but in need of narrowing, it will be retained in 
narrowed form. 
2.2 
Definitions and Clarifications 
1. 
Unless otherwise indicated, terms used here that are defined in the FAMLI Act 
have the same definition as they do under the FAMLI Act. 
2. 
“Governing Body” has the same meaning as in C.R.S. § 29-1-102(12). 
3. 
“Local Government” has the same meaning as defined at C.R.S. § 8-13.3-
503(14), and is limited to Colorado local governments. "Local government" does 
not include: (1) a governmental entity with one or more employees in the state 
personnel system pursuant to Art. XII Section 13 of the Colorado Constitution 
and the State Personnel System Act, C.R.S. § 24-50-101 et seq.; or (2) a 
governmental entity for which premiums were paid pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-13.3-
518(4)(b). 
4. 
“Premium” has the same meaning as in 7 CCR 1107-1 Section 1.2.6. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1107-2 
Division of Family and Medical Leave Insurance 
 
2 
2.3 
Process and Notification of Program Declination 
1. 
Local government employers are permitted to decline participation in the family 
and medical leave insurance program after a written notice has been delivered to 
the Division memorializing the decision by an affirmative vote of the local 
government’s governing body to decline participation in the program. Such a vote 
must follow the local government’s procedures for other votes of the governing 
body for similar decisions. 
A. 
If a local government participates in the family and medical leave program 
on or after January 1, 2024, and later votes to decline participation, the 
declination will not take effect until at least 180 days after the vote, to 
allow individual employees the opportunity to opt into the benefits program 
pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-13.3-514, should individuals choose to elect 
coverage. 
B. 
Public notice must be given in the same manner as any similar business 
before the governing body, and the local government must take/hear 
public comment prior to the vote if the local government has established 
procedures for public comment for similar business. The local 
government’s employees must also be notified in writing prior to the vote 
and provided both information regarding the vote process and the 
opportunity to submit comments through a public process to the governing 
body. 
C. 
Within 30 days following a local government declination vote, the local 
government must provide its local government employees with a written 
individual notice of the local government’s declination vote and the impact 
toward coverage under the FAMLI Act, or other paid family and leave 
insurance coverage. The written notice, must at a minimum, explain the 
differences between benefits offered by the state program and any other 
paid leave plan offered by the local government. The notice must also 
state which employees, if any, are eligible for job protection under the 
federal Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) benefits or other local 
provisions where applicable. The notice must also be delivered to all new 
employees hired after the date of the declination vote.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1107-2 
Division of Family and Medical Leave Insurance 
 
3 
D. 
The written notice described at Section 2.3.1.C must contain information 
regarding the right of local government employees to voluntarily elect 
coverage pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-13.3-514, and the contact information for 
the Division. In addition to providing written notices to individual 
employees in accordance with Section 2.3.1.C of this rule, local 
government employers must also post a notice containing the information 
in a conspicuous and accessible place in each establishment where 
employees are employed; provided, however, in cases where the local 
government employer does not maintain a physical workplace, or an 
employee teleworks or performs work through a web-based or app-based 
platform, notification must be sent via electronic communication or through 
a conspicuous posting in the web-based or app-based platform. The 
individual and posted notices required in Sections 2.3.1.C and 2.3.1.D 
must be in English and in any language representing the first language 
spoken by at least five percent of the local government employer's 
workforce. The Division will create and make available to local 
government employers posters and notices containing the information 
required in this regulation, and local government employers may use the 
posters and notices to comply with the requirements of this section. 
1. 
It is the responsibility of the local government employer to request 
printed materials from the Division. Local government employers 
may be responsible for the printing and mailing costs of such 
materials. 
2. 
It is the responsibility of the local government to provide written 
notification to the Division of the local government employers 
interpretation needs of printed notices for languages other than 
English or Spanish. 
2. 
Local governments without employees are not employers, and as such, do not 
need to register, vote, decline coverage, or otherwise participate in the family and 
medical leave insurance program. 
3. 
The Division may presume that an entity is not a local government if the entity 
does not appear on a public list of local governments published by the Office of 
the State Auditor’s Local Government Audit Division, the Colorado Department of 
Local Affairs, or the Colorado Department of Education. An entity not on those 
lists may overcome the presumption by submitting documentation sufficient to 
establish that it is a local government. 
2.4 
Local Government Employer Participation 
1. 
Local government employers are required to formally notify the Division in writing 
and provide both the date of the vote, and the local government’s decision to 
decline participation in the family and medical leave insurance program.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1107-2 
Division of Family and Medical Leave Insurance 
 
4 
A. 
Local governments which have previously declined participation in the 
family and medical leave insurance program pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-13.3-
522, may subsequently elect coverage at any time by a vote of the 
governing body. 
B. 
A local government may not decline participation in the family and medical 
leave insurance program in part. Any declination by a local government is 
a full declination of family and medical leave insurance program 
participation for that local government employer, except such an employer 
may enter into an agreement with an employee who elects coverage 
pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-13.3-514, whereby the employer agrees to provide 
administrative support to the employee with regard to the employee’s 
program obligations, including but not limited to deducting premiums from 
the employee’s wages and remitting premiums and wage reports to the 
Division on behalf of the employee. 
2. 
A vote to decline coverage is not permanent. A local government which has 
previously declined coverage may vote to renew the declination no later than 
every eight years. The Division will notify the local government of the end of the 
eight-year declination period one year in advance. In the absence of a vote 
further declining coverage, the local government will become a covered employer 
immediately after the end of the eight-year declination period. The local 
government must inform the Division of a declination vote in writing which 
includes the date the vote was taken. 
3. 
When a local government employer returns to coverage pursuant to these rules, 
the employer will be covered and subject to premium liability beginning on the 
earlier of: (1) the effective date specified by the local government employer in its 
notification to the Division; or (2) the first day after the local government 
employer’s deadline to renew its declination has passed. 
4. 
Local government employers that have previously declined participation and then 
subsequently elect or otherwise return to coverage under the family and medical 
leave insurance program pursuant to these regulations must remain in the 
program and pay premiums for a minimum of twelve complete calendar quarters 
after the elected coverage begins. If such an employer chooses to again decline 
participation, notice of such declination must be delivered in writing to the 
Division at least one complete calendar quarter in advance of the end of the 
twelve calendar quarter cycle pursuant to this regulation. 
5. 
Employees must also be notified directly in writing, and at least 180 days before 
the pending or upcoming return to or withdrawal of coverage pursuant to this 
regulation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1107-2 
Division of Family and Medical Leave Insurance 
 
5 
A. 
Local government employers must display a notice containing the 
information required in this regulation in a conspicuous and accessible 
place in each establishment where employees are employed; provided, 
however, in cases where the local government employer does not 
maintain a physical workplace, or an employee teleworks or performs 
work through a web-based or app-based platform, notification must be 
sent via electronic communication or through a conspicuous posting in the 
web-based or app-based platform. 
B. 
The written notice and posting must contain an explanation of employee 
rights under the FAMLI program including but not limited to program 
requirements, benefits, claims process, payroll deductions and premiums, 
the right to job protection and benefit continuation under C.R.S. § 8-13.3-
509, protection against retaliatory personnel actions or other 
discrimination, relevant contact information for the Division, and other 
pertinent information. 
C. 
The notice and poster required by this regulation must be in English and in 
any language representing the first language spoken by at least five 
percent of the local government employer's workplace. The Division will 
create and make available to local government employers posters and 
notices containing information required in this regulation, and local 
government employers may use the posters and notices to comply with 
the requirements of this section. 
6. 
Local governments that decline participation in the family and medical leave 
insurance program are not subject to obligations or prohibitions contained in the 
FAMLI Act or its implementing regulations, except where otherwise expressly 
provided in the FAMLI Act or its implementing regulations. Local governments 
that decline participation in the family and medical leave insurance program are 
not entitled to any rights or protections contained in the FAMLI Act or its 
implementing regulations, except where otherwise expressly provided in the 
FAMLI Act or its implementing regulations. 
2.5 
Overpayments 
In the event of an overpayment of premiums by a local government employee whose 
employer elects coverage after having previously declined coverage, any overpaid 
premiums will be repaid to the employee by the Division. The Division will ensure a 
continuation of coverage for local government employees who have individually opted 
into the benefits program pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-13.3-514, and ensure there is not a 
lapse in coverage prior to the local government’s reinstatement of coverage.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1107-2 
Division of Family and Medical Leave Insurance 
 
6 
______________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 03/17/2022. 
Entire rule eff. 12/30/2022. 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2024. 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2025. 
Rule 2.1 3 eff. 07/01/2025. 
Rules 2.1 3, 2.4 5.C eff. 01/01/2026.
