---
id: "7_CCR_1103-7"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "7 CCR 1103-7"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12405&fileName=7%20CCR%201103-7&type=pdf"
---

#### 7_CCR_1103-7. 7 CCR 1103-7

1 
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR AND EMPLOYMENT 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
WAGE PROTECTION RULES 
7 CCR 1103-7 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
Adopted December 8, 2025; effective February 1, 2026. 
Rule 1. 
Statement of Purpose and Authority 
1.1 
Authority and relation to other orders. The general purpose of these Wage 
Protection Rules (Rules) is to implement labor laws within the jurisdiction of the 
Division, including but not limited to the Colorado Wage Act (CWA) as amended 
by the Wage Protection Act (WPA) of 2014, C.R.S. § 8-4-101 et seq.; the Healthy 
Families and Workplaces Act (HFWA) of 2020, C.R.S. § 8-13.3-401 et seq.; the 
Agricultural Labor Rights and Responsibilities Act, as codified in relevant part at 
C.R.S. §§ 8-6-101.5, 8-6-120, and 8-13.5-201 et seq.; the Equal Pay for Equal
Work Act (EPEWA), C.R.S. Title 8, Article 5 (C.R.S. §§ 8-5-101 et seq.); the
Colorado Employment Opportunity Act, C.R.S. § 8-2-126; the Social Media and
the Workplace Law, § 8-2-127; the Chance to Compete Act, C.R.S. § 8-2-130;
and the Job Application Fairness Act, C.R.S. § 8-2-131. These rules are adopted
pursuant to the Division’s authority in, and as enforcement of, Articles 1, 2, 4-6,
12, 13.3, and 13.5 of Title 8, C.R.S., and are intended to be consistent with the
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, C.R.S. § 24-4-103, and
provisions of these Articles. Unless otherwise noted, in these Rules: all statutes
cited apply the most recent versions of the Colorado Revised Statutes; all rules
cited apply the most recent versions adopted as of the adoption of these Rules.
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
2 
1.2 
Incorporation by reference. The Wage Protection Rules incorporate by reference 
only the following rules stated in Part 578 within Title 29 of the Code of Federal 
Regulations: 29 C.F.R. § 578.3(c), except as identified in Wage Protection Rule 
2.18. These rules are available to the public in electronic form at 
https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-29/subtitle-B/chapter-V/subchapter-A/part-
578/section-578.3, as adopted by the United States Department of Labor’s Wage 
and Hour Division, located at 200 Constitution Ave NW, Washington, DC 20210. 
All incorporated rules refer to the date and edition of those rules in effect as of 
the effective date of these Wage Protection Rules, February 1, 2026, and 
exclude later amendments to or editions of the rules incorporated by reference. 
All sources cited or incorporated by reference are available for public inspection 
at the Colorado Department of Labor and Employment, Division of Labor 
Standards & Statistics, 707 17th Street, Denver, CO 80202. Copies may be 
obtained from the Division of Labor Standards & Statistics at a reasonable 
charge. They can be accessed electronically from the website of the Colorado 
Secretary of State. Pursuant to C.R.S. § 24-4-103(12.5)(b), the agency shall 
provide certified copies of them at cost upon request or shall provide the 
requestor with information on how to obtain a certified copy of the material 
incorporated by reference from the agency originally issuing them. All Division 
Rules are available to the public at www.coloradolaborlaw.gov. 
1.3 
Separability. These Rules are intended to remain in effect to the maximum extent 
possible. If any part of a rule (including any section, sentence, clause, phrase, 
word, or number) is held invalid, (A) the remainder of the rule remains valid, and 
(B) if the provision is held not wholly invalid, but merely in need of narrowing, the 
provision should be retained in narrowed form. 
1.4 
The Director of the Division of Labor Standards and Statistics in the Department 
of Labor and Employment (Director) has the authority to enforce the statutes 
cited in Rule 1.1 above and these Rules. 
Rule 2. 
Definitions and Clarifications 
2.1 
“Administrative procedure” means the process used by the Division to investigate 
wage complaints in accordance with C.R.S. § 8-4-111 and C.R.S. §§ 8-13.3-
407(4), -410, and -411. 
2.2 
“Authorized representative” means a person designated by a party to a wage 
complaint to represent the party during the Division’s administrative procedure. 
To designate an authorized representative, the party must comply with the 
requirements of Rule 4.3.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
3 
2.3 
“Average daily earnings,” as formerly used in C.R.S. § 8-4-109(3)(b), will be 
calculated as follows, unless the Division identifies a legitimate reason to use a 
different method of calculation: 
2.3.1 The most recent typical workweek or pay period will generally be used to 
calculate the average daily earnings. The total gross amount of wages and 
compensation will be divided by the number of days worked. 
2.3.2 If an employee is entitled to and has been paid less than the Colorado 
minimum wage, and has not earned more than the Colorado minimum 
wage, then the Colorado minimum wage will be used to calculate average 
daily earnings. 
2.3.3 All compensation paid to employees, including the hourly rate, shift 
differential, minimum wage tip credit, regularly occurring non-discretionary 
bonuses, commissions, and overtime may be included in the average daily 
earnings calculation. 
2.4 
“Certified copy,” as used in C.R.S. § 8-4-113, means a copy of a Division 
decision issued and signed by the Director of the Division, or his or her designee 
(including any Division staff designated to issue such decision), certifying that the 
document is a true and accurate copy of the decision. A certified copy must be 
requested in writing or may be issued by the Division on its own initiative. A 
Division decision (issued by investigative or hearing staff) will not be filed in court 
unless two weeks have passed since the appeal deadline and either (1) no 
appeal has been filed or (2) if an appeal or other legal challenge was timely filed, 
the decision was not superseded on appeal nor subject to any order barring the 
filing or enforcement of a certified copy. A certified copy will not be issued in the 
event of termination pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-4-111(3). 
2.5 
“Determination” means a decision issued by investigative staff upon the 
conclusion of a wage complaint investigation. “Determination” includes: Citation 
and Notice of Assessment, Determination of Compliance, and Notice of 
Administrative Dismissal, if that Notice of Administrative Dismissal is issued after 
the Division initiated the administrative procedure as described in Rule 4.4. 
2.6 
“Employee” has the following definitions:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
4 
2.6.1 Under the CWA, C.R.S. § 8-4-101(5), an “employee” means any person, 
including a migratory laborer, performing labor or services for the benefit 
of an employer. For the purpose of these Rules, relevant factors in 
determining whether a person is an employee include the degree of 
control the employer may or does exercise over the person and the 
degree to which the person performs work that is the primary work of the 
employer; except that an individual primarily free from control and 
direction in the performance of the service, both under his or her contract 
for the performance of service and in fact, and who is customarily 
engaged in an independent trade, occupation, profession, or business 
related to the service performed is not an “employee”. 
2.6.2 Under the HFWA, C.R.S. § 8-13.3-402(4), “employee” has the same 
meaning as in C.R.S. § 8-4-101(5), but does not include an “employee” as 
defined in 45 U.S.C. § 351(d), who is subject to the federal “Railroad 
Unemployment Insurance Act,” 45 U.S.C. § 351 et seq. An employee’s 
“family member” means (1) an employee’s immediate family member, as 
defined in C.R.S. § 2-4-401(3.7); (2) a child to whom the employee stands 
in loco parentis or a person who stood in loco parentis to the employee 
when the employee was a minor; or (3) a person for whom the employee 
is responsible for providing or arranging health- or safety-related care. 
C.R.S. § 8-13.3-402(6). 
2.7 
“Employer” has the following definitions: 
2.7.1 Under the CWA, C.R.S. § 8-4-101(6), and as applied by the COMPS 
Order, “employer” has the same meaning as in the federal Fair Labor 
Standards Act, 29 U.S.C. § 203(d), and includes a foreign labor 
contractor, a migratory field labor contractor or crew leader, and each 
individual who owns or controls at least 25 percent of the ownership 
interests in an employer; except for a minority owner of the employer that 
demonstrates full delegation of its authority to control day-to-day 
operations of the employer; the state or its agencies or entities, counties, 
cities and counties, municipal corporations, quasi-municipal corporations, 
school districts, and irrigation, reservoir, or drainage conservation 
companies or districts organized and existing under the laws of Colorado. 
“Foreign labor contractor” and “field labor contractor” have the definitions 
in C.R.S. § 8-4-101(7), (8.5).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
5 
2.7.2 Under the HFWA, C.R.S. § 8-13.3-402(5), “employer” has the same 
meaning as in C.R.S. § 8-4-101(6), except that an “employer” also 
includes the state and its agencies or entities, counties, cities and 
counties, municipalities, school districts, and any political subdivisions of 
the state, but does not include the federal government. 
2.7.3 Under the HFWA, C.R.S. § 8-13.3-402(12), “successor employer” is “an 
employing unit, whether or not an employing unit at the time of acquisition, 
that . . . acquires all of an organization, a trade, or a business, or 
substantially all of the assets, of one or more employers subject to” 
HFWA.  A “successor employer” is responsible for an acquired employer’s 
HFWA obligations, including but not limited to accrued, requested, or in-
progress leave.  
(A) 
Acquiring “substantially all of the assets” of an employer is the 
acquisition by one corporation, in exchange solely for all or a part of 
its voting stock, or in exchange solely for all or part of the voting 
stock of a corporation which is in control of the acquiring 
corporation, of substantially all of the properties of another 
corporation, but in determining whether the exchange is solely for 
stock the assumption by the acquiring corporation of a liability of 
the other shall be disregarded; 
(B) 
“Substantially all,” as used in Rule 2.7.3(A), is satisfied if there is a 
transfer of assets representing at least 90 percent of the fair market 
value of the net assets and at least 70 percent of the fair market 
value of the gross assets held by the corporation immediately 
preceding the transfer and which are part of the plan of 
reorganization will be considered as assets held by the corporation 
immediately prior to the transfer;  
(C) 
A “trade” or a “business,” as used in C.R.S. § 8-13.3-402(12), 
includes an employer’s work force. 
2.8 
A “correct address” for a party, including but not limited to as used in C.R.S. § 8-
4-101(15) and these or other applicable Division rules, can include, but is not 
limited to (unless defined otherwise by statute, rule, or order): a physical or email 
address the party used, or provided to the Division, in the investigation (unless 
the party notifies the Division to use an alternate valid address instead); the 
party’s email address; the address on file with the Colorado Secretary of State for 
the party or their registered agent; or an address actually used, or publicly posted 
as a current address for mail or deliveries, by the party.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
6 
2.9 
When considering whether there is “good cause” for an extension of time, 
including as used in C.R.S. § 8-4-113(1)(b), the Division will determine whether 
the reason is substantial and reasonable and must take into account all available 
information and circumstances pertaining to the specific complaint. 
2.10 “Post,” including as used in C.R.S. § 8-4-107, may include electronic posting in a 
place readily accessible to all employees. 
2.11 “Public health emergency” is defined as in C.R.S. § 8-13.3-402. A public health 
emergency is “declared” by any initial, amended, extended, restated, or 
prolonged declaration of an emergency that meets the statutory definition. During 
a public health emergency, employees have a right to use up to 80 hours of paid 
sick leave, that the employer must supplement to an employee who lacks enough 
previously accrued sick leave. Employees can use up to 80 hours of leave for 
reasons listed in C.R.S. § 8-13.3-405(3) only once during the entirety of a public 
health emergency even if such public health emergency is amended, extended, 
restated, or prolonged. 
2.12 “Records reflecting the information contained in an employee’s itemized pay 
statement,” as used in C.R.S. § 8-4-103(4.5), may be kept electronically. The 
records are not required to be copies of the pay statements but must reflect all 
information contained in the pay statements. 
2.13 “Terminated employee,” as used in C.R.S. § 8-4-105(1)(e)(I), includes any 
employee separated from employment, whether the separation occurs by volition 
of the employer or the employee. 
2.14 The Division may enforce the gratuity provisions described in C.R.S. § 8-4-103(6) 
through the administrative procedure described in C.R.S. § 8-4-111. The legal 
treatment of “tips,” “gratuities,” or other monies paid on a similar basis, in any 
source of law, is identical regardless of the terminology used. 
2.15 “‘Wages’ or ‘compensation’” has the same meaning as in C.R.S. § 8-4-101(14). 
“Paid sick leave” required by HFWA constitutes “wages” under C.R.S. § 8-4-
101(14); is covered by the provisions of C.R.S. Title 8, Article 4, and these Rules; 
is defined as paid time off from work that is provided by an employer for one of 
the qualifying reasons described in C.R.S. §§ 8-13.3-404 to -406. C.R.S. § 8-
13.3-402(8)(a), (b).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
7 
2.16 A “written demand,” including as used in C.R.S. § 8-4-101(15), can be sent to the 
employer by electronic means, including but not limited to email and text 
message. Wages must be owed and past due at the time of sending for the 
written demand to be considered valid. The penalty provisions in C.R.S. § 8-4-
109(3)(b) effective on January 1, 2023, shall apply if the 14-day deadline for 
payment after the sending of a written demand without penalties passes on or 
after January 1, 2023, unless a prior written demand was sent more than 14 days 
before January 1, 2023. Notwithstanding the foregoing, when a Division Notice of 
Complaint (or other Division-issued document satisfying the requirements of a 
written demand) is sent where the 14-day deadline for payment is on or after 
January 1, 2023, the passing of that deadline triggers those penalty provisions, 
regardless of whether a prior written demand was sent before the Division’s. 
2.17 Vacation Pay. 
2.17.1 C.R.S. § 8-4-101(14)(a)(III), includes in the definition of “‘wages’ or 
‘compensation’”: “Vacation pay earned in accordance with the terms of 
any agreement. If an employer provides paid vacation for an employee, 
the employer shall pay upon separation from employment all vacation pay 
earned and determinable in accordance with the terms of any agreement 
between the employer and the employee.” “Vacation pay” is pay for leave, 
regardless of its label, that is usable at the employee’s discretion (other 
than procedural requirements such as notice and approval of particular 
dates), rather than leave usable only upon occurrence of a qualifying 
event (for example, a medical need, caretaking requirement, 
bereavement, or holiday). 
2.17.2 The “earned and determinable in accordance with the terms” provision 
does not allow a forfeiture of any earned (accrued) vacation pay, but does 
allow agreements on matters such as: (1) whether there is any vacation 
pay at all; (2) the amount of vacation pay per year or other period; (3) 
whether vacation pay accrues all at once, proportionally each week, 
month, or other period; and (4) whether there is a cap of one year’s worth 
(or more) of vacation pay. Thus, employers may have policies that cap 
employees at a year’s worth of vacation pay, but that do not forfeit any of 
that year’s worth. 
For example, an agreement for ten paid vacation days per year: 
(A) 
may provide that employees can accrue more than ten days, by 
allowing carryover of vacation from year to year; 
(B) 
may cap employees at ten days; but

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
8 
(C) 
may not diminish an employee’s number of days (other than due to 
use by the employee). 
2.18 “Willful,” in Articles within C.R.S., Title 8, that this Division enforces or 
administers, has the same meaning as under 29 C.F.R. § 578.3(c), implementing 
the Fair Labor Standards Act, 29 U.S.C. § 255(a), which is incorporated by 
reference and available to the public for review as stated in Rule 1.2, except that 
as incorporated: 
(A) 
all references to the Fair Labor Standards Act shall include Articles within 
C.R.S., Title 8, that this Division enforces or administers; and 
(B) 
the reference to “a responsible official of the Wage and Hour Division” 
shall include any official of the Division. 
2.19 C.R.S. § 8-4-103(1)(b) describes circumstances under which employers are 
“subject to the penalties specified in section 8-4-113(1).” Despite use of the word 
“penalties” in this section, this language does refer to the fine described in C.R.S. 
§ 8-4-113(1) and is payable to the Division. 
2.20 A complaint, appeal, or other submission to the Division is considered “filed” with 
the Division when it is received by the Division via mail, fax, email, online 
submission, or personal delivery. Any complaint, appeal, or other submission to 
the Division received after 11:59 p.m. Mountain Time is considered filed the next 
business day. Any such submission is considered “signed,” or to have a 
“signature,” if it has either an ink signature, a scanned signature, an electronically 
drawn or generated signature, or a typed name entered by the party or their 
authorized representative in the signature area; by signing in any such fashion, 
the individual is deemed to have agreed and assented that the document is 
signed by them. 
2.21  For purposes of Rules 8 and 9, “Division debtor” means any employer, or any 
other person or entity, who owes wages, fines, or penalties determined by the 
Division to be due to any employee(s), the Division, or any other party. 
2.22 These Rules are to be read in conjunction with other rules promulgated and 
enforced by the Division with additional requirements, including but not limited to 
the Colorado Overtime and Minimum Pay Standards Order (COMPS Order), 7 
CCR 1103-1, the Colorado Whistleblower, Anti-Retaliation, Non-Interference, and 
Notice-Giving Rules (Colorado WARNING Rules), 7 CCR 1103-11, and the 
Publication and Yearly Calculation of Adjusted Labor Compensation (PAY CALC 
Order), 7 CCR 1103-14.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
9 
Rule 3. 
Filing a Wage Complaint 
3.1 
An employee who wishes to file a wage complaint with the Division shall use the 
Division-approved form(s), and shall comply with any other Division instructions 
as to information or submissions required by the Division. 
3.1.1 A wage complaint may only be filed by the employee who did not receive 
his or her wages or compensation. 
3.1.2 A wage complaint shall include the employee’s signature, employee’s 
contact information, employer’s contact information, and basis for the 
wage complaint. Failure to include this information on the wage complaint 
form may result in dismissal of the wage complaint. 
3.1.3 The failure of an employee to respond in a timely manner to informational 
or investigatory requests by the Division may result in dismissal of the 
wage complaint. 
3.1.4 If a wage complaint is dismissed before a Notice of Complaint is sent to 
the employer because the employee failed to respond to a Division 
request for information, the complaint may be reopened if the employee 
provides the requested information or documentation to the Division within 
35 days of the Division’s request for information. Employees may be 
required to file a new complaint if the employee’s response is received 
more than 35 days after the Division’s request for information. 
3.1.5 The Division shall accept wage complaints for amounts of $7,500 or less, 
per employee, for claims filed through June 30, 2026, and $13,000 or less, 
per employee, for claims filed from July 1, 2026, through December 31, 
2027. As of January 1, 2028, this amount will be increased every other 
year for inflation based on the consumer price index or $1,000, whichever 
is greater, as provided in the annual PAY CALC Order. The Division may 
investigate any amounts shown to be owed in an investigation, including in 
investigations the Division initiates without a wage complaint. 
3.1.6 An anonymous complaint is not a “wage complaint” within the meaning of 
C.R.S. § 8-4-111 and C.R.S. §§ 8-13.3-402(8)(a)(I)-(II), - 407, -410, -411 
and will not be investigated using the Division’s administrative procedure. 
The Division may choose to address an anonymous complaint outside of 
the administrative procedure. 
3.2 
An employee may pursue a wage complaint through either the court system or 
the Division’s administrative procedure.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
10 
3.2.1 Employees are not required to use the Division’s administrative procedure 
in order to pursue a wage complaint in court. 
3.2.2 The Division may dismiss or stay an investigation decided by, or pending 
in, a court or other Labor Department with jurisdiction, based on the 
Division’s judgment as to whether Division involvement would be 
productive rather than duplicative. 
3.2.3 As provided by C.R.S. § 8-4-113(2), a certified copy of any citation, notice 
of assessment, or order imposing wages due, fines, or penalties pursuant 
to this article may be filed with the clerk of any court having jurisdiction 
over the parties at any time after the entry of the order. Such a filing can 
be in a county or district court, and will thereby have the effect of a 
judgment from which execution may issue. 
3.3 
The employee may withdraw the wage complaint, or their participation in a 
complaint filed on their behalf as a similarly situated employee, at any time prior 
to issuance of a determination by notifying the Division in writing. 
3.4 
The Division may exercise its discretion to consolidate complaints, or to have an 
investigation sequenced and/or divided into two or more stages on discrete 
questions of liability or relief (e.g., bifurcation), yielding two or more 
determinations and/or phases of the investigation. 
3.5 
Accrual, use, and other matters relating to paid leave under HFWA. 
3.5.1 Accrual of HFWA leave. Paid leave begins to accrue at the 
commencement of employment or on January 1, 2021, whichever is later. 
(A) 
For the minimum HFWA accrual rate of one hour of leave for every 
30 hours worked, up to cap of 48 hours per benefits year (C.R.S. 
§ 8-13.3-403(2)(a)), accrual is based on all “time worked” under 
Rule 1.9 of the COMPS Order, 7 CCR 1103-1, with regular and 
overtime hours counting equally; except under C.R.S. § 8-13.3-
403(2)(c), an overtime-exempt employee accrues paid leave based 
on their normal hours worked up to a maximum of forty per week. 
Once employees have accrued 48 hours of paid leave during the 
benefit year, they do not accrue more, except if an employer 
chooses to provide paid leave in a greater amount. C.R.S. §§ 8-
13.3-403(2)(a), -413.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
11 
(B) 
For hours accrual for purposes of C.R.S. § 8-13.3-403(2)(a), the 
best available, reasonable estimate shall be used for employees 
paid on a fee-for-service basis for which hours are not ordinarily 
tracked and cannot feasibly be tracked, except that higher 
education adjunct faculty paid on a per-credit or per-course basis 
shall be deemed to work three hours total for each in-class hour. 
(C) 
On the day a public health emergency is declared within the 
definition of Rule 2.11, employers are required to immediately 
provide each employee with additional hours of paid leave, usable 
as of the date of the declaration, January 1, 2021, or the 
employee’s first date of employment, whichever is later — whatever 
the employee has accrued prior to the declaration of the public 
health emergency at the regular HFWA rate (i.e., one hour per 30 
worked, up to a maximum of 48 per benefit year), and a one-time 
supplement with the number of hours needed for: 
(1) 
employees who normally work forty or more hours in a week 
to have access to 80 hours of total paid leave; and 
(2) 
employees who normally work under forty hours in a week to 
have access to paid leave hours that are at least the greater 
of the number of hours the employee (a) is scheduled for 
work or paid leave in the 14-day period after the leave 
request, or (b) actually worked in the 14-day period prior to 
the declaration of the public health emergency or the leave 
request, whichever is later. 
(D) 
During the entire duration of a public health emergency (i.e., during 
the time between the date on which the emergency is declared and 
four weeks after the date of the official termination or suspension of 
the emergency declaration), employers: 
(1) 
are required to permit employees to take both (a) the paid 
leave they have accrued prior to the declaration date of the 
public health emergency pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-13.3-
403(2)(a), for any of the qualifying reasons provided in 
C.R.S. § 8-13.3-404(1), and (b) the amount of supplemental 
paid leave that was provided to the employee on the date of 
the declaration of a public health emergency, for any of the 
qualifying reasons provided in C.R.S. §  8-13.3-405(3);

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
12 
(2) 
remain subject to the minimum accrual requirements of 
C.R.S. § 8-13.3-403(2)(a), and employees continue to 
accrue paid leave (up to 48 hours per benefit year); and 
(3) 
must permit an employee to use the full amount of 
supplementary leave provided under C.R.S. § 8-13.3-405(1) 
and this rule, prior to using any of the employee’s previously-
accrued leave under C.R.S. § 8-13.3-403(2)(a), if an 
employee required leave in circumstances that qualify under 
both C.R.S. § 8-13.3-404(1) and C.R.S. § 8-13.3-405(3) 
(e.g., an employee is experiencing symptoms of a 
communicable illness that was the subject of the declaration 
of a public health emergency and needs to obtain testing 
and treatment). 
(E) 
Yearly Basis for HFWA leave. 
(1) 
Carryover. Pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-13.3-403(3)(b), “up to 
forty-eight hours of paid sick leave that an employee accrues 
in a year but does not use carries forward to, and may be 
used in, a subsequent year.” For purposes of C.R.S. § 8-
13.3-403(3)(b), “year” means “a regular and consecutive 
twelve-month period as determined by an employer.” C.R.S. 
§ 8-13.3-402(13). The employer shall not be required to, but 
may, permit an employee to carry forward more than forty-
eight (48) hours of unused paid leave from one benefit year 
to the next. C.R.S. §§ 8-13.3-403(3)(b), -413. 
(2) 
“Benefit year” definition. The applicable "benefit year" is the 
period of 12 consecutive months established by an employer 
in which an employee shall accrue earned sick leave for use. 
Unless otherwise established by an employer in a written 
policy, a “benefit year” is the calendar year. If an employer 
transitions from one type of year to another, the employer 
must ensure that the transition process maintains all HFWA 
rights, and must notify employees in writing of any such 
changes. 
3.5.2 Pay rate and amount of HFWA leave. Under C.R.S. § 8-13.3-402(8), leave 
must be paid at the same rate and with the same benefits, including health 
benefits, as the employee normally earns during hours worked, not 
including overtime premiums, bonuses, or holiday leave pay. Leave must 
be paid on the same schedule as regular wages.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
13 
(A) 
Employees shall be paid for leave the same wages that the 
employee would have earned if the employee had worked, 
excluding bonuses and overtime premiums. The pay rate for leave 
must be at least the applicable minimum wage.  
(1) 
If use of leave does not reduce an employee’s pay (e.g., if 
the employee is paid solely on a salary, commission, or 
piece rate basis, and the leave does not impact total salary, 
commissions, or piece pay), then the employee does not 
earn additional compensation solely for using leave.  
(2) 
If an employee receives a wage in addition to commissions, 
commissions are not included in the pay rate for sick leave.  
(3) 
If an employee works at multiple rates, including shift 
differentials and separate jobs for the same employer, the 
employee shall be paid the rate they would have earned 
during the period of leave. 
(4) 
If the pay rate for the period of leave is unknown, the pay 
rate shall be calculated based upon the employee’s pay over 
a “lookback” period of (i) the 30 calendar days preceding the 
leave, or (ii) at the employer’s option, the most recent full 
pay period(s) or work weeks totaling 28 to 31 days. Earnings 
in the pay rate calculation shall include hourly or salary 
rates, shift differentials, tip credits, and commissions (if 
applicable, see Rule 3.5.2(A)(2) above); and shall not 
include overtime premiums, bonuses, or holiday leave pay.  
(a) 
If an employee has not yet worked a full lookback 
period as noted above, then the period will consist of 
all days worked prior to the leave.  
(b) 
The HFWA pay rate for employees covered by Rule 
3.5.1(B) shall be calculated in accordance with that 
Rule.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
14 
(B) 
The number of hours of paid HFWA leave an employee can take is 
the number of hours the employer reasonably anticipated they 
would have worked during the period of the leave, based on: (1) 
their regular schedule of hours actually worked; (2) or, if leave is 
during a period the employee was anticipated to depart from a 
regular schedule, then hours anticipated for that period; (3) or, if the 
number of hours the employee would have worked during the 
period cannot be reasonably anticipated, then their average hours 
worked during their most recent 30 calendar days of work (or, at the 
employer’s option, the most recent of any full pay period, or 
consecutive full pay periods or work weeks, totaling 28 to 31 days). 
If an employee has not yet been employed for the full 30-day 
duration (or other duration from 28 to 31 days) noted above, their 
entitlement must be determined under 3.5.2(B)(1) or (2). 
(C) 
Indeterminate shifts. If an employee uses paid leave for a shift of 
indeterminate length (for example, a shift that is defined by 
business needs rather than a previously specified number of 
hours), an employer may determine the number of paid leave hours 
used by the employee based on the number of hours actually 
worked by a replacement employee in the same shift. If there is no 
replacement employee for the indeterminate shift, an employer may 
determine the number of paid leave hours used by the employee 
based on the number of hours actually worked by the employee for 
their most similar shift in the past. 
(D) 
On-call employees are entitled to use paid leave during any hours 
they have been scheduled to work, including hours among the 
employee’s on-call time that the employer actually requests the 
employee to work, or any other hours that would qualify as “time 
worked” as defined by Rule 1.9 of the COMPS Order, 7 CCR 1103-
1. Otherwise, being “scheduled to work” does not include shifts for 
which an employee has been asked to be available or on-call. 
However, if an on-call employee has an agreement with an 
employer to be paid for a scheduled shift regardless of whether the 
employee actually works the shift, the employer must provide paid 
leave to a qualifying employee for that shift.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
15 
3.5.3 Use of HFWA leave. 
(A) 
Because an employee “may use accrued paid sick leave as it is 
accrued,” C.R.S. § 8-13.3-403(3)(a), HFWA leave may be used 
immediately upon accrual, but an employer may, in the ordinary 
course of business and in good faith, verify employee hours within 
a month after work is performed and adjust accrued leave to correct 
any inaccuracy, provided that the employee is so notified in writing. 
(B) 
An employer may require use of HFWA leave in hourly increments, 
or may require or allow smaller minimum increments; if an 
employer does not specify the minimum increment in writing, 
employees nevertheless may not use increments smaller than a 
tenth of an hour (i.e., six-minute increments). 
(C) 
An employer cannot apply an absence or attendance policy to an 
employee’s HFWA-qualifying leave use if it could result in adverse 
action against the employee, including discipline, as defined in 
C.R.S. § 8 13.3 407(2)(b). However, after an employee has 
exhausted all leave required by HFWA, an employer can apply an 
absence or attendance policy to any absences taken by the 
employee. 
3.5.4 Applicability of a general paid time off (PTO) policy to HFWA leave. HFWA 
does not require additional leave if an employer policy provides fully paid 
leave for both HFWA and non-HFWA purposes (e.g., sick time and 
vacation) and makes clear to employees, in a writing distributed in 
advance of an actual or anticipated leave request, that: 
(A) 
its leave policy provides PTO — 
(1) 
in at least an amount of hours and with pay sufficient to 
satisfy HFWA and applicable rules (including, if a public 
health emergency is declared, a supplemental amount of 
leave required to satisfy C.R.S. § 8-13.3-405(1) and Rule 
3.5.1(C), 
(2) 
for all the same purposes covered by HFWA and applicable 
rules, not a narrower set of purposes, and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
16 
(3) 
under all the same conditions as under HFWA and 
applicable rules, not stricter or more onerous conditions 
(including but not limited to matters such as accrual, use, 
payment, annual carryover of unused accrued leave, notice 
and documentation requirements, and anti-retaliation and 
anti-interference rights); and 
(B) 
additional HFWA leave need not be provided when employees use 
all of their available PTO for non-HFWA-qualifying reasons (e.g., 
vacation). C.R.S. § 8-13.3-403(4), except if a public health 
emergency is declared after an employee uses some or all 
available PTO for the applicable benefit year, the employer must 
supplement the employee’s current total of accrued, unused leave 
pursuant to Rule 3.5.1(C). 
3.5.5 Notice by employees of HFWA-qualifying leave. 
(A) 
An employee may request leave orally or in writing, including 
electronically (for example, by email or text message). An employer 
may choose additional methods of receiving requests or 
notifications that it deems acceptable, but shall not restrict 
employees from using any method that notifies the employer 
effectively. C.R.S. § 8-13.3-404(2). 
(B) 
For HFWA leave for any health-related or safety-related reason 
within C.R.S. § 8-13.3-404, if the employee’s need for leave is 
“foreseeable,” (1) an employee shall make a good-faith effort to 
provide advance notice and a reasonable effort to schedule the 
leave in a manner that does not unduly disrupt employer 
operations, and (2) an employer may by written policy require 
reasonable procedures to provide notice of foreseeable leave, but 
shall not deny paid sick leave based on noncompliance with such a 
policy. C.R.S. § 8-13.3-404(2), (5). 
(C) 
For HFWA leave that is “related to public health emergency” under 
C.R.S. § 8-13.3-405(3): An employee shall notify their employer of 
their need for leave as soon as practicable if (1) the need for leave 
is foreseeable and (2) the employer’s place of business is not 
closed. C.R.S. § 8-13.3-405(4).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
17 
3.5.6 An employer may require “reasonable documentation” that leave is for a 
HFWA-qualifying purpose only if the leave requested or taken is for “four 
or more consecutive work days,” C.R.S. § 8-13.3-404(6), defined as four 
consecutive days on which the employee would have ordinarily worked 
absent the leave-qualifying condition, not four consecutive calendar days. 
An employer may not require an employee to provide documentation that 
leave is for a qualifying reason “related to [a] public health emergency” 
under C.R.S. § 8-13.3-405(3) – (4). 
(A) 
When documentation is required, an employer may request only 
“reasonable” documentation, which is defined as not more 
documentation than needed to show a HFWA-qualifying reason for 
leave, as described in subparts (B), (C), and (D) below, and an 
employer shall not require disclosure of “details” regarding the 
employee’s or family member’s “health information” or the 
“domestic violence, sexual assault, or stalking” that is the basis for 
HFWA leave (C.R.S. § 8-13.3-412(1)). 
(B) 
To document leave for a health-related need under C.R.S. § 8-
13.3-404(1)(a), (b): 
(1) 
If the employee received any services (including remote 
services) from a health or social services provider for the 
HFWA-qualifying condition or need, a document from that 
provider, indicating a HFWA-qualifying purpose for the leave, 
will suffice. 
(2) 
An employee who did not receive services from a provider 
for the HFWA-qualifying leave, or who cannot obtain a 
document from their provider in reasonable time or without 
added expense, can provide their own writing indicating that 
they took leave for a HFWA-qualifying purpose. 
(C) 
To document leave for a safety-related need covered by C.R.S. § 
8-13.3-404(1)(c) (i.e., domestic abuse, sexual assault, or criminal 
harassment): A document under subpart (B)(1) (from a health 
provider or a non-health provider of legal services, shelter services, 
social work, or other similar services) or an employee writing under 
(B)(2) will suffice, as will a legal document indicating a safety need 
that was the reason for the leave (e.g., a restraining order, other 
court order, or police report).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
18 
(D) 
Submission of documentation to an employer may be provided (1) 
by any reasonable method, including but not limited to electronic 
transmission, (2) at any time until whichever is sooner of an 
employee’s return from leave (or termination of employment, if the 
employee does not return), (3) without a requirement of the 
employee’s signature, notarization, or any other particular 
document format. 
(E) 
Confidentiality of leave-related information and documentation. Any 
information an employer possesses regarding the health of an 
employee or the employee’s family member, or regarding domestic 
abuse, sexual assault, or criminal harassment affecting an 
employee or employee's family member, shall be treated as 
confidential and may not be disclosed to any other individual except 
the affected employee, unless the affected employee provides 
written permission prior to such disclosure. C.R.S. § 8-13.3-
412(2)(c). If the information is in writing, it shall be maintained on a 
separate form and in a separate file from other personnel 
information, and shall be treated as a confidential medical record by 
the employer. C.R.S. § 8-13.3-412(2)(a)-(b). 
(F) 
If an employer reasonably deems an employee’s documentation 
deficient, without imposing a requirement of providing more 
documentation than HFWA or applicable rules permit, prior to 
denying leave, the employer must: (1) notify the employee within 
seven days of either receiving the documentation or the employee’s 
return to work (or termination of employment, if the employee does 
not return), and (2) provide the employee the minimum of seven 
days to cure the deficiency after the employee is notified that the 
employer deems the existing documentation inadequate.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
19 
3.5.7 Employer records of accrued and used paid leave hours. An employer 
“shall retain records for each employee for a two-year period, 
documenting hours worked, paid sick leave accrued, and paid sick leave 
used” (C.R.S. § 8-13.3-409(1)), except that two-year limit does not 
diminish the obligation to retain pay statement records for three years 
(C.R.S. § 8-4-103(4.5)). Upon an employee’s request, an employer must 
provide, in writing or electronically, documents sufficient to show, or a 
dated statement containing, the then-current amount of paid leave the 
employee has (1) available for use, and (2) already used during the 
current benefit year, including information as to any accrued leave 
provided and used subject to C.R.S. § 8-13.3-403 and any supplemental 
public health emergency-related leave provided and used subject to 
C.R.S. § 8-13.3-405(3). Employees may make such requests no more 
than once per month, except they may make an additional request when 
any need for HFWA leave arises. Employers may choose a reasonable 
system for fulfilling such requests, including but not limited to listing such 
information on each pay stub, using an electronic system where 
employees can access their own information, or providing the necessary 
information in a letter or electronic communication. 
3.5.8 Collective bargaining agreements that provide for equivalent or more 
generous paid sick leave. 
(A) 
If a bona fide collective bargaining agreement (CBA) “provides for 
equivalent or more generous paid sick leave for the employees 
covered” (C.R.S. § 8-13.3-415(2), (3)), then: 
(1) 
HFWA does not apply additional requirements (e.g. it does 
not require an additional 48 hours of leave when a CBA 
provides the same amount of leave); and 
(2) 
HFWA does not invalidate the CBA or require its re-opening. 
(B) 
A CBA “provides for equivalent or more generous paid sick leave” 
(C.R.S. §§ 8-13.3-415(2), (3)) if the CBA does not diminish any 
employee protections under HFWA and rules promulgated 
thereunder, including but not limited to the requirements in Rule 
3.5.4(A) and: 
(1) 
accrual and carryover; 
(2) 
use and its conditions (e.g., documentation and notice to 
employers); and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
20 
(3) 
protection and effectuation of paid sick leave rights through 
notice to employees and prohibitions against retaliation 
based on, or interference with, protected activity. 
(C) 
This Rule applies to a CBA that is either: 
(1) 
“in effect on the effective date” of HFWA, July 14, 2020; or 
(2) 
“initially negotiated or negotiated for the next collective 
bargaining agreement after that effective date . . . if the 
requirements of this Part 4 are expressly waived in the 
CBA.” (C.R.S. § 8 13.3 415(2), (3).) 
Rule 4. 
Investigation and Mediation 
4.1 
Wage complaints shall be assigned to Division investigative staff. Investigatory 
methods used by the Division may include: 
(A) 
Interviews of the employer, employee, and other parties; 
(B) 
Information gathering, fact-finding, and reviews of written 
submissions; and 
(C) 
Any other lawful techniques that enable the Division to assess the 
employer’s compliance. 
4.2 
The Division will evaluate wage complaints under the following burden of proof 
structure: 
4.2.1 To initiate a wage complaint, an employee must provide an explanation of 
the basis for the complaint that is clear, specific, and shows the employee 
is entitled to relief. The employee must provide sufficient evidence from 
which both a violation of Colorado wage and hour laws and an estimate of 
wages due may be reasonably inferred. 
4.2.2 The Division may investigate a wage complaint on behalf of a group of 
employees if (A) the claimant so requests and (B) it may be reasonably 
inferred that other employees are similarly situated. If the Division declines 
to investigate a wage complaint on behalf of a group of employees, it shall 
investigate on behalf of the individual claimant, and others similarly 
situated may consent in writing to participate as parties, pursuant to any 
Division instructions as to information or submissions required by the 
Division. Nothing in this Rule 4 limits the Division’s authority for direct 
investigations under the Direct Investigations Rules, 7 CCR 1103-8.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
21 
4.2.3 The burden then shifts to the employer to prove, by a preponderance of 
the evidence, that the employee is not entitled to the claimed relief. If the 
employer fails to meet its burden, the Division may award wages and/or 
penalties to the employee based on the employee’s evidence. 
4.2.4 If the Division concludes that wages are owed to the employee, but cannot 
calculate the precise amount of wages due, then the Division may award a 
reasonable estimate of wages due. 
4.3 
Any party to a wage complaint may designate an authorized representative to 
represent the party during the Division’s administrative procedure. 
4.3.1 The party may designate an authorized representative by filing the 
Division-approved form with the Division. 
4.3.2 If not using the Division-approved form, and the authorized representative 
is a licensed attorney or accountant, the party or the authorized 
representative must provide written notice to the Division that the 
authorized representative will represent the party during the Division’s 
administrative procedure. 
4.3.3 If not using the Division-approved form, and the authorized representative 
is not a licensed attorney or accountant, the party must provide a signed 
written notice to the Division that the authorized representative will 
represent the party during the Division’s administrative procedure. 
4.3.4 The party may revoke the authorized representative’s authority by 
contacting the Division in writing. 
4.4 
After receipt of a wage complaint that states a claim for relief, the Division will 
initiate the administrative procedure by sending a Notice of Complaint to a 
correct address of the employer, along with any relevant supporting 
documentation submitted by the employee, via U.S. postal mail, electronic 
means, or personal delivery. 
4.4.1 If the Notice of Complaint cannot be delivered, and is not otherwise served 
to or received by the employer, the administrative procedure has not been 
initiated, but the Division may resend the Notice of Complaint to a correct 
address, with the response deadline calculated from the date when that 
notice was sent. Any competent evidence may establish that a party was 
served; conclusive proof of service includes proof of delivery to any 
correct address as defined in Rule 2. Proper service is effective regardless 
of whether the party reads or opens the material served.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
22 
4.4.2 If the Division cannot determine the employer’s correct address, it may 
contact the employee to request the employer’s address. The Division 
may dismiss the wage complaint if neither the employee nor the Division 
can determine the employer’s correct address. 
4.4.3 The employer’s response to the Notice of Complaint must include the 
completed Division Employer Response Form, as well as any additional 
information or documentation requested by the Division. An insufficient 
response from the employer may be considered a failure to respond under 
C.R.S. § 8-4-113(1)(b). 
4.4.4 If an employer obtains a good cause extension to respond under C.R.S. § 
8-4-113(1)(b), the extension does not waive or reduce penalties owed to 
the employee pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-4-109(3)(b) if the employer fails to 
pay the employee’s wages within 14 days after the Notice of Complaint is 
sent. 
4.4.5 Where a claim, complaint, or investigation for violation of these Rules or 
the statutes they enforce has been filed or commenced, the employer 
shall preserve all relevant documents until final disposition and until the 
expiration of the statutory period within which a person aggrieved may 
bring a civil action. 
4.5 
After receipt and review of the employer’s response, the Division may contact the 
employee for additional documentation or information. If the employer denies, in 
whole or in part, the allegations in the Notice of Complaint, and the Division 
determines further investigation would be beneficial, the Division shall send to 
the employee any relevant supporting documentation submitted by the employer. 
If the employee does not respond to the request for additional documentation or 
information by the deadline given, the Division will make a determination based 
on the information in the record. 
4.6 
All parties to a wage complaint are responsible for ensuring the Division has 
current contact information. 
4.6.1 All parties must promptly notify the Division of any change in contact 
information, including mailing address, email address, and phone number. 
4.6.2 Parties should not rely on the U.S. Postal Service to forward mail. Failure 
to respond to a notice because mail was not forwarded to a new address 
will not be excused.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
23 
4.7 
In any stage of any Division investigation, proceeding, or other action, if 
information is provided to the Division by a source requesting or otherwise 
warranting confidentiality, then the source shall remain confidential if that 
information is used: (1) as a basis for procuring other evidence, not offered as 
evidence itself; (2) as evidence of liability, but not to establish individual relief for 
the source of the information; or (3) in other circumstances in which 
confidentiality is necessary and appropriate. Any such confidential source is 
unlawful to disclose (unless the source consents) in any administrative or judicial 
proceeding, in response to any records or information request, or in any other 
manner, in order to effectuate statutory requirements including but not limited to 
the following: 
(A) 
If information is properly treated as confidential, the Division “shall 
provide a physical environment and establish policies and 
procedures to ensure confidentiality for all information regarding 
any employer, employee, or person pertaining to any action 
pursuant to articles 1 to 13” (C.R.S. § 8-1-115); 
(B) 
“An employer, or any other person that is regularly engaged in 
business or commercial activity that has contracted with an 
employer or worker, directly or indirectly, for labor from which such 
person is the beneficiary shall not intimidate, threaten, restrain, 
coerce, blacklist, discharge, or in any manner discriminate or 
retaliate against any employee who has: (a) filed a complaint or 
instituted or caused to be instituted a proceeding under this article 4 
or any other law or rule related to wages, hours, or employment of 
minors; (b) testified or provided other evidence, or may testify or 
provide other evidence in a proceeding on behalf of the employee 
or another person regarding afforded protections under this article 4 
or under any other law or rule related to wages, hours, or the 
employment of minors; or (c) raised concerns in good faith about 
compliance with or otherwise provided information as to legal rights 
and remedies available under this article 4 or any other law or rule 
related to wages or hours to any person.” (C.R.S. § 8-4-120(1)); 
(C) 
It is unlawful to “discharge or threaten to discharge, or in any other 
way discriminate against an employee” because s/he “may testify in 
any investigation or proceeding relative to enforcement of this 
article” (C.R.S. § 8-6-115); and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
24 
(D) 
It is unlawful to take adverse action based on “participating in an 
investigation, hearing, or proceeding or cooperating with or 
assisting the Division in its investigations of alleged violations” of 
HFWA (C.R.S. §§ 8-13.3-402(10), -407). 
4.8 
Immigration status is irrelevant to labor rights and responsibilities, and the 
Division shall assure that labor rights and responsibilities apply regardless of 
immigration status, including but not limited to as follows. 
4.8.1 The Division will not voluntarily provide any person or entity information 
concerning the immigration status of (a) a party to a wage claim, (b) a 
person offering information concerning a wage claim, or (c) a person with 
a relationship with anyone in categories (a) or (b). 
4.8.2 Any effort to use a person’s immigration status to negatively impact the 
labor law rights, responsibilities, or proceedings of any person or entity is 
an unlawful act of obstruction, retaliation, and/or extortion, based on 
statutory or rule provisions including but not limited to the following that 
make it unlawful: 
(A) 
For “any person” to “hinder or obstruct the director or any such 
person authorized by the director in the exercise of any power 
conferred by this article,” including but not limited to wage 
investigations, rulemakings, or adjudicative or judicial proceedings 
(C.R.S. § 8-1-116(2)); 
(B) 
For an employer to in any manner discriminate or retaliate against a 
person for exercising labor rights, including but not limited to acts 
that “intimidate, threaten, restrain, coerce, blacklist, discharge, or in 
any manner discriminate or retaliate against any employee who 
has: (a) filed a complaint or instituted or caused to be instituted a 
proceeding under this article 4 or any other law or rule related to 
wages, hours, or employment of minors; (b) testified or provided 
other evidence, or may testify or provide other evidence, in a 
proceeding on behalf of himself, herself, or another regarding 
afforded protections under this article 4 or under any other law or 
rule related to wages, hours; or the employment of minors; or (c) 
raised concerns in good faith about compliance with or otherwise 
provided information as to legal rights and remedies available 
under this article 4 or any other law or rule related to wages or 
hours to any person” (C.R.S. § 8 4-120(1));

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
25 
(C) 
For any person to “threaten to report to law enforcement officials 
the immigration status of the threatened person or another person” 
to “induce another person” to give up money “or another item of 
value” (C.R.S. § 18 3 207(1.5)), including inducing the surrender of 
any “tangible and intangible personal property, contract rights, 
choses in action, or services . . . , and any rights of use or 
enjoyment connected therewith” (C.R.S. § 18-1-901); and 
(D) 
For an employer to deny “any right guaranteed under” HFWA, or to 
take “any adverse action against an employee for exercising any 
right guaranteed” by HFWA (C.R.S. §§ 8-13.3-402(10), -407). 
4.9 
Mediation 
4.9.1 The Division may invite or order parties to a complaint to meet to mediate 
or otherwise attempt to resolve the complaint at any stage of the 
administrative procedure or other applicable process. 
4.9.2 No statements, actions, evidence, or other submissions during or for 
mediation shall be disclosed by any party or used as evidence in any 
subsequent proceeding unless the parties agree otherwise. 
4.9.3 Upon request, parties shall provide the Division copies of settlement 
agreements entered through mediation or private settlement negotiation. 
To the extent that an agreement requires confidentiality, the Division shall, 
in conformity with the Colorado Dispute Resolution Act (C.R.S. § 13-22-
301, et seq.) and other applicable law (e.g., C.R.S. § 8-1-115), maintain 
that confidentiality, subject to any legal restrictions on confidentiality. 
Rule 5. 
Determination 
5.1 
Upon conclusion of the investigation of a wage complaint, the Division will issue 
a determination. 
5.1.1 The Division shall send the determination to all parties via U.S. postal 
mail, electronic means, or personal delivery on the date the determination 
is issued by the Division. The Division shall notify the parties of their 
termination and any appeal rights pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-4-111(3) and 
C.R.S. § 8-4-111.5(1). 
5.1.2 The date of “issuance” of the Division’s determination, as used in C.R.S. § 
8-4-111(3), is the date the Division’s determination is “sent,” as used in 
C.R.S. § 8-4-111.5(1). Both the termination and appeal deadlines are 
calculated from the date the Division’s determination is originally issued 
and sent to the parties.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
26 
5.1.3 If any copies of the decision are sent to the parties after the date the 
Division’s determination is originally issued and sent to the parties, those 
copies are provided only as a courtesy and do not change the 35-day 
appeal and termination deadlines. 
5.1.4 Determinations by the Division may include the following remedies, 
depending on which, if any, the Division’s findings support: 
(A) 
monetary or other relief authorized by the statute(s) under which 
the wage complaint was filed, including but not limited to, where 
applicable — 
(1) 
any unpaid wages, penalties, and/or fines under C.R.S. Title 
8, Articles 1, 4, 6, and 13.3; 
(2) 
if a claim under C.R.S. Title 8, Article 13.3 (HFWA) cost the 
employee a job or pay, back pay plus either reinstatement or 
(if reinstatement is infeasible) front pay for a reasonable 
period; and/or 
(3) 
other fines or penalties authorized by statutes applicable to 
the complaint; 
(B) 
fines or penalties authorized by the statutes on Division 
investigative and enforcement authority in C.R.S. Title 8, Articles 1, 
4, 6, and 13.3; and/or 
(C) 
order(s) to cease non-compliance and/or effectuate compliance, as 
authorized by the statute(s) under which the complaint was filed 
and statutes on Division investigative and enforcement authority in 
C.R.S. Title 8, Articles 1, 4, 6, and 13.3.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
27 
Rule 6. 
Appeal 
6.1 
Any party to the claim may appeal the Division’s determination. 
6.1.1 Parties are encouraged, though not required, to use the Division’s appeal 
form. A valid appeal is a written statement that is timely filed with the 
Division, explains the clear error in the determination that is the basis for 
the appeal, is not frivolous, and has been signed by the party or the 
party’s authorized representative. An appeal is frivolous if it fails to allege 
an error that could result in the reversal or modification of the 
determination or otherwise is manifestly insufficient or futile. 
6.1.2 No appeal will be heard and no hearing will be held unless the appeal is 
received by the Division within 35 calendar days of the date the 
determination is sent. It is the responsibility of the party filing the appeal to 
ensure the appeal is received by the Division within the 35-day filing 
deadline. 
6.1.3 Upon receipt of the appeal, the Division will notify the parties of the date of 
the hearing and any interim deadlines via U.S. postal mail, electronic 
means, or personal delivery. 
6.1.4 Upon receipt of the appeal, the Division will send a copy of the appeal and 
a copy of the record of its investigation to the parties via U.S. postal mail, 
electronic means, or personal delivery. All evidence submitted to the 
Division as part of the investigation is part of the record on appeal and 
need not be resubmitted. 
6.1.5 The filing of an appeal does not, except to the extent that a stay is 
granted, toll any deadlines applicable under, or triggered by the issuance 
of, the determination, decision, or order being appealed. 
6.2 
Parties who timely file a valid appeal of the Division's determination will be 
afforded an administrative appeal hearing before a Division hearing officer, 
unless the hearing officer finds, based on pre-hearing submissions, that the 
appeal presents no issues warranting a live hearing, and gives the parties notice 
and opportunity to be heard as to whether a hearing is warranted. Parties may 
appear by telephone. 
6.3 
The parties may submit new testimonial evidence to the hearing officer in 
accordance with deadlines imposed by the Division. The parties may submit new 
documentary or other non-testimonial evidence in accordance with deadlines 
imposed by the Division and upon showing “good cause,” which may be 
assessed based on any relevant factors, including but not limited to:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
28 
6.3.1 That the new evidence was previously not known or obtainable, despite 
diligent evidence-gathering efforts by the party offering the new evidence; 
6.3.2 That the party failed to receive fair notice of the investigation or of a key 
filing by another party or by the Division to which the new evidence is 
responsive; 
6.3.3 That factors outside the control of the party prevented a timely action or 
interfered with the opportunity to act, except that the acts and omissions of 
a party's authorized representative are considered the acts and omissions 
of the party and are not considered to be a factor outside the party's 
control as intended by this rule; 
6.3.4 That a determination raised a new issue or argument that cannot be 
responded to adequately without the new evidence; 
6.3.5 That, at the investigation stage, the party offering new evidence requested 
more time to submit evidence, yet was denied, and in the hearing officer’s 
judgment (a) the need for more time was legitimate and did not reflect 
neglect by the party, (b) the denial of the request for more time was 
unwarranted, and (c) exclusion of the evidence would cause substantial 
injustice to the party; and/or 
6.3.6 That failure to admit the evidence otherwise would cause substantial 
injustice and did not arise from neglect by the party. 
6.4 
New evidence must be sent to all other parties to the appeal. Failure to send all 
new evidence to all other parties to the appeal may result in the evidence being 
excluded from the record. 
6.5 
If the party who filed the appeal does not participate in the hearing, the appeal 
may be dismissed. 
6.6 
All testimony at a hearing must be recorded by the Division but need not be 
transcribed unless the hearing officer’s decision is appealed. 
6.7 
The hearing officer may, upon the application of any party or on his or her own 
motion, convene a prehearing conference to discuss the issues on appeal, the 
evidence to be presented, and any other relevant matters that may simplify 
further proceedings. 
6.8 
The hearing officer will decide whether the Division’s determination is based on a 
clear error of fact or law. Clear error means that either the correct facts were not 
known at the time the determination was made, or the law was applied 
incorrectly.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
29 
6.9 
The hearing officer shall not engage in ex parte communication with any party to 
an appeal. 
6.10 An appeal may, in the discretion of the hearing officer, be sequenced and/or 
divided into two or more stages on discrete questions of liability and/or relief 
(e.g., bifurcation), yielding two or more decisions and/or phases of the appeal. 
6.11 The hearing officer’s decision constitutes a final agency action pursuant to C.R.S. 
§ 24-4-106. The Division shall promptly provide all parties with a copy of the 
hearing officer’s decision via U.S. postal mail, electronic means, or personal 
delivery, as consistent with applicable law. The Division shall notify the parties of 
their appeal rights pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-4-111.5(5). 
6.12 This Rule 6 applies to all Division wage claims adjudicated under these rules by 
the person designated by the Division to serve as the hearing officer for a claim, 
and for any other Division proceedings, to the maximum extent consistent with 
the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act, C.R.S. §§ 24-4-105, -106. 
Rule 7. 
Attorney Fees and Costs 
7.1 
Where permitted by law, employees, or other applicable claimants or 
complainants, may apply for an award of reasonable attorney fees or costs within 
the timeframe ordered by the Division, and pursuant to orders and instructions 
provided by the Division. 
7.2 
After an application for attorney fees or costs is filed, the Division will send any 
other parties a copy of the application, any supporting documents, and any other 
relevant orders or requests from the Division. Other parties may respond to the 
application, within the timeframe ordered, as to the reasonableness, amount, or 
recoverability of any attorney fees or costs claimed. The Division will send any 
responses it receives to the applicant, who may optionally reply to any points, or 
may be ordered to reply, as directed by the Division. The Division may extend 
deadlines for good cause as described in Rule 2.9. 
7.3 
An award of attorney fees or costs may be appealed pursuant to orders and 
instructions on appeal rights provided by the Division pursuant to Rule 6. 
7.4 
For unpaid wage claims, this Rule 7 applies to only claims filed on or after 
January 1, 2023.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
30 
Rule 8. 
Administrative Liens and Levies 
8.1 
The Division may issue a notice of administrative lien and levy if an employer or 
other Division debtor fails to pay wages, fines, or penalties determined to be due 
in an order that is not the subject of an order staying the enforceability of the 
order, that has not been superseded on appeal, or that is not subject to any order 
barring such action. 
(A) 
Notice shall be provided to the Division debtor, as well as to any 
other known co-owner or any person or entity with possession, 
custody, or control of any of the assets at issue, including a 
financial institution as applicable. 
(B) 
Upon an employee’s written request, the Division will inform the 
employee within 60 calendar days whether it will issue such notice, 
subject to the Division’s discretion to issue such notices on its own 
initiative at any later time. 
(C) 
An administrative lien placed on any and all types of jointly owned 
or shared account(s), including multiple-party accounts as defined 
in C.R.S. § 15-15-201 (collectively, “joint account(s)”) shall require 
the financial institution to freeze 100% of the assets on deposit as 
of the date of the notice of the administrative lien and levy. 
8.2 
A notice of administrative lien and levy may be opposed in whole or in part, for 
the reasons detailed in this Rule 8.2, and under the procedures detailed in Rule 
8.3 below. 
8.2.1 An exemption shall be granted for any of the following reasons: 
(A) 
the notice contained a misidentification of the owner of some or all 
of the assets, and these assets are wholly owned by some person 
other than the employer or other Division debtor; 
(B) 
the notice identified assets within a custodial account created 
pursuant to the “Colorado Uniform Transfers to Minors Act”, Article 
50 of Title 11, C.R.S., or a trust account of moneys held in trust for 
a third party; 
(C) 
the notice would apply to assets in an amount of “disposal 
earnings,” as defined in C.R.S. § 13-54-104(1)(a), that would 
exceed the maximum allowable percentage amount of “disposable 
earnings” that can be seized to enforce an order under C.R.S. § 13-
54-104(3) based upon the documentation provided by the employer 
or some other Division debtor; or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
31 
(D) 
the notice identified assets that are exempted by law from 
execution, levy, attachment, garnishment, or other legal process. 
8.2.2 A notice of administrative lien and levy shall be rescinded if: 
(A) 
the Division has failed to follow the procedures in C.R.S. § 8-4-
113(4) or these Rules for issuance of a notice of administrative lien 
and levy; and 
(B) 
the failure either deprived a party of notice or opportunity to be 
heard, or otherwise had a prejudicial effect upon a party. 
8.2.3 An exception may be granted to a Division debtor when the Division 
debtor is a natural person who is terminally ill. For purposes of this rule, 
“natural person” means a human, and does not include any kind of 
corporation, company, limited liability company, partnership, form, 
association, organization, agency, or any other kind of entity. 
8.2.4 An appeal may be granted on the basis that there is proof that the notice 
would apply to assets in a joint account and some or all of those assets 
include up to 100% of a non-debtor account holder’s net contribution of 
the funds on deposit, as governed by C.R.S. § 15-15-211, as of the date 
the person served with the notice was in receipt of the notice. 
8.3 
Within 21 calendar days from the date of the notice of administrative lien and 
levy, a Division debtor, any other person or entity claiming ownership or joint 
ownership of any of the asset(s), or any other person or entity with possession, 
custody or control any of the asset(s) (collectively, “Filer(s)”), may file any 
applicable opposition to the notice of administrative lien and levy for the reasons 
detailed in Rule 8.2 and in accordance with the procedures detailed in this Rule 
8.3 and/or described in orders and instructions provided by the Division and/or 
published by the Division on its website. 
8.3.1 The Filer has the burden, pursuant to any policies or instructions included 
with any notice of administrative lien and levy, of claiming with specificity, 
producing evidence to support, and proving entitlement to, any exceptions 
or exemptions, or in the case of a non-debtor joint account holder, of 
making such showing as to their contribution of an identifiable portion of 
the funds. 
8.3.2 A Division hearing officer shall review the claim and document the 
decision whether to approve or deny the requested relief. The Division 
shall provide an initial decision within seven calendar days of receipt, or 
the next business day thereafter.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
32 
(A) 
An initial grant may be subject to further review by the Division, 
based on information from the Filer or other information obtained by 
the Division. 
(B) 
An initial denial may include permission or a request to submit 
further information, based on which the claim for exception or 
exemption may be re-reviewed by the Division. 
(C) 
An initial denial will be deemed an appealable final administrative 
lien and levy order (1) if the Filer chooses not to provide further 
information within seven calendar days, on the eighth calendar day; 
or (2) if the Division does not issue a new decision within seven 
calendar days of any new information provided by the Filer, on the 
eighth calendar day after the new information is provided. 
8.3.3 Notice of an order on a filing opposing a notice of administrative lien and 
levy. 
(A) 
If the claim is approved, in whole or in part, the decision shall 
indicate the scope of asset(s) released, and the extent to which a 
notice of administrative lien and levy may be re-issued; and the 
Division shall notify, and issue a release of the administrative lien 
and levy to: 
(1) 
the Filer and (to the extent different) the Division debtor and 
any other applicable owner of any of the assets(s); and 
(2) 
any other applicable persons or entity (including but not 
limited to a financial institution) with possession, custody or 
control of the asset(s). 
(B) 
If the claim is denied, the Division: 
(1) 
shall notify the Filer and (to the extent different) the employer 
or other Division debtor and any other applicable owner of 
any of the assets(s); and 
(2) 
may, where appropriate and applicable, notify any person or 
entity (including, but not limited to, a financial institution) with 
possession, custody or control of the asset(s).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
33 
8.3.4 A hearing officer’s appealable, final administrative lien and levy order 
pursuant to Rule 8.3.2 and 8.3.3 constitutes a final agency action pursuant 
to C.R.S. § 24-4-106. The Division shall promptly provide all parties with a 
copy of the hearing officer’s decision via U.S. postal mail, electronic 
means, or personal delivery. The Division shall notify the parties of their 
appeal rights pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-4-111.5(5). 
Rule 9. 
Wage Theft Enforcement Fund 
9.1 
When the Division, pursuant to Title 8, Articles 4, 6, or 12 of the Colorado 
Revised Statutes, or a hearing officer, pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-4-111.5, 
determines that an employer owes wages, compensation, or other monetary 
relief to an employee, if the employer fails to pay an employee the determined 
amount of wages, compensation, or other monetary relief owed the employee 
within 120 days after the Division’s determination, or hearing officer’s decision, or 
the expiration of an order from the Division, the hearing officer, or a court staying 
or postponing the employer’s payment obligation, whichever is later, the Division 
may disburse payment for the amount of wages, compensation, or other 
monetary relief determined to be owed the employee from the wage theft 
enforcement fund (the “fund”) to the employee. 
(A) 
Any disbursement from the fund shall be subject to the Division’s 
prioritization and the available resources in the fund. 
(B) 
Pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-4-113(3)(a), (c)(II), and 5(a), the Division 
may disburse amounts from the fund to make payments to 
employees for part or all of the unpaid amount of wages, 
compensation, or other monetary relief, which include statutorily 
mandated penalties, determined to be owed to an employee. 
(C) 
The Division may, based both on its own discretion and its 
consideration of the criteria identified in Rule 9.3, make a 
disbursement from the fund to an employee to pay wages, 
compensation, or other monetary relief owed to the employee 
without receiving an employee’s request for such disbursement.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
34 
9.2 
After 120 days following the Division determination or hearing officer decision 
that an employer owes wages, compensation, or other monetary relief to an 
employee, or the expiration of an order from the Division, a hearing officer, or a 
court staying or postponing the employer’s payment obligation, whichever is 
later, if the employer has still failed to pay the determined wages, compensation, 
or other monetary relief owed the employee, the employee may submit a written 
request seeking payment from the fund pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-4-113(5) (“fund 
request”). 
9.2.1 An employee who submits a fund request to the Division must comply with 
orders and instructions posted or otherwise provided by the Division: 
(A) 
as to the method and timeframe to submit a fund request; and 
(B) 
requiring information on any relevant matters, including but not 
limited to the determination or decision awarding relief, any 
collections efforts by or for the employee, and any up to date 
personal information from the employee. 
9.2.2 The Division will inform the employee in writing (e.g., letter or electronic 
communication) as to its decision on the fund request. If the Division 
determines that it will not grant a fund request, it may, in its discretion, 
inform the employee that it will retain the request on file for future 
consideration, without need for a further submission by the employee. 
9.2.3 If, pursuant to an employee’s fund request, the Division determines that it 
will disburse from the fund any amounts related to the unpaid wages, 
compensation, or other monetary relief described in the employee’s fund 
request (“disbursement amount”), the Division: 
(A) 
shall notify the employee in writing (e.g., letter or electronic 
communication) of the payment to the employee (“fund payment”); 
(B) 
may inform the employee that such fund payment may be 
conditioned on confirmation of the employee’s current contact 
information and/or preferred method of payment; 
(C) 
may require the employee to sign an acknowledgement of the 
following conditions prior to issuing any payment to the employee 
— 
(1) 
once the employee has deposited or cashed the fund 
payment, they may not recover payment in the disbursement 
amount from the employer;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
35 
(2) 
the Division replaces the employee as the creditor of the 
employer for the disbursement amount; 
(3) 
the Division shall credit any payment it obtains from the 
employer toward the disbursement amount to the fund; and 
(4) 
if the employee does not deposit or cash the fund payment 
within three months of transmission, the Division may cancel 
the fund payment. 
(D) 
shall, upon Division confirmation of both reliable payment 
transmission information and compliance with all requirements, 
transmit payment to the employee. 
9.2.4 Nothing in Rule 9.2 shall be construed to reduce or otherwise alter the 
amount of an employer’s or other Division debtor’s unpaid liabilities for 
wages, compensation, or other monetary relief owed to an employee 
based on a fund payment. 
9.2.5 Pursuant to C.R.S. § 8-4-113(5)(a), because the Division’s authority to 
disburse payments from the fund is a discretionary use of Division funds, 
an employee cannot appeal any Division determination concerning a fund 
request. 
9.3 
The Division shall review, evaluate, and resolve an employee’s fund request 
based on the following criteria, to the extent that any or all are appropriate and 
relevant to a particular request: 
(A) 
enforcement priorities of the Division; 
(B) 
available resources in the fund; 
(C) 
length of time that the unpaid liabilities for wage law violations have 
been outstanding; 
(D) 
the employee's degree of need for payment from the fund; 
(E) 
the employer’s prospects of paying their debt, including any risk of 
asset depletion; 
(F) 
the employer’s degree of compliance or non-compliance in relation 
to either the employee, other employees, or the Division; 
(G) 
the extent of any past, current, or impending collection efforts by 
the employee or the Division; and 
(H) 
any other considerations relevant to the merits of the fund request.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-7 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
36 
______________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 12/30/2014. 
Entire rule eff. 09/01/2017. 
Rules 1.2, 2.12, 2.15, 3.2.3, 4.7, 4.8 emer. rules eff. 08/20/2019. 
Rules 1.2, 2.12, 2.15, 3.2.3, 4.7, 4.8 eff. 12/15/2019. 
Rules 2.6-2.17 emer. rules eff. 03/16/2020. 
Rules 2.6-2.17, 6.3-6.10 eff. 07/15/2020. 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2021. Rules 2.11, 3.5.1(C) emer. rules eff. 01/01/2021. 
Entire rule eff. 04/14/2021. 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2022. 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2023. 
Entire rule eff. 04/01/2024. 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2025. 
Entire rule eff. 02/01/2026.
