---
id: "7_CCR_1103-1"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "7 CCR 1103-1"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12406&fileName=7%20CCR%201103-1&type=pdf"
---

#### 7_CCR_1103-1. 7 CCR 1103-1

1 
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR AND EMPLOYMENT 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
COLORADO OVERTIME AND MINIMUM PAY STANDARDS ORDER (COMPS 
ORDER) #40 
7 CCR 1103-1 
[Editor's Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
Adopted December 8, 2025; effective February 1, 2026. 
Rule 1. 
Authority and Definitions. 
1.1 
Authority, application, and relation to prior orders. Colorado Overtime and 
Minimum Pay Standards Order (COMPS Order) #40 replaces COMPS Order #39 
(2024) and prior orders, except that the provisions of prior orders still govern as 
to events occurring while they were in effect. The COMPS Order is issued under 
the authority of, and as enforcement of, Colorado Revised Statutes (C.R.S.) Title 
8, Articles 1, 4, 6, 12, 13.3, and 13.5, and is intended to be consistent with the 
requirements of the State Administrative Procedure Act, C.R.S. § 24-4-101, et 
seq. Unless otherwise noted, in these Rules: all statutes cited apply the most 
recent versions of the Colorado Revised Statutes; all rules cited apply the most 
recent versions adopted as of the adoption of these Rules. See Appendix A for 
citations. Where these Rules have provisions different from or contrary to any 
referenced material, the provisions of these Rules govern, so long as they are 
consistent with Colorado statutory and constitutional provisions. Earlier versions 
of such laws and rules may apply to events that occurred in prior years. The 
effective date of COMPS Order #40 is February 1, 2026. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
2 
1.2 
Incorporation by reference. The COMPS Order incorporates by reference only 
the following rules stated in Subpart G of Part 541 within Title 29 of the Code of 
Federal Regulations: 29 C.F.R. §§ 541.600(d), except for references to salary 
amounts; 541.601(b), except for references to salary amounts; and 541.602 – 
541.604. These rules are available to the public in electronic form at 
https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-29/part-541/subpart-G, as adopted by the 
United States Department of Labor’s Wage and Hour Division, located at 200 
Constitution Ave NW, Washington, DC 20210. All incorporated rules refer to the 
date and edition in effect as of the effective date of this COMPS Order, February 
1, 2026, and exclude later amendments to or editions of the rules incorporated by 
reference. The Publication And Yearly Calculation of Adjusted Labor 
Compensation Order (PAY CALC Order), 7 CCR 1103-14, states the 
periodically-adjusted dollar amounts of the minimum wages and minimum pay 
and income levels for exemptions required in the COMPS Order. All sources 
cited or incorporated by reference are available for public inspection at the 
Colorado Department of Labor and Employment, Division of Labor Standards & 
Statistics, 707 17th Street, Denver, CO 80202. Copies may be obtained from the 
Division of Labor Standards & Statistics at a reasonable charge. They can be 
accessed electronically from the website of the Colorado Secretary of State. 
Pursuant to C.R.S. § 24-4-103(12.5)(b), the agency shall provide certified copies 
of them at cost upon request or shall provide the requestor with information on 
how to obtain a certified copy of the material incorporated by reference from the 
agency originally issuing them. All Division Rules are available to the public at 
www.coloradolaborlaw.gov. 
1.3 
“Director” means the Director of the Division of Labor Standards and Statistics. 
1.4 
“Division” means the Division of Labor Standards and Statistics in the Colorado 
Department of Labor and Employment. 
1.5 
“Employee,” as used in the COMPS Order and the PAY CALC Order, has the 
following definitions. 
(A) 
Under the Colorado Wage Act (CWA), as defined by C.R.S. § 8-4-101(5): 
“Employee” means any person, including a migratory laborer, performing 
labor or services for the benefit of an employer. For the purpose of the 
COMPS Order, relevant factors in determining whether a person is an 
employee include the degree of control the employer may or does 
exercise over the person and the degree to which the person performs 
work that is the primary work of the employer; except that an individual 
primarily free from control and direction in the performance of the service, 
both under their contract for the performance of service and in fact, and 
who is customarily engaged in an independent trade, occupation, 
profession, or business related to the service performed is not an 
“employee.”

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
3 
(B) 
Under the Healthy Families and Workplaces Act (HFWA), as defined by 
C.R.S. § 8-13.3-402(4): “Employee” has the meaning set forth in section 
8-4-101(5) but does not include an “employee” as defined in 45 U.S.C. sec 
351(d) who is subject to the federal “Railroad Unemployment Insurance 
Act”, 45 U.S.C. sec. 351 et seq. 
(C) 
Under the Agricultural Labor Rights and Responsibilities Act, Colorado 
Senate Bill 21-87, as defined by C.R.S. § 8-6-101.5(3): “agricultural 
employee” or “agricultural worker” has the “same meaning as under 
C.R.S. § 8-13.5-201(3)” (“A worker engaged in any service or activity 
included in section 203(f) of the federal ‘Fair Labor Standards Act of 
1938’,...as amended...or section 3121(g) of the federal ‘Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986’, as amended”). 
1.6 
“Employer,” as used in the COMPS Order and the PAY CALC Order, has the 
following definitions. 
(A) 
Under the CWA, C.R.S. § 8-4-101(6): “Employer” has the same meaning 
as set forth in the federal “Fair Labor Standards Act,” 29 U.S.C. sec 
203(d), and includes a foreign labor contractor, a migratory field labor 
contractor or crew leader, and each individual who owns or controls at 
least 25 percent of the ownership interests in an employer; except that the 
provisions of the COMPS Order do not apply to a minority owner of an 
employer that demonstrates full delegation of its authority to control day-
to-day operations of the employer; the state or its agencies or entities, 
counties, cities and counties, municipal corporations, quasi-municipal 
corporations, school districts, and irrigation, reservoir, or drainage 
conservation companies or districts organized and existing under the laws 
of Colorado. 
(B) 
Under HFWA, as defined by C.R.S. § 8-13.3-402(5): “Employer” has the 
meaning set forth in section 8-4-101(6); except that the term includes the 
state and its agencies or entities, counties, cities and counties, 
municipalities, school districts, and any political subdivisions of the state 
but does not include the federal government. 
(C) 
Under the Agricultural Labor Rights and Responsibilities Act, Colorado 
Senate Bill 21-87, as defined by C.R.S. § 8-2-206(1)(c): “agricultural 
employer” has the “same meaning provided in C.R.S. § 8-3-104(1)” (“a 
person that is engaged in any service or activity included in section 203(f) 
of the federal ‘Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938’, … as amended,” or 
engaged in “agricultural labor, as defined in section 3121 of the federal 
‘Internal Revenue Code of 1986’,” that either (1) contracts with any person 
who recruits, solicits, hires, employs, furnishes, or transports agricultural 
employees, or (2) regularly engages the services of one or more 
agricultural employees).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
4 
1.7 
“Minor,” for purposes of minimum wage provisions specific to minors, means a 
person under 18 years of age. “Emancipated minor” means any individual less 
than eighteen years of age who meets the definition provided by C.R.S. § 8-6-
108.5. 
1.8 
“Regular rate of pay” means the hourly rate actually paid to employees for a 
standard, non-overtime workweek. Employers need not pay employees on an 
hourly basis. If pay is on a piece-rate, salary, commission, or other non-hourly 
basis, any overtime compensation is based on an hourly regular rate calculated 
from the employee’s pay. 
1.8.1 Pay included in regular rate. The regular rate includes all compensation 
paid to an employee, including set hourly rates, shift differentials, 
minimum wage tip credits, non-discretionary bonuses, production 
bonuses, and commissions used for calculating hourly overtime rates for 
non-exempt employees. Business expenses, bona fide gifts, discretionary 
bonuses, tips, employer investment contributions, vacation pay, holiday 
pay, sick leave, jury duty, or other pay for non-work hours may be 
excluded from regular rates. 
1.8.2 Regular rate for employees paid a weekly salary or other non-hourly basis. 
(A) 
A weekly salary or other non-hourly pay may be paid as straight 
time pay for all work hours, and the regular rate each workweek will 
be the total paid divided by hours worked, if the parties have a clear 
mutual understanding that the salary is: 
(1) 
compensation (apart from any overtime premium) for all 
hours each workweek; 
(2) 
at least the applicable minimum wage for all hours in 
workweeks with the greatest hours; 
(3) 
supplemented by extra pay for all overtime hours (in addition 
to the salary that covers the regular rate) of an extra ½ of the 
regular rate; and 
(4) 
paid for whatever hours the employee works in a workweek. 
(B) 
Where the requirements of (1)-(4) are not carried out, there is not 
the required “clear mutual understanding” that the non-hourly pay 
provides the regular rate for all hours with extra pay added for 
overtime hours. Absent such an understanding, the hourly regular 
rate is the applicable weekly pay divided by 40, the number of 
hours presumed to be in a workweek for an employee paid no 
overtime premium.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
5 
1.8.3 The regular rate for an employee working two or more non-exempt jobs at 
different hourly pay rates for the same employer within a specific 
workweek shall be calculated as follows: 
(A) 
Rate based on a weighted average: The employee’s regular rate for 
the particular workweek is determined by adding together all the 
wages earned performing each job, then dividing that amount by 
the total number of hours worked in all jobs, consistent with the 
federal Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) and resulting in a 
weighted average rate of pay, or 
(B) 
Rate based on the job actually performed during overtime hours: 
The employee’s regular rate is the regular rate of hourly pay for the 
job being performed during the actual overtime hours. 
If there is no written agreement between the employee and the employer 
as to the method of calculating the regular rate of pay in advance of 
performing the work, the employee’s regular rate shall be calculated using 
the “weighted average” method described above in 1.8.3(A). 
1.9 
“Time worked” means time during which an employee is performing labor or 
services for the benefit of an employer, including all time they are suffered or 
permitted to work, whether or not required to do so. 
1.9.1 Requiring or permitting employees to be on the employer’s premises, on 
duty, or at a prescribed workplace (but not merely permitting an employee 
completely relieved from duty to arrive or remain on-premises) — 
including but not limited to putting on or removing required work clothes or 
gear (but not a uniform worn outside work as well), receiving or sharing 
work-related information, security or safety screening, remaining at the 
place of employment awaiting a decision on job assignment or when to 
begin work, performing clean-up or other duties “off the clock,” clocking or 
checking in or out, or waiting for any of the preceding — shall be 
considered time worked that must be compensated; except that whether 
an employer must compensate an activity (or combination of multiple 
activities consecutively) of less than one minute depends on the balance 
of the following factors, as shown by the employer: (A) the difficulty of 
recording the time, or alternatively of reasonably estimating the time; (B) 
the aggregate amount of compensable time, for each employee as well as 
for all employees combined; and (C) whether the activity was performed 
on a regular basis.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
6 
1.9.2 “Travel time” means time spent on travel for the benefit of an employer, 
excluding normal home to work travel, and shall be considered time 
worked. At the start or end of the workday, travel to or from a work station, 
entirely within the employer's premises and/or with employer-provided 
transportation, shall not be considered time worked, except that such 
travel is compensable if it is: 
(A) 
time worked under Rule 1.9 – 1.9.1; 
(B) 
after compensable time starts or before compensable time ends 
under Rule 1.9 – 1.9.1; or 
(C) 
travel in employer-mandated transportation (1) that materially 
prolongs commute time or (2) in which employees are subjected to 
heightened physical risk compared to an ordinary commute. 
1.9.3 “Sleep time” means time an employee may sleep, which is compensable 
as follows. Where an employee’s shift is 24 hours or longer, up to 8 hours 
of sleeping time may be excluded from overtime compensation, if: 
(A) 
an express agreement excluding sleeping time exists; 
(B) 
adequate sleeping facilities for an uninterrupted night’s sleep are 
provided; 
(C) 
at least 5 hours of sleep are possible during the scheduled sleep 
period; and 
(D) 
interruptions to perform duties are considered time worked. 
When an employee’s shift is less than 24 hours, periods when they are 
permitted to sleep are compensable work time, as long as they are on 
duty and must work when required. Only actual sleep time may be 
excluded, up to a maximum of 8 hours per workday. When work-related 
interruptions prevent 5 hours of sleep, the employee shall be 
compensated for the entire workday. 
1.10 “Tipped employee” means any employee who regularly receives more than $1.64 
per hour in tips (averaged over any pay period permitted by C.R.S. § 8-4-103). 
Tips include amounts designated as a tip by credit card customers on their 
charge slips.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
7 
(A) 
Nothing in this rule prevents an employer from requiring employees to 
share or allocate such tips or gratuities on a pre-established basis among 
other tipped employees who perform significant customer-service 
functions in contact with patrons — which includes employees with duties 
typical of the following occupations, whether or not customers tip them 
directly: servers; bussers (i.e., server helpers); counter personnel who 
serve customers; sushi or teppanyaki chefs who are similar to counter 
personnel because they have direct contact and interact with customers, 
and prepare and serve meals to customers (in bar areas or at tables); 
service bartenders; bartender assistants or barbacks who are similar to 
bussers because they learn bartending under the tutelage of a bartender 
they support and from whom they receive their tips while working in the 
bar area and interacting with customers; sommeliers who explain the wine 
list to, bring the selected wine bottle to, and serve wine to customers; and 
bellhops. 
(B) 
Employer-required sharing of tips with management, or with employees 
who do not have such duties, or deduction of credit card processing fees 
from tipped employees, shall nullify allowable tip credits towards the 
minimum wage. 
1.11 “‘Wages’ or ‘compensation’” has the meaning provided by C.R.S. § 8-4-101(14) 
and includes paid sick leave under the Healthy Families and Workplaces Act, 
C.R.S. § 8-13.3-402(8)(b). 
1.12 “Workday” means any consecutive 24-hour period starting with the same hour 
each day and the same hour as the beginning of the workweek. The workday is 
set by the employer and may accommodate flexible shift scheduling. 
1.13 “Workweek” means any consecutive set period of 168 hours (7 days) starting 
with the same calendar day and hour each week. 
Rule 2. 
Coverage and Exemptions. 
2.1 
Scope of coverage. The COMPS Order regulates wages, hours, working 
conditions, and procedures for all employers and employees for work performed 
within Colorado, with the exceptions and exemptions contained within Rule 2. 
2.2 
Exemption from all except Rules 1, 2, and 8. The following are exempt from the 
COMPS Order except Rules 1 (Authority and Definitions), 2 (Coverage and 
Exemptions), and 8 (Administration and Interpretation).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
8 
2.2.1 Administrative employees. This exemption covers a salaried employee, 
paid at least the applicable salary in Rule 2.5 as specified for the 
applicable year in the PAY CALC Order, who directly serves an executive, 
and regularly performs duties important to the decision-making process of 
that executive. The executive and employee who serves the executive 
must regularly exercise independent judgment and discretion in matters of 
significance, with a primary duty that is non-manual in nature and directly 
related to management policies or general business operations. 
2.2.2 Executives or supervisors. This exemption covers a salaried employee, 
paid at least the applicable salary in Rule 2.5 as specified for the 
applicable year in the PAY CALC Order, who supervises the work of at 
least two full-time employees and has the authority to hire and fire, or to 
effectively recommend such action. The employee must spend a minimum 
of 50% of the workweek in duties directly related to supervision. 
2.2.3 Professional employees. This exemption covers a salaried employee, paid 
at least the applicable salary in Rule 2.5 as specified for the applicable 
year in the PAY CALC Order, employed in a field of endeavor whose 
primary duty is work that requires (A) the consistent exercise of discretion 
and judgment, as distinguished from routine work that is mental, manual, 
mechanical or physical, and (B) either (1) knowledge of an advanced type 
in a field of science or learning customarily acquired by a prolonged 
course of specialized intellectual instruction and study, or (2) invention, 
imagination, originality or talent in a recognized field of artistic or creative 
endeavor (as opposed to routine mental, manual, mechanical or physical 
work, or work that primarily depends on intelligence, diligence and 
accuracy). The professional employee must be employed in the field in 
which they were trained. 
2.2.4 Outside salespersons. This exemption covers an employee working 
primarily away from the employer’s place of business or enterprise for the 
purpose of making sales or obtaining orders or contracts for any 
commodities, articles, goods, real estate, wares, merchandise, or 
services. The employee must spend a minimum of 80% of the workweek 
in activities directly related to their own outside sales. 
2.2.5 Owners or proprietors. This exemption covers a full-time employee 
actively engaged in management of the employer who either: 
(A) 
owns at least a bona fide 20% equity interest in the employer; or 
(B) 
for a non-profit employer, is the highest-ranked and highest-paid 
employee, and is paid at least the salary threshold in Rule 2.5 as 
specified for the applicable year in the PAY CALC Order.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
9 
2.2.6 Taxi cab drivers employed by a taxi service provider licensed by a state or 
local government. 
2.2.7 In-residence workers. This exemption covers the below-listed in-residence 
employees. 
(A) 
Casual babysitters employed in private residences directly by 
households, or directly by family members of the individual(s) 
receiving care from the babysitter. 
(B) 
Property managers residing on-premises at the property they 
manage. 
(C) 
Student residence workers working in premises where they reside 
for sororities, fraternities, college clubs, or dormitories. 
(D) 
Laundry workers who (a) are inmates, patients, or residents of 
charitable institutions, and (b) perform laundry services, (c) in 
institutions where they reside. 
(E) 
Field staff of seasonal camps or seasonal outdoor education 
programs who primarily provide supervision or education of minors, 
or education of adults; are required to reside on-premises or in the 
field; are provided adequate lodging and all meals free of charge 
and without deduction from wages; and as of January 1, 2021, are 
paid the amount required by subpart (1) below (with no minimum 
pay required before January 1, 2021). 
(1) 
This exemption requires that field staff be paid either (a) the 
applicable Colorado minimum wage for all hours worked, or 
(b) a salary (i) equivalent to at least 42 hours per week at the 
Colorado minimum wage (with the 15% hourly wage 
reduction that Rule 3.3 permits for unemancipated minors), 
(ii) with hourly wage reduced one-sixth (⅙) for non-profit 
employers with annual total gross revenue of $25 million or 
less, and (iii) reduced $200 per week as a credit for facilities 
provided (lodging, meals, and other facilities), as specified 
for the applicable year in the PAY CALC Order. 
(2)  
“Seasonal” in this Rule means a camp or program that either 
(a) does not operate for more than seven months in a year, 
or (b) during the preceding calendar year had average 
receipts for any six months of not more than one-third (⅓) of 
its average receipts for the other six months.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
10 
2.2.8 Bona fide volunteers and work-study students. This exemption covers 
those who need not be compensated under the federal Fair Labor 
Standards Act (29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq.) as either: (A) enrolled students 
receiving credit for an unpaid work-study program or internship; or (B) 
bona fide volunteers for non-profit organizations. 
2.2.9 Elected officials and their staff. This exemption covers individuals elected 
to public office and members of their staff. 
2.2.10  
Employees in highly technical computer-related occupations. This 
exemption covers an employee paid a salary, or hourly compensation, in 
accord with Rule 2.5, and as specified for the applicable year in the PAY 
CALC Order, who: 
(A) 
is a skilled worker employed as a computer systems analyst, 
computer programmer, software engineer, or other similarly highly 
technical computer employee; 
(B) 
who has knowledge of an advanced type, customarily acquired by a 
prolonged course of specialized formal or informal study; and 
(C) 
spends a minimum of 50% of the workweek in any combination of 
the following duties — 
(1) 
the application of systems analysis techniques and 
procedures, including consulting with users, to determine 
hardware, software, or system functional specifications, 
(2) 
the design, development, documentation, analysis, creation, 
testing, or modification of computer systems or programs, 
including prototypes, based on and related to user or system 
design specifications, or 
(3) 
the design, documentation, testing, creation, or modification 
of computer programs related to machine operating systems. 
2.2.11 Highly compensated employees. This exemption covers an employee 
who: 
(A) 
is paid annual wages of at least — 
(1) 
weekly, the weekly salary for the executive, professional, or 
administrative exemption, as specified for the applicable 
year in the PAY CALC Order, and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
11 
(2) 
annually, two and one-quarter times the rounded annual 
salary for the executive, professional, or administrative 
exemption, as specified for the applicable year in the PAY 
CALC Order; 
(B) 
customarily and regularly performs any one or more of the exempt 
duties or responsibilities of an executive, administrative or 
professional employee (as described in Rules 2.2.1-2.2.3); and 
(C) 
whose primary duty is office or non-manual work — for example, 
non-management production-line workers and non-management 
employees in maintenance, construction and similar occupations 
such as carpenters, electricians, mechanics, plumbers, iron 
workers, craftsmen, operating engineers, longshoremen, 
construction workers, laborers and other employees who perform 
work involving repetitive operations with their hands, physical skill 
and energy are not exempt under this section no matter how highly 
paid they might be. 
2.2.12 National Western Stock Show. This exemption covers temporary 
employees employed directly by the Western Stock Show Association for 
the annual National Western Stock Show. 
2.3 
Agriculture. 
2.3.1 Minimum Wages. All minimum wage laws and rules apply to all employees 
of all agricultural employers, except as otherwise provided for “range 
workers” in Rule 2.4.9. 
2.3.2 Overtime and Maximum Hours Protections. 
(A) 
Agricultural employees of agricultural employers are exempt from 
both the 40-hour weekly and the 12-hour daily overtime pay 
requirements in Rule 4.1.1, provided that such employees receive 
the following. 
(1) 
Weekly overtime pay, at one and one-half times their regular 
rate of pay, after 60 hours worked per workweek from 
November 1, 2022, through December 31, 2023, and 
thereafter as follows, and as listed in the summary table 
below:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
12 
(a) 
at a highly seasonal agricultural employer (defined in 
Rule 2.3.2(C)), (i) after 56 hours worked per 
workweek during any up to 22-workweek period, or 
any two or three periods of at least four workweeks 
each totaling up to 22 weeks, that the employer 
designates as its peak labor period(s), and (ii) 
otherwise after 48 hours worked per week; and 
(b) 
at an agricultural employer that is not highly seasonal, 
(i) after 54 hours worked per workweek in 2024, and 
(ii) after 48 hours worked per workweek as of January 
1, 2025; except 
(c) 
at a small agricultural employer (defined in Rule 
2.3.2(B) below), whether or not highly seasonal, after 
56 hours worked per workweek in 2024, then 
whichever of (a) or (b) applies as of January 1, 2025. 
 
Summary Table: Weekly Overtime Requirements for Agricultural 
Employers 
Time 
Period 
(a) Highly Seasonal 
Employers 
(b) Non-Highly 
Seasonal Employers 
(c) Small Employers 
(seasonal or not) 
Until 
11/1/22 
 
[ No requirements ] 
 
11/1/22- 
12/31/2
3 
60 hours 
2024 
56 hours for up to 
22 peak weeks; 
48 hours otherwise 
54 hours 
56 hours 
2025 - 
48 hours 
[No separate rule for 
small 
employers; apply (a) or 
(b)] 
(2) 
Beginning November 1, 2022:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
13 
(a) 
in lieu of 12-hour daily overtime pay under Rule 4.1.1, 
30 minutes for the third Rule 5.2 paid rest period 
(rather than 10 minutes or any other duration under 
30 minutes otherwise applicable to that rest period) — 
except that if the employer had no reason to believe 
an employee would exceed 12 hours until the twelfth 
hour worked, then the additional break time may be 
provided on the employee’s next workday; and 
(b) 
for a workday with more than 15 hours of work, or for 
more than 15 consecutive hours of work (as provided 
by Rule 4.1.5) without regard to the start and end time 
of the workday, an additional lump-sum payment 
equal to one hour of the Colorado minimum wage, as 
specified for the applicable year in the PAY CALC 
Order. 
(B) 
“Small agricultural employer” means an agricultural employer that: 
(1) 
employed fewer than four employees on average over the 
three prior calendar years (or as many complete prior 
calendar years as they have been in operation); and 
(2) 
had average adjusted gross income, over the three prior 
complete taxable years preceding 2024 (the year that small 
agricultural employers have a different overtime standard), of 
no more than $1,000,000. Employers in operation fewer than 
three complete taxable years shall use as many complete 
taxable years as they have been in operation; employers not 
yet in operation for any complete taxable years shall be 
considered below the threshold. 
(C) 
“Highly seasonal agricultural employer” means an agricultural 
employer that, in any up to 22-workweek period (or any two or three 
periods , of at least four workweeks each, totaling up to 22 weeks) 
in the prior calendar year, had at least twice as many employees as 
the rest of the year, and provides the following to those it would pay 
weekly overtime after 56 rather than 48 hours in peak weeks. 
(1) 
An initial disclosure, at least annually, 
(a) 
weekly overtime pay will be after 56 rather than 48 
hours for up to 22 peak weeks, 
(b) 
whether those peak weeks will be divided into one, 
two, or three periods (of four weeks or more), and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
14 
(c) 
a good-faith estimate of the months in which the peak 
weeks will occur. 
The initial disclosure must be provided to employees at least 
30 days in advance of the first expected peak week (or upon 
hiring for those start work fewer than 30 days in advance), 
except for those employed under, and in compliance with 
federal requirements for, temporary work visas, no later than 
the date of the worker’s visa application, contemporaneous 
with required federal pre-employment written disclosures to 
visa workers ordinarily due by the date of the worker’s visa 
application. 
(2) 
Written notice, at least annually, of which weeks will be the 
peak weeks, no later than the seventh day before the first 
peak week (or upon hiring for those starting work after the 
seventh day). The employer may change which are the peak 
weeks after that notice if: 
(a) 
it provides at least one week’s written notice of any 
week being added or removed as a peak week; 
(b) 
the initial disclosure was the employer’s good-faith, 
reasonable expectation of which weeks would be the 
peak weeks; and 
(c) 
the changes are based on circumstances not 
foreseeable at the time of the initial disclosure (for 
example, a late frost). 
(3) 
All required notices and disclosures related to peak weeks in 
English and any language that is the first language spoken 
by at least five percent of the employer’s workforce at any 
point during the year. 
(D) 
An agricultural employee is exempt from all overtime pay 
requirements in the COMPS Order if (by blood, adoption, or 
marriage) they are the child, sibling, spouse, parent, aunt, uncle, 
nephew, niece, first cousin, grandchild, or grandparent of a family 
owner of an employer. For this exemption, a “family owner” is an 
individual with an ownership interest in an agricultural employer that 
is either (a) a majority interest or (b) an at least 10% interest that 
combines with those of other family members of that owner (of any 
type of relative listed in the prior sentence) to form a majority 
interest. If a family owner is also an “employee” of the agricultural 
employer, they also are exempt from all overtime pay requirements 
in the COMPS Order.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
15 
(E) 
How many employees an agricultural employer has, for purposes of 
the above definitions of “small agricultural employer” in (B), and 
“highly seasonal agricultural employer” in (C), shall be determined 
as follows. 
(1) 
Employees shall be counted at the worksite for which the 
definition is being assessed, and shall count proportionally 
as follows, based on their average hours worked in all weeks 
in the preceding year with at least one hour worked: 
(a) 
35 hours per week or more, 1.0; 
(b) 
between 15 and 35 hours per week, 0.5; and 
(c) 
under 15 hours per week, 0. 
(2) 
Employers need not rely on prior staffing levels to qualify for 
the “small agricultural” or “highly seasonal” employee 
thresholds if they (a) have been in operation for less than 
one calendar year, or (b) did not qualify based on their prior 
staffing levels, but have a good-faith, objectively reasonable 
belief that they will qualify for the present year. If their belief 
that they will qualify for the threshold proves incorrect, they 
must pay affected employees back pay for any additional 
overtime owed, plus 5%, by 30 days from the date the 
employer has notice that it will not qualify for the threshold 
for the year, or (if they lacked notice until the end of the year) 
by 30 days from the end of that calendar year. 
(F) 
The Rule 2.3.2 exemption does not apply if an employer draws at 
least 50% of its annual dollar volume of business from sales to the 
consuming public (rather than for resale) of any services, 
commodities, articles, goods, wares, or merchandise; prior Orders 
for decades have covered any such employer, in any industry. E.g., 
Order #35, Rule 2(A) (covering any employer “that sells or offers for 
sale, any service, commodity, article, good, … wares, or 
merchandise to the consuming public” and draws “50% or more of 
its annual dollar volume … from such sales,” rather than from sales 
to other businesses “for resale”). 
2.3.3 Meal and Rest Periods. 
(A) 
In addition to the meal and rest periods required by Rule 5, an 
agricultural employer shall provide agricultural employees engaged 
in hand-weeding and hand-thinning an additional, five-minute rest 
period, which, insofar as is practicable, must be in the middle of 
each work period.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
16 
(B) 
The requirement of meal and rest periods in Rule 2.3.3 and Rule 5 
does not apply to a truck driver whose sole and principal duty is to 
haul livestock or to a combine or harvester operator while 
harvesting. 
2.4 
Exemptions from Overtime Requirements of the COMPS Order. The following 
employees are exempt from Rule 4 (Overtime) unless otherwise specified. 
2.4.1 Certain Salespersons and Mechanics. Salespersons, parts-persons, and 
mechanics employed by automobile, truck, or farm implement (retail) 
dealers; and salespersons employed by trailer, aircraft, and boat (retail) 
dealers are exempt from Rule 4 (Overtime). 
2.4.2 Commission Sales. Sales employees of retail or service industries paid on 
a commission basis, provided that at least 50% of their total earnings in 
the pay period is derived from commission sales, and their regular rate of 
pay is at least one and one-half times the minimum wage, are exempt 
from Rule 4 (Overtime). This exemption is applicable for only employees 
of retail or service employers who receive over 75% of their annual dollar 
volume from retail or service sales. 
2.4.3 Ski Industry. Employees of the ski industry performing duties directly 
related to ski area operations for downhill skiing or snowboarding, and 
those employees engaged in providing food and beverage services at on-
mountain locations, are exempt from (within Rule 4) the 40-hour overtime 
requirement but not the requirement of overtime pay for over 12 hours that 
are consecutive or are within a workday. This partial overtime exemption 
does not apply to ski area employees performing duties related to lodging. 
2.4.4 Medical Transportation. Employees of the medical transportation industry 
who work 24-hour shifts are exempt from the Rule 4.1.1(B)-(C) daily (12-
hour) overtime rules if they receive the required Rule 4.1.1(A) weekly (40-
hour) overtime pay. 
2.4.5 Eight and Eighty Rule. A hospital or nursing home may seek an 
agreement with individual employees to pay overtime pursuant to the 
provisions of the federal Fair Labor Standards Act “8 and 80 rule” whereby 
employees are paid time and one-half their regular rate of pay for any 
work performed in excess of 80 hours in a 14 consecutive day period and 
for any work in excess of 8 hours per day. 
2.4.6 Drivers, and Driver’s Helpers, Subject to the Federal Motor Carrier Act 
(MCA). Drivers and their driver’s helpers are exempt from Rule 4 
(overtime) and Rule 5 (rest and meal periods) while and to the extent that 
they are:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
17 
(A) 
subject to the federal MCA and exempt from overtime requirements 
of the FLSA pursuant to 29 U.S.C. § 213(b)(1) and regulations 
promulgated thereunder; 
(B) 
working on MCA-covered non-passenger vehicles, or on MCA-
covered passenger vehicles qualifying as commercial motor 
vehicles requiring a commercial driver’s license (CDL) — but not on 
vehicles that transport workers to and from manual work jobs (e.g., 
landscaping or lawn care, construction or roofing, cleaning or 
janitorial, or other manual labor) and do not require a CDL; and 
(C) 
paid compensation equivalent to at least 50 hours at the Colorado 
minimum wage with overtime, as specified for the applicable year in 
the PAY CALC Order, regardless of whether the pay is hourly, 
salaried, piece rate, or on another basis. 
2.4.7 Direct Support and Care. The Rule 4.1.1(B)-(C) daily (12-hour) overtime 
rule does not apply to companions designated as direct support 
professionals/direct care workers who are scheduled for, and work, shifts 
of at least 24 hours providing residential or respite services and who are 
employed by service providers and agencies that receive at least 75% of 
their total revenue from Medicaid or other governmental sources, and who 
provide services within Medicaid home- and community-based service 
waivers. 
2.4.8 Decision-Making Managers at Livestock Employers. The Rule 2.3.2 and 
Rule 4 overtime rules do not apply to decision-making managers at 
livestock employers, defined as follows. 
(A) 
A “decision-making manager” (for purposes of this exemption) is an 
employee primarily engaged in livestock work: 
(1) 
who is paid at least the applicable salary in Rule 2.5, as 
specified for the applicable year in the PAY CALC Order; 
(2) 
who is not employed in the position on a seasonal or 
temporary basis (i.e., not expected to remain in the position 
for less than 12 months); and 
(3) 
whose primary duties require routine exercise of 
independent judgment and discretion in matters of 
significance, and who either 
(a) 
supervises two or more full-time employees, or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
18 
(b) 
reports directly to an owner (majority or minority), or 
to an executive-level employee who reports directly to 
such an owner, who routinely exercises independent 
judgment and discretion in matters of significance, 
whether in manual or non-manual labor (e.g., the 
owner’s second-in-command, or the head of the site 
where the exempt employee works). 
(B) 
A “livestock employer” (for purposes of this exemption) is an 
agricultural employer with significant responsibilities for “livestock” 
(as defined under the FLSA) care and health — a dairy, cattle 
ranch, feedlot, or similar employer — that does not qualify as a 
“highly seasonal” employer under Rule 2.3.2. 
2.4.9 Range workers. The Rule 2.3.2 and Rule 4 overtime rules do not apply to 
range workers who are paid at least the minimum range worker salary (as 
specified in the PAY CALC Order for the applicable year) during periods 
when they are “principally engaged in the range production of livestock . . . 
on the open range” (as defined by C.R.S. § 8-6-101.5(1)(b)), and are 
provided without cost or deduction any housing, food, transport, and 
equipment required for H-2A visa range workers by federal regulations. 
2.4.10 Voluntary shift trades by employees of interstate air carriers. Hours 
worked by an employee of a carrier by air engaged in interstate or foreign 
commerce shall not count toward the number of hours worked for the 
purposes of Rule 4 when such hours are voluntarily worked by the 
employee pursuant to a shift-trading practice under which the employee 
has the opportunity in the same or in other workweeks to reduce hours 
worked by voluntarily offering a shift for trade or reassignment. 
2.5 
Salary Thresholds for Certain Exemptions.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
19 
2.5.1 For COMPS Order exemptions requiring a salary, the “Salary 
Requirement” rules of the federal Fair Labor Standards Act in 29 C.F.R. 
Part 541 Subpart G, as identified as incorporated by reference and made 
available to the public for review in Rule 1.2, apply, except that under the 
COMPS Order, the salary must be at least the level specified for the 
applicable year in the PAY CALC Order and sufficient for the minimum 
wage for all hours in a workweek (with the exception of certain 
professionals listed in Rule 2.5.2). Except as provided in Rule 2.2.11, the 
weekly salary from July 1, 2020, through December 31, 2020, was $684 
($35,568 per year); $778.85 for 2021 ($40,500 per year); $865.38 for 2022 
($45,000 per year); $961.54 for 2023 ($50,000 per year); is $1,057.69 for 
2024 ($55,000 per year); and after 2024 shall be indexed every January 1 
by the same Consumer Price Index (CPI) as the Colorado minimum wage, 
as stated in the PAY CALC Order; except that the 2020 salary did not 
apply to the following two categories of employers, for whom the above 
salary schedule applied only as of January 1, 2021 — (A) non-profit 
employers with annual total gross revenue of under $50 million, and (B) 
for-profit employers with annual total gross revenue of under $1 million. 
Annual equivalents are based on 2080 hours over 52 weeks of 40 hours, 
as under the federal Fair Labor Standards Act, and are rounded to the 
nearest dollar. 
For any employer that was not subject to the $684 per week salary under this 
Rule 2.5.1 for all or part of 2020, the required salary was the equivalent of the 
Colorado $12.00 minimum wage, less any applicable lawful credits, for all hours 
worked in a workweek; this salary requirement of minimum wage for all hours 
work applied under Minimum Wage Order #35 (2019) and prior Minimum Wage 
Orders. 
2.5.2 Exemption for Certain Professionals Exempt from the Salary Requirement 
under Federal Wage Law. The Rule 2.5.1 salaries do not apply to the 
following professionals who are exempt from the requirement of a salary 
under federal wage law. 
(A) 
Doctors, lawyers, and teachers who qualify as exempt Rule 2.2.3 
professional employees need not receive any particular salary or 
hourly pay to be exempt. 
(B) 
Employees in highly technical computer-related occupations, as 
defined by Rule 2.2.10, must receive at least the lesser of (1) the 
applicable salary in Rule 2.5.1, or (2) hourly pay that was at least 
$28.38 in 2021, adjusted annually by CPI thereafter, as specified 
for the applicable year in the PAY CALC Order.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
20 
Rule 3. 
Minimum Wages. 
3.1 
Statewide Minimum Wage. Under the minimum wage requirements of Article 
XVIII, Section 15, of the Colorado Constitution, all employees (with the exception 
detailed in Rule 3.3), whether employed on an hourly, piecework, commission, 
time, task, or other basis, shall be paid not less than the Colorado minimum 
wage, as specified for the applicable year in the PAY CALC Order, less any 
applicable lawful credits or exceptions noted, for all hours worked, if the 
employee is covered by either: 
(A) 
Rule 2 (Coverage and Exemptions) of the COMPS Order; or 
(B) 
the minimum wage provisions of the federal Fair Labor Standards Act (29 
U.S.C. § 201 et seq.). 
3.2 
Minimum and Overtime Wage Requirements of Other Applicable Jurisdictions. In 
addition to these requirements, federal, local, or other state laws or regulations 
may apply minimum, base, overtime, or other wage requirements to some or all 
Colorado employers and employees. If an employee is covered by multiple wage 
requirements, the requirement providing a higher wage, or otherwise setting a 
higher standard, shall apply. The Division accepts state law complaints by 
employees who claim entitlement to  state, federal, or local minimum, base, or 
overtime wages under the C.R.S. § 8-4-101(14) definition that the “unpaid 
wages” recoverable in a state-law claim include “[a]ll amounts for labor or service 
performed by employees,” as long as such amounts are “earned, vested, and 
determinable, at which time such amount shall be payable to the employee 
pursuant to this article.” 
3.3 
Reduced Minimum for Minors. The minimum wage may be reduced by 15% for 
non-emancipated minors, as specified for the applicable year in the PAY CALC 
Order, and subject to the limitations in 7 CCR 1103-20, the Colorado Youth 
Employment Standards Rules (YES Rules), Rule 11. 
Rule 4. 
Overtime. 
4.1 
Overtime Wages. 
4.1.1 Employees shall be paid time and one-half of the regular rate of pay for 
any work in excess of any of the following, except as provided in 
exemptions or variances in Rule 2: 
(A) 
40 hours per workweek; 
(B) 
12 hours per workday; or 
(C) 
consecutive hours without regard to the start and end time of the 
workday.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
21 
4.1.2 Whichever of the three calculations in Rule 4.1.1 results in the greater 
payment of wages shall apply in any particular situation. 
4.1.3 Hours worked in two or more workweeks shall not be averaged for 
computing overtime. 
4.1.4 Performance of work in two or more positions, at different pay rates, for 
the same employer, shall be computed at the overtime rate based on the 
regular rate of pay as described in Rule 1.8.3. 
4.1.5 In calculating when 12 consecutive hours are worked for purposes of the 
Rule 4.1.1 requirement of overtime after 12 hours, meal periods may be 
subtracted, but only if the meal periods comply with the Rule 5.1 
requirements for meal periods. 
4.2 
Effect of Daily Overtime on Workday and Workweek. The requirement to pay 
overtime for work in excess of 12 consecutive hours will not alter the employee's 
established workday or workweek, as previously defined. 
4.3 
Overtime for Minors. Nothing in Rule 4 modifies the provisions on work hours for 
minors, as defined by C.R.S. § 8-12-103, contained in C.R.S. § 8-12-105. 
Rule 5. 
Meal and Rest Periods. 
5.1 
Meal Periods. Employees shall be entitled to an uninterrupted and duty-free meal 
period of at least a 30-minute duration when the shift exceeds 5 consecutive 
hours. Such meal periods, to the extent practical, shall be at least one hour after 
the start, and one hour before the end, of the shift. Employees must be 
completely relieved of all duties and permitted to pursue personal activities for a 
period to qualify as non-work, uncompensated time. When the nature of the 
business activity or other circumstances make an uninterrupted meal period 
impractical, the employee shall be permitted to consume an on-duty meal while 
performing duties. Employees shall be permitted to fully consume a meal of 
choice on the job and be fully compensated for the on-duty meal period without 
any loss of time or compensation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
22 
5.2 
Rest Periods. Every employer shall authorize and permit a compensated 10-
minute rest period for each 4 hours of work, or major fractions thereof, for all 
employees, as follows, except as provided in exemptions or variances in Rule 2: 
Work Hours 
Rest Periods 
Required 
2 or fewer 
0 
Over 2, and up to 6 
1 
Over 6, and up to 10 
2 
Over 10, and up to 
14 
3 
Over 14, and up to 
18 
4 
Over 18, and up to 
22 
5 
Over 22 
6 
5.2.1 Rest periods shall be 10 minutes unless, 
(A) 
on a given workday, or in a writing covering up to a one-year period 
that is signed by both parties, the employee and the employer 
agree, voluntarily and without coercion, to have two 5-minute 
breaks, as long as 5 minutes is sufficient, in the work setting, to 
allow the employee to go back and forth to a bathroom or other 
location where a bona fide break would be taken; or 
(B) 
if the below conditions are met, rest periods need not be 10 
minutes every 4 hours for any employees (i) governed by a 
collective bargaining agreement at any employer, or (ii) during time 
they are providing Medicaid-funded services for a service provider 
or agency receiving at least 75% of its annual total gross revenue 
from Medicaid or other governmental funds for providing such 
services within Medicaid home- and community-based services 
waivers, and the services provided require continuous supervision 
of the service recipient, or providing a rest period would interfere 
with ensuring the service recipient’s health, safety, and welfare. 
Employees in category (i) or (ii) must receive: 
(1) 
rest periods that average, over the workday, at least 10 
minutes per 4 hours worked; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
23 
(2) 
at least 5 minutes of rest in every 4 hours worked. 
Such an agreement does not change an employee’s right to pay for rest 
periods under Rule 5.2.4. Additionally, when (B)(ii) above applies: When 
direct support professionals or direct care workers serving individuals with 
disabilities spend time in community outings with those individuals with 
disabilities — as part of day programs, supported living services, or one-
to-one respite or personal care — time in such outings does not require 
rest breaks or pay for rest breaks. 
5.2.2 Rest periods, to the extent practical, shall be in the middle of each 4-hour 
work period. It is not necessary that the employee leave the premises for a 
rest period. 
5.2.3 Required rest periods are time worked for the purposes of calculating 
minimum wage and overtime obligations. 
5.2.4 When an employee is not authorized and permitted a required 10-minute 
rest period, their shift is effectively extended by 10 minutes without 
compensation. Because a rest period requires 10 minutes of pay without 
work being performed, work during a rest period is additional work for 
which additional pay is not provided. Therefore, a failure by an employer 
to authorize and permit a 10-minute compensated rest period is a failure 
to pay 10 minutes of wages at the employee’s agreed-upon or legally 
required (whichever is higher) rate of pay. This Rule 5.2.4 applies equally 
to any required rest period time not provided (e.g., rest periods that are 
incomplete, or for non-hourly-paid employees, or under any other rule or 
statute providing rest periods of different durations). 
Rule 6. 
Deductions, Credits, and Charges. 
6.1 
Tips or Gratuities. It shall be unlawful for an employer to assert a claim to, right of 
ownership in, or control over tips or gratuities intended for employees in violation 
of the Colorado Wage Act, including C.R.S. § 8-4-103(6). 
6.2 
Credits Toward Minimum Wages. The only allowable credits an employer may 
take toward the minimum wage are those in Rules 6.2.1 - 6.2.3 below. 
6.2.1 Lodging Credit. A lodging credit for housing furnished by the employer and 
used by the employee may be considered part of the minimum wage if it 
is: 
(A) 
no greater than the smaller of (1) the reasonable and actual cost to 
the employer of providing the housing, (2) the fair market value of 
the housing, or (3) $25 per week for a room (in a shared residence, 
dormitory, or hotel) or $100 per week for a private residence (an 
apartment or a house);

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
24 
(B) 
accepted voluntarily and without coercion, and primarily for the 
benefit or convenience of the employee, rather than of the 
employer; and 
(C) 
recorded in a written agreement (electronic form is acceptable) that 
states the fact and amount of the credit (but need not be a lease). 
6.2.2 Meal Credit. A meal credit, equal to the reasonable cost or fair market 
value of meals provided to the employee, may be used as part of the 
minimum hourly wage. No profits to the employer may be included in the 
reasonable cost or fair market value of such meals furnished. Employee 
acceptance of a meal must be voluntary and uncoerced. 
6.2.3 Tip Credit. Employers must always pay at least the statewide tipped 
minimum wage (as a direct or cash wage), but may be able to apply a 
greater tip credit based on the laws of the local government, as explained 
in (B).  
(A) 
Statewide Tip Credit. A statewide tip credit no greater than $3.02 
per hour may be used to offset direct wages for employers of tipped 
employees. An employer must pay a direct wage of at least the 
amount specified for the applicable year in the PAY CALC Order if 
it claims a tip credit against its minimum hourly wage obligation; if 
an employee’s tips combined with the direct wage of at least the 
amount specified for the applicable year in the PAY CALC Order 
Rule 1.2.1(B) do not equal the applicable minimum hourly wage, 
the employer must make up the difference in direct wages. 
(B) 
Local Tip Credit. In local governments that have enacted a higher 
local minimum wage, a tip credit of at least $3.02 per hour may be 
used to offset direct wages for employers of tipped employees. 
Such local governments may adopt tip credits over $3.02 per hour, 
so long as the direct wage is at least the amount specified for the 
applicable year in the PAY CALC Order Rule 1.2.1(B). If an 
employee’s tips combined with the direct wage do not equal the 
local minimum hourly wage, the employer must make up the 
difference in direct wages. 
6.3 
Uniforms. 
6.3.1 Where wearing a particular uniform or special apparel is a condition of 
employment, the employer shall pay the cost of purchases, maintenance, 
and cleaning of the uniforms or special apparel, with the following 
exceptions:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
25 
(A) 
if the uniform furnished by the employer is plain and washable, and 
does not need or require special care such as ironing, dry cleaning, 
pressing, etc., the employer need not maintain or pay for cleaning; 
and 
(B) 
clothing that is ordinary, plain, and washable that is prescribed as a 
uniform need not be furnished by the employer unless a special 
color, make, pattern, logo, or material is required. 
6.3.2 The cost of ordinary wear and tear of a uniform or special apparel shall not 
be deducted from an employee's wages. 
Rule 7. 
Employer Record-Keeping and Posting Requirements. 
7.1 
Employee Records. Every employer shall keep at the place of employment, or at 
the employer's principal place of business in Colorado, a true and accurate 
record for each employee which contains the following information: 
(A) 
name, address, occupation, and date of hire of the employee; 
(B) 
date of birth, if the employee is under 18 years of age; 
(C) 
daily record of all hours worked; 
(D) 
record of credits claimed and of tips; 
(E) 
regular rates of pay, gross wages earned, withholdings made, and net 
amounts paid each pay period; 
(F) 
all vacation pay hours accrued, used, and available for use during the 
current benefit year, if any; and 
(G) 
all HFWA or sick leave hours accrued, used, and available for use during 
the current benefit year (to the extent these hours are tracked separately 
from vacation hours). 
“Vacation pay” has the same meaning as the definition set forth in Wage 
Protection Rule 2.17, 7 CCR 1103-7. 
7.2 
Issuance of Earnings Statement and Information.  
7.2.1 An itemized earnings statement of the information in Rule 7.1(D)-(E) and 
the total hours worked in the pay period, with the employee’s and the 
employer’s names, shall be provided to each employee each pay period.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
26 
7.2.2 Nothing in Rule 7.2.1 shall prevent an employer from providing to an 
employee information related to Rule 7.1(F). Upon an employee’s request, 
an employer must provide, in writing or electronically, documents sufficient 
to show, or a dated statement containing, the information in Rule 7.1(F). 
Employees may make such requests no more than once per month, or 
more frequently as provided by an employer policy. Employers may 
choose a reasonable system for fulfilling such requests, including but not 
limited to listing such information on each pay stub, using an electronic 
system where employees can access their own information, or providing 
the necessary information in a letter or electronic communication. 
7.2.3 Nothing in Rule 7.2.1 shall impede an employee’s right to request 
information related to Rule 7.1(G) or concerning paid sick leave, as 
authorized by Wage Protection Rule 3.5.7, 7 CCR 1103-7. 
7.3 
Maintenance of Earnings Statement Information. An employer shall retain 
records reflecting the information contained in an employee’s itemized earnings 
statement as described in this rule for at least 3 years after the wages or 
compensation were due, and for the duration of any pending wage claim 
pertaining to the employee. Each employer shall provide each employee access 
to the information in Rules 7.1(A) and (C) in any of the following forms it chooses: 
(A) 
provide the information with the regular earnings statements; 
(B) 
provide each employee with access to a functioning electronic portal that 
shows the information – but this method is permissible only if the employer 
knows an email address of the employee; or 
(C) 
provide each employee the information for the entire calendar year by 
January 31st the following year and, in addition, provide the information to 
an employee upon a request that an employee may make once per year.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
27 
7.4 
Posting and Distribution Requirements. 
7.4.1 Posting. Every employer subject to the COMPS Order must display a 
COMPS Order poster for the current year, with applicable dollar figures as 
stated in the PAY CALC Order for that year, published by the Division in 
an area frequented by employees where it may be easily read during the 
workday. If the work site or other conditions make a physical posting 
impractical (including private residences employing only one worker, and 
certain entirely outdoor work sites lacking an indoor area), the employer 
shall provide a copy of the COMPS Order or poster to each employee 
within their first month of employment, and shall make it available to 
employees upon request. Employers shall be deemed noncompliant if 
they attempt to minimize the effect of posters or notices required by 
statute or these Rules, such as by communicating positions contrary to, or 
discouraging the exercise of rights covered in, the required poster or 
notice. An employer that does not comply with the above requirements of 
this paragraph shall be ineligible for any employee-specific credits, 
deductions, or exemptions in the COMPS Order, but shall remain eligible 
for employer- or industry-wide exemptions, such as exempting an entire 
employer or industry from any overtime or meal/rest period requirements 
in Rules 4 – 5. 
7.4.2 Distribution. Every employer publishing or distributing to employees any 
handbook, manual, or written or posted policies shall include a copy of the 
COMPS Order, or a COMPS Order poster published by the Division, with 
any such handbook, manual, or policies. Every employer that requires 
employees to sign any handbook, manual, or policy shall, at the same 
time or promptly thereafter, include a copy of the COMPS Order, or a 
COMPS Order poster published by the Division, and have the employee 
sign an acknowledgement of being provided the COMPS Order or the 
COMPS Order poster. 
7.4.3 Translation. Employers with any employees with limited English language 
ability shall: 
(A) 
use a Spanish-language version of the COMPS Order and poster 
published by the Division, if the employee(s) in question speak 
Spanish; or 
(B) 
contact the Division to request that the Division, if possible, provide 
a version of the COMPS Order and poster in another language that 
any employee(s) need. 
Rule 8 
Administration and Interpretation. 
8.1 
Recovery of Wages.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
28 
(A) 
Availability of court action or Division administrative complaint. An 
employee receiving less than the full wages or other compensation owed 
is entitled to recover in a civil action the unpaid balance of the full amount 
owed, together with reasonable attorney fees and court costs, 
notwithstanding any agreement to work for a lesser wage, pursuant to 
C.R.S. §§ 8-4-121, 8-6-118. Alternatively, an employee may elect to 
pursue a complaint through the Division’s administrative procedure as 
described in the Colorado Wage Act, C.R.S. § 8-4-101, et seq. 
(B) 
No minimum claim size. There is no minimum size of a wage claim, and 
thus no claim too minimal (“de minimis”) for recovery (subject to Rule 1.9.1 
as to certain activities of less than one minute), because Article 4 requires 
paying “[a]ll wages or compensation” (C.R.S. § 8-4-103(1)(a)), and 
authorizes civil actions “to recover any amount of wages or compensation” 
(C.R.S. § 8-4-110(1)) and Division complaints “for any violation” (C.R.S. § 
8-4-111(1)(a)). 
8.2 
Complaints. Any person may register with the Division a written complaint that 
alleges a violation of the COMPS Order within 2 years of the alleged violation(s), 
except that actions brought for a willful violation shall be commenced within 3 
years. 
8.3 
Investigations. The Director or a designated agent shall investigate and take all 
proceedings necessary to enforce the payment of the minimum wage and other 
provisions of the COMPS Order, pursuant to these Rules and C.R.S. Title 8, 
Articles 1, 4, 6, and 13.3. Violations may be subject to the administrative 
procedure as described in the Colorado Wage Act, C.R.S. § 8-4-101, et seq. 
8.4 
Violations. It is theft under the Criminal Code (C.R.S. § 18-4-401) if an employer 
or agent: 
(A) 
willfully refuses to pay wages or compensation, or falsely denies the 
amount of a wage claim, or the validity thereof, or that the same is due, 
with intent to secure for themself, or another person any discount upon 
such indebtedness or any underpayment of such indebtedness or with 
intent to annoy, harass, oppress, hinder, coerce, delay, or defraud the 
person to whom such indebtedness is due (C.R.S. § 8-4-114); or 
(B) 
intentionally pays or causes to be paid to any such employee a wage less 
than the minimum (C.R.S. § 8-6-116). 
8.5 
Reprisals. Employers shall not threaten, coerce, or discriminate against any 
person for the purpose of reprisal, interference, or obstruction as to any actual or 
anticipated investigation, hearing, complaint, or other process or proceeding 
relating to a wage claim, right, or rule. Violators may be subject to penalties 
under C.R.S. §§ 8-1-116, 8-1-140, 8-4-120, and/or 8-6-115.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
29 
8.6 
Division and Dual Jurisdiction. The Division shall have jurisdiction over all 
questions arising with respect to the administration and interpretation of the 
COMPS Order. Whenever employers are subjected to Colorado law as well as 
federal and/or local law, the law providing greater protection or setting the higher 
standard shall apply. For information on federal law, contact the U.S. Department 
of Labor, Wage and Hour Division. 
8.7 
Construction. 
(A) 
Liberal construction of the COMPS Order, narrow construction of 
exceptions/ exemptions. Under the C.R.S. § 8-6-102 “Construction” 
provision (“Whenever this article or any part thereof is interpreted by any 
court, it shall be liberally construed by such court”), applicable to rules on 
“wages which are inadequate to supply the necessary cost of living” (§ 8-
6-104), on “conditions of labor detrimental to [worker] health or morals” (§ 
8-6-104), on “conditions of labor and hours of employment not detrimental 
to health or morals for workers” (§ 8-6-106), on “what are unreasonably 
long hours” (§ 8-6-106), on what requirements are “necessary to carry out 
the provisions of this article” (§ 8-6-108.5), on minimum and overtime 
wages (§§ 8-6-109, -111, -116, -117), and on who qualifies as an 
“agricultural employer” (§ 8-6-120 (incorporating §§ 8-13.5-201(1); 8-3-
104(1)(b))): The provisions of the COMPS Order shall be liberally 
construed, with exceptions and exemptions accordingly narrowly 
construed. 
(B) 
Subpart included in cross-references. Where any Division rule references 
another rule, the reference shall be deemed to include all subparts of the 
referenced rule. 
(C) 
Minimum Wage Order references. References to the Colorado “Minimum 
Wage Order” shall be deemed to reference the COMPS Order, as the 
successor to the Colorado Minimum Wage Order. 
8.8 
Separability. The COMPS Order is intended to remain in effect to the maximum 
extent possible. If any part (including any section, sentence, clause, phrase, 
word, or number) is held invalid, (A) the remainder of the COMPS Order remains 
valid, and (B) if the provision is held not wholly invalid, but merely in need of 
narrowing, the provision should be retained in narrowed form.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
30 
8.9 
Basis for Calculation. Calculations in the PAY CALC and COMPS Orders are 
based on Section 15 of Article XVIII of the Colorado Constitution (Section 15) 
(“Colorado’s minimum wage is . . . adjusted annually for cost of living increases, 
as measured by the . . . Consumer Price Index used for Colorado”); C.R.S. 
Article 8, Title 6; and the COMPS Order. All inflation-adjusted values applicable 
to the COMPS and PAY CALC Orders are based on the CPI used for Colorado, 
the Denver-Aurora-Lakewood CPI published by the federal Bureau of Labor 
Statistics. To effectuate the above provisions that employees must be paid not 
less than the prior year’s minimum wage adjusted for inflation, Division rules and 
practice must round up, to the nearest cent, any fractional cents yielded by the 
inflation adjustment. Other than in the annual minimum wage calculation, Division 
rules and practice round fractional cents of at least 0.5 up, and of under 0.5 
down.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
31 
Appendix A. Statutory Authority. 
• 
C.R.S. §§ 8-1-101 (“‘General order’ means an order of the director applying 
generally throughout the state to all persons, employments, or places of 
employment under the jurisdiction of the division”); 
• 
8-1-103 (“[P]owers, duties, and functions of the director … , includ[e] … 
promulgation of rules, rates, regulations, and standards, and the rendering of 
findings, orders, and adjudications”); 
• 
8-1-107 (“[T]he director has the duty and the power to … [a]dopt reasonable and 
proper rules and regulations relative to the exercise of his powers and proper 
rules and regulations to govern the proceedings of the division and to regulate 
the manner of investigations and hearings.”) 
• 
8-1-108 (“[G]eneral orders shall be effective … after they are adopted by the 
director and posted”; “All orders of the division shall be … in force and prima 
facie reasonable and lawful until … found otherwise.”); 
• 
8-1-111 (“The director is vested with the power and jurisdiction to have such 
supervision of every employment and place of employment … [to] determine the 
conditions under which the employees labor … , to enforce all provisions of law 
relating thereto … to administer all provisions of this article with respect to the 
relations between employer and employee and to do all other acts and things 
convenient and necessary to accomplish the purposes of this article.”); 
• 
8-1-130 (“The director has full power to hear and determine all questions within 
his[, her, or their] jurisdiction, and his[, her, or their] findings, award, and order 
issued thereon shall be final agency action.”); 
• 
8-4-111 (“It is the duty of the director … to enforce generally the provisions of this 
article.”); 
• 
8-6-101.5 (“[T]he minimum wage requirements of section 15 of article xviii of the 
state constitution, and any minimum wage laws enacted pursuant to this article 6, 
apply to agricultural employers employing agricultural workers. ...The Colorado 
minimum wage that an agricultural employer must pay to an agricultural worker 
who is principally engaged in the range production of livestock … on the open 
range is: (i) beginning January 1, 2022, ... five hundred fifteen dollars per week; 
and (ii) beginning January 1, 2023, the minimum wage required in the prior 
calendar year adjusted annually ... . The director may set a higher minimum 
wage than is required … consistent with the director’s authority and duties[.]”); 
• 
8-6-101.5 (“An agricultural worker is entitled to an uninterrupted and duty-free 
meal period of at least a thirty-minute duration when the agricultural worker's shift 
exceeds five consecutive hours. ...An agricultural worker is entitled to an 
uninterrupted and duty-free rest period of at least ten minutes within each four

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
32 
hours of work.”); 8-13.5-203(3) (“An agricultural employer shall provide 
agricultural workers engaged in hand weeding and hand thinning an additional 
five minute rest period, which, insofar as is practicable, must be in the middle of 
each work period. The authorized rest period must be based on the total hours 
worked daily at the rate of fifteen minutes net rest time per four hours worked, or 
a major fraction thereof. The agricultural employer shall count the authorized rest 
period as hours worked and not deduct the rest period from the agricultural 
worker’s wages.”); 
• 
8-6-102 (“Whenever this article or any part thereof is interpreted by any court, it 
shall be liberally construed.”); 
• 
8-6-104 (“It is unlawful to employ workers in any occupation … for wages which 
are inadequate to supply the necessary cost of living and to maintain the health 
of the workers .... It is unlawful to employ workers in any occupation … under 
conditions of labor detrimental to their health or morals.”); 
• 
8-6-105 (“It is the duty of the director to inquire into the wages paid to employees 
and into the conditions of labor … in any occupation … if the director has reason 
to believe … conditions of labor are detrimental to the health or morals of said 
employees or that the wages paid to a substantial number of employees are 
inadequate to supply the necessary cost of living and to maintain such 
employees in health.”); 
• 
8-6-106 (“The director shall determine the minimum wages sufficient for living 
wages … ; standards of conditions of labor and hours ... not detrimental to health 
or morals for workers; and what are unreasonably long hours.”); 
• 
8-6-108 (“[F]or the purpose of investigating any of the matters [s/]he[/they] is 
authorized to investigate by this article … [t]he director has power to make 
reasonable and proper rules and procedure and to enforce said rules and 
procedure.”); 
• 
8-6-109 (“If after investigation the director is of the opinion that the conditions of 
employment surrounding said employees are detrimental to the health or morals 
or that a substantial number of workers in any occupation are receiving wages … 
inadequate to supply the necessary costs of living and to maintain the workers in 
health, the director shall proceed to establish minimum wage rates.”); 
• 
8-6-111 (“Overtime, at a rate of one and one-half times the regular rate of pay, 
may be permitted by the director under conditions and rules and for increased 
minimum wages which the director, after investigation, determines and 
prescribes by order and which shall apply equally to all employers in such 
industry or occupation.”); 
• 
8-6-116 (“The minimum wages fixed by the director, as provided in this article, 
shall be the minimum wages paid to the employees, and the payment … of a 
wage less than the minimum … is unlawful”);

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
33 
• 
8-6-117 (“In every prosecution … of this article, the minimum wage established 
by the director shall be prima facie presumed to be reasonable and lawful and 
the wage required to be paid. The findings of fact made by the director acting 
within prescribed powers, in the absence of fraud, shall be conclusive.”); 
• 
8-6-120 (“The director shall promulgate rules providing meaningful overtime and 
maximum hours protections to agricultural employees. … In promulgating such 
rules, the director shall consider the inequity and racist origins of the exclusion of 
agricultural employees from overtime and maximum hours protections available 
to other employees, the fundamental right of all employees to overtime and 
maximum hours standards that protect the health and welfare of employees, and 
the unique difficulties agricultural employees have obtaining workplace conditions 
equal to those provided to other employees.”); 
• 
8-12-115 (“The director shall enforce … this article” and “shall promulgate rules 
and regulations more specifically defining the occupations and types of 
equipment permitted or prohibited by this article.”);  
• 
8-13.3-403 (“The division shall promulgate rules regarding compensation and 
accrual of paid sick leave for employees employed and compensated on a fee-
for-service basis.”); 
• 
8-13.3-407 (“Determinations made by the division under this section [as to paid 
sick leave] are appealable pursuant to section 8-4-111.5 and rules promulgated 
by the department regarding appeals and strategic enforcement.”); 
• 
8-13.3-408 (“Each employer shall notify its employees that they are entitled to 
paid sick leave, pursuant to rules promulgated by the division.”); 
• 
8-13.3-410 (“The director may coordinate implementation and enforcement of 
this part and adopt rules as necessary for such purposes.”); 
• 
8-13.5-202(1)(c)(I) (“To ensure that agricultural workers have meaningful access 
to services, the director of the division may adopt rules regarding additional times 
during which an employer may not interfere with an agricultural worker’s 
reasonable access to key service providers at any location other than the 
employer’s property, including periods during which the agricultural worker is 
performing compensable work, especially during periods when the agricultural 
worker is required to work in excess of forty hours per week and may have 
difficulty accessing such services outside of work hours.”); 
• 
8-13.5-203 (“The director of the division shall promulgate rules that require 
agricultural employers to protect agricultural workers from heat-related stress 
illnesses and injuries when the outside temperatures reach eighty degrees or 
higher, with discretion to adjust requirements based on environmental factors, 
exposure time, acclimatization, and metabolic demands of the job as set forth in 
the federal Department of Health and Human Services Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
34 
2016 Revised Publication: Criteria for a Recommended Standard, Occupational 
Exposure to Heat and Hot Environments.”); and 
• 
the Administrative Procedure Act, C.R.S. § 24-4-103.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-1 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
35 
______________________________________________________________________ 
Editor's Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2008. 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2009. 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2010. 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2011. 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2012. 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2013. 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2014. 
Entire rule eff. 12/30/2014. 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2016. 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2017. 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2018. 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2019. 
Entire rule emer. rule eff. 01/01/2020. 
Entire rule eff. 03/16/2020. 
Rules 1.6, 2.2.7 (G), 5.2.1, 7.2, 7.3 emer. rules eff. 03/16/2020. 
Rules 1.6, 2.2.7 (G), 5.2.1, 7.2, 7.3 eff. 07/15/2020. 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2021. 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2022. 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2024. 
Entire rule eff. 02/01/2026.
