---
id: "7_CCR_1103-15"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "7 CCR 1103-15"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12403&fileName=7%20CCR%201103-15&type=pdf"
---

#### 7_CCR_1103-15. 7 CCR 1103-15

1 
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR AND EMPLOYMENT 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
AGRICULTURAL LABOR CONDITIONS RULES 
7 CCR 1103-15 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
Adopted December 8, 2025; effective February 1, 2026. 
Rule 1. 
Statement of Purpose, Authority, and Construction 
1.1 
The general purpose of these Agricultural Labor Conditions Rules is to exercise 
the authority of this Division to enforce and implement the Agricultural Labor 
Rights and Responsibilities Act, Colorado Senate Bill 21-087 (ALRRA, enacted 
June 25, 2021), including but not limited to Part 2, “Labor Conditions for 
Agricultural Workers,” of Article 13.5 of Colorado Revised Statutes (C.R.S.) Title 
8, and other existing Title 8 provisions and authority, including but not limited to 
C.R.S §§ 8-1-103(3), -107(2), -111; 8-2-206; 8 3 104; 8-6-101.5, -105, -106, -
108, -117; and 8-13.5-201 to -204. The Rules shall be interpreted in accordance
with the ALRRA. The Rules are intended to be consistent with the State
Administrative Procedure Act, C.R.S. § 24-4-101, et seq.
1.2 
Incorporation by Reference. These Rules incorporate by reference only those 
specific Colorado rules, as identified below, from the Colorado Whistleblower, 
Anti-Retaliation, Non-Interference, and Notice-Giving (WARNING) Rules, 7 CCR 
1103-11, as adopted by the Colorado Department of Labor and Employment, 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics. These incorporated Division rules are 
available for public inspection at the Colorado Department of Labor and 
Employment, Division of Labor Standards & Statistics, located at 707 17th Street, 
Denver, CO 80202. Copies may be obtained from the Division of Labor 
Standards & Statistics at a reasonable charge. These incorporated Division rules 
can be accessed electronically from the website of the Colorado Secretary of 
State, and are available to the public at www.coloradolaborlaw.gov. Pursuant to 
C.R.S. § 24 4 103(12.5)(b), the agency shall provide certified copies of the rules
incorporated by reference at cost upon request. All such incorporated rules refer
to the date and edition of those rules in effect as of the effective date of these
Agricultural Labor Conditions Rules, February 1, 2026, and exclude later
amendments to or editions of these rules incorporated by reference.
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-15 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
2 
1.3 
Application. Where these Rules have provisions different from or contrary to any 
referenced material, the provisions of these Rules govern so long as consistent 
with Colorado statutory and constitutional provisions. Where these Rules 
reference another rule, the reference shall be deemed to include all subparts of 
the referenced rule. Unless otherwise noted, in these Rules: all statutes cited 
apply the most recent versions of the Colorado Revised Statutes; all rules cited 
apply the most recent versions adopted as of the adoption of these Rules. Earlier 
versions of such laws and rules may apply to events that occurred in prior years. 
1.4 
Separability. These Rules are intended to remain in effect to the maximum extent 
possible. If any part (including any section, sentence, clause, phrase, word, or 
number) is held invalid, (A) the remainder of the Rules remain valid, and (B) if 
the provision is held not wholly invalid, but merely in need of narrowing, the 
provision should be retained in narrowed form. 
1.5 
Other Requirements for Agricultural Labor. In addition to these rules on certain 
labor conditions for which the ALRRA requires rules from this Division: (A) the 
ALRRA put into effect other agricultural labor requirements that do not require 
any rules; (B) other ALRRA requirements are covered in other rules, such as the 
Colorado Overtime and Minimum Pay Standards (COMPS) Order, 7 CCR 1103-1 
(wage and hour matters); Labor Peace Act Rules and Industrial Relations Act 
Rules, 7 CCR 1101-1 (labor management relations); and Colorado 
Whistleblower, Anti-Retaliation, Non-Interference, and Notice Giving (Colorado 
WARNING) Rules, 7 CCR 1103-11 (retaliation, interference, and notice); and (C) 
other rules cover other labor requirements not specific to, but applicable to, 
agriculture. 
Rule 2. 
Definitions Applicable to These Rules 
2.1 
“Division” is the Division of Labor Standards and Statistics in the Colorado 
Department of Labor and Employment. 
2.2 
“Employee” is as defined by C.R.S. § 8-6-101.5(3): “agricultural employee” or 
“agricultural worker” has the “same meaning as under C.R.S. § 8-13.5-201(3)” 
(“A worker engaged in any service or activity included in section 203(f) of the 
federal ‘Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938’, . . . as amended . . . or section 
3121(g) of the federal ‘Internal Revenue Code of 1986’, as amended”). As to 
rights and remedies under C.R.S. § 8-2-206, “agricultural worker” means “a 
person employed by an agricultural employer.” Unless otherwise noted, 
references to “employees” in these rules mean “agricultural employees.”

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-15 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
3 
2.3 
“Employer” is as defined by C.R.S. § 8-2-206(1)(c): “agricultural employer” has 
the “same meaning provided in C.R.S. § 8-3-104(1)” (“a person that is engaged 
in any service or activity included in section 203(f) of the federal ‘Fair Labor 
Standards Act of 1938’, . . . as amended,” or engaged in “agricultural labor, as 
defined in section 3121 of the federal ‘Internal Revenue Code of 1986’,” that 
either (1) contracts with any person who recruits, solicits, hires, employees, 
furnishes, or transports agricultural employees, or (2) regularly engages the 
services of one or more agricultural employees). Unless otherwise noted, 
references to “employers” in these rules mean “agricultural employers.” 
2.4 
“Locality” includes a county, city, town, village, other municipality, unincorporated 
local area, or other government unit or subdivision smaller than the state of 
Colorado. 
2.5 
“Meal period” and “rest period” are defined by and apply as stated in COMPS 
Order Rules 5.1-5.2 unless otherwise provided in these Rules, and are 
synonymous with “meal break” or “rest break,” respectively. 
2.6 
“Potable water” means drinkable water safe for human consumption, and in 
compliance with Colorado Primary Drinking Water Regulations, 5 CCR 1002-11, 
if provided from a supply system subject to those rules. 
2.7 
“Provide” (or in any other form such as “provides,” “provided,” or “providing”) 
means the item, service, or permission must be given at no cost, with no 
additional conditions, and with no deductions from compensation, except that 
references to “employer-provided” housing are not limited to housing provided at 
no cost. 
2.8 
“Range worker” is as defined by C.R.S. § 8-6-101.5(1)(b) and, as used to define 
agricultural employees to whom different rights and responsibilities within these 
rules apply, means an agricultural employee who is paid at least the minimum 
salary for range workers (as specified in the Publication And Yearly Calculation 
of Adjusted Labor Compensation (PAY CALC) Order, 7 CCR 1103-14, for the 
applicable year) during periods when they are “principally engaged in the range 
production of livestock . . . on the open range” (as defined by C.R.S. § 8-6-
101.5(b)), and who is provided without cost or deduction any housing, food, 
transport, and equipment required for H-2A visa range workers by federal 
regulations. 
2.9 
Temperatures in or applicable to these rules are all on the Fahrenheit 
temperature scale.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-15 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
4 
2.10 “Workday” means any consecutive 24-hour period starting with the same hour 
each day and the same hour as the beginning of the workweek. The workday is 
set by the employer and may accommodate flexible shift scheduling. 
2.11 “Workweek” means any consecutive set period of 168 hours (7 days) starting 
with the same calendar day and hour each week. 
Rule 3. 
Heat Illness and Injury Protection 
3.1 
Application of heat illness and injury protection rules. This Rule 3 applies on days 
when the temperature at a worksite for agricultural work is, or is forecast to be, at 
least 80 degrees, except: 
(A) 
Rule 3.4 applies additional requirements only under the “increased risk 
conditions” defined in that Rule; 
(B) 
Rule 3 does not apply to employees working no more than fifteen minutes 
in any sixty-minute period in conditions that otherwise trigger Rule 3 
requirements; 
(C) 
Rule 3 does not apply to a workday if conditions are forecasted to trigger 
Rule 3 requirements, but employees work only at times when conditions 
are not forecasted to, and do not actually, trigger those requirements — 
for example, if employees finish work by 11:30 a.m. on a day when the 
temperature is not forecasted to, and does not actually, reach 80 degrees 
until 12:00 p.m.; and 
(D) 
Rules 3.5 and 3.6 apply if, at any point in the calendar year, a worksite 
temperature of at least 80 degrees is reasonably expected (as defined in 
Rule 3.1.6), even if particular work occurs, or workdays are, under 80 
degrees, or are exempt under (B) or (C) above. 
3.1.1 Temperature and increased risk conditions shall be assessed on a day-to-
day basis.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-15 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
5 
(A) 
For outdoor worksites of agricultural work, the employer shall rely 
on a forecasted high temperature for the day. For indoor worksites 
of agricultural work, the employer shall measure the worksite 
temperature during the workday, and shall apply the relevant Rule 
3 requirements (1) on any day when the measured temperature 
exceeds a Rule 3 threshold, or (2) regardless of measured 
temperature, on any day when the employer has reason to expect 
the temperature to exceed the relevant Rule 3 threshold. This 
includes when (a) the employer intends to cause the indoor 
temperature to meet the threshold, (b) outdoor weather conditions 
give the employer reason to expect that the indoor temperature will 
meet the threshold, or (c) in one of the last three workdays the 
indoor worksite had a high temperature that met the threshold. 
(B) 
The employer may rely on any forecast, from no earlier than noon 
the prior day, for any locality that includes the worksite (or if no 
such forecast is available, the nearest locality with a forecast), from 
any reliable daily forecast source, such as a professional weather 
service, mass media source, or government entity. 
(C) 
If it is not possible for an employer to determine whether outdoor 
temperatures meet a Rule 3 threshold, or to inform employees 
when a threshold is met (e.g., to inform range workers whose 
location is unknown or who lack reliable reception), then it shall rely 
on the prior year’s monthly average temperature for the same 
month in which employees are currently working (applying Rule 3.1 
standards for choosing a locality and reliable forecast), to comply 
with: 
(1) 
Rule 3 heat illness and injury prevention requirements for all 
days in a month with at least a 76-degree average high 
temperature (i.e., 95% of the 80-degree threshold); and 
(2) 
Rule 3.4 increased risk conditions requirements for all days 
in a month with at least a 90-degree average high 
temperature (i.e., 95% of the 95-degree threshold). 
3.1.2 For outdoor worksites of agricultural work, an employer shall monitor 
conditions throughout the workday for heat protection triggers under this 
Rule 3.1 and 3.4. An employer shall monitor the current temperature by: 
(A) 
Measuring the temperature of the location where employees 
perform work that day as frequently as required by conditions;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-15 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
6 
(B) 
Providing a means for employees to measure the temperature at 
least once per hour, and to report weather conditions triggering 
heat protections; or 
(C) 
Using or permitting employees to use a reliable weather report for 
the exact location where the work is being performed. 
An employer shall accurately measure the temperature of the worksite 
under 3.1.2(A) or (B). Accurate measuring requires the dry bulb 
temperature to be measured in sunlight and as near as possible to the 
location of workers in a location that experiences similar conditions to the 
workers but no more than one half mile away. 
3.1.3 If an employer learns of conditions that do or are expected to trigger Rule 
3 requirements only after a workday starts (e.g., if a temperature 
exceeding a Rule 3 threshold, or any Rule 3.4 increased risk condition, 
appears after not being forecast), then the employer shall comply with 
applicable Rule 3 requirements to the maximum extent, and as soon as, 
possible. 
3.1.4 An employer does not have an obligation to monitor the conditions if it 
assumes the Rule 3.1 temperature threshold and/or Rule 3.4 increased-
risk conditions are met and follows the requirements of these rules. An 
employer may choose to assume Rule 3.1 applies and monitor only for 
increased risk conditions under Rule 3.4. 
3.1.5 If complying with any Rule 3 requirement(s) is not possible or would make 
employees more unsafe, then an employer must (A) comply to the 
maximum extent possible, and (B) implement equivalent protective 
measures, recording in writing their nature and reasons. 
3.1.6 Where a rule is based on whether a certain temperature (e.g., 80 or 95 
degrees) is “reasonably expected” in a current year, that condition is 
satisfied if either: (A) any days had at least that temperature in the prior 
year; or (B) any day in the current year is forecasted to have, or actually 
has, at least that temperature. Prior year temperature data may be from 
any reliable source for a locality that includes the worksite (or, if data for 
the locality is not available, for the nearest locality to the worksite), such 
as a professional weather service, mass media source, or government 
entity, including the National Weather Service (NWS) [as of publication of 
these rules: at www.weather.gov, select “Past Weather,” and a region, to 
reach the “Climate” page; then select “Monthly Summarized Data” and 
“Max Temp” for the relevant location and time period].

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-15 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
7 
3.2 
Drinking Water. Employers shall provide employees with potable water, and the 
opportunity to drink it, as follows: 
(A) 
at least 32 ounces of water per hour per employee, kept 60 degrees or 
cooler, by any means the employer chooses, such as providing (1) a tap 
or fountain supplying water in that temperature range, or (2) a supply of 
water kept within that temperature range as much as possible (e.g., in a 
refrigerator or enclosed cooler in the shade) and, if the temperature would 
rise out of the range, is replenished or re-cooled (e.g., by adding ice); 
(B) 
from a sanitary source, whether a fountain, tap, or individual cup or 
container; 
(C) 
with employees permitted time to drink water and use restrooms during 
shifts as needed, including by providing water where it is available during 
shifts and breaks; and 
(D) 
located as close as practicable to the worksite, no further than 0.25 miles 
from the worksite for employees accessing the water source by foot, and 
not otherwise too far for employees to reasonably access. 
3.2.1 If it is not possible to comply with any portion of Rule 3.2 for a range 
worker or ranch worker during periods when they spend the majority of 
their workday mobile (for example, riding a horse or ATV) and too distant 
from any fixed or mobile source of water compliant with Rule 3, then the 
employer shall comply to the maximum extent possible, including but not 
limited to by: (A) re-supplying potable water to the worker whenever the 
employer re-supplies or otherwise visits a location near the worker; and 
(B) providing equipment or resources to permit the employee to carry 
potable water, and to the extent that it is not possible to carry enough 
potable water, providing equipment or resources to permit the worker to 
obtain potable water from non-potable sources, such as water purification 
containers or other devices that render water potable. 
3.3 
Shade. For employee use during rest, meal, cool-down, and other breaks, 
employers shall provide access to adequate shade located as close as 
practicable to the worksite, which may be artificial or natural, but does not qualify 
if: 
(A) 
any source yields additional heat in the shaded area, such as exhaust, 
running machinery, heat-radiating structures, or heat in a non-air-
conditioned vehicle;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-15 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
8 
(B) 
the shaded area is located further than 0.25 miles from the worksite for 
employees accessing the shade by foot, or otherwise too far to reasonably 
access during rest and meal periods; 
(C) 
the shaded area is too small for employees to sit fully shaded in normal 
posture, without touching one another; 
(D) 
the shaded area is neither ventilated nor open to the air; or 
(E) 
the area has unsafe, unhealthy, unsanitary, or other conditions (e.g., 
noxious odor from rot or garbage) that deter or discourage accessing or 
using the shade. 
3.3.1 If an employer can demonstrate that providing access to adequate shade 
is not safe or possible (e.g., during high wind), then, during at least the 
times when Rule 3.3 requires access to shade, it shall provide equivalent 
protection by alternate measures, such as an air-conditioned site (e.g., a 
vehicle or structure), and/or an individualized cooling item (e.g., vest, 
bandana, or towel) that contains or is made from material that retains a 
cool temperature. 
An employer may provide cooling with an indoor air-conditioned space as 
an alternative to outdoor shade, without demonstrating that providing 
access to adequate shade is not safe or possible, provided the space 
meets the requirements of 3.3(B), (C), and (E). 
3.3.2 Range workers shall be authorized and permitted to seek and use shade 
during rest and meal periods, and otherwise limit the impact of heat and 
sun exposure. 
3.4 
Increased Risk Conditions. 
3.4.1 “Increased risk conditions” means one or more of the following conditions 
occur in the day, in addition to Rule 3.1 heat conditions (i.e., a 
temperature of at least 80 degrees), applying standards in Rule 3.1 and 
below for choosing a locality and a reliable forecast. 
(A) 
Temperature: A daily high forecast or measured worksite 
temperature is at least 95 degrees.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-15 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
9 
(B) 
Unhealthy Air Quality: A Colorado Department of Public Health and 
Environment (CDPHE) Air Quality Advisory (AQA) or Action Day is 
in effect (for the State or a locality or other area that includes the 
worksite), with the exception in (1) below. [As of publication of 
these rules: AQA and Action Day information is available from 
CDPHE (888-4-THE AIR or www.colorado.gov/airquality, with sign-
up for email updates), or federal agencies relying on CDPHE data 
(the National Weather Service (NWS) at www.weather.gov, or the 
Environmental Protection Agency at www.airnow.gov).] 
(1) 
For Action Days based solely on ozone, this increased risk 
condition does not apply if an employer shows that the Air 
Quality Index (AQI) for its worksite location is rated 
“moderate” or “good” (i.e., AQI of 100 or less) based on: (a) 
current or forecasted AQI ozone data from NWS “Air Quality 
Forecast Guidance” (as of publication of these rules, at 
www.airquality.weather.gov); or (b) the nearest available 
CDPHE monitoring site, as long as it is within 50 miles of the 
worksite. 
(C) 
Long Days: An employee (other than a range worker) is scheduled 
or reasonably expected to work over 12 hours in the workday or 
shift. 
(D) 
Heavy Clothing or Gear Required: The employee is required, by the 
employer or safety protocols for their equipment or work, to wear 
vapor barrier clothes (i.e., clothes significantly inhibiting sweat from 
evaporating into outside air, such as various chemical resistant or 
encapsulating suits), or personal protective equipment (such as 
protective jackets, suits, or coveralls) requiring an additional layer 
over regular clothes or covering all or almost all of the head and 
face. 
(E) 
Acclimatization: The employee is in their first four workdays for the 
employer during which the Rule 3 requirements are triggered. The 
requirements of this rule apply when the employee is newly 
exposed to heat in the workplace and after an employee spends 30 
days away from the workplace.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-15 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
10 
3.4.2 Under increased risk condition, employers shall ensure that no more than 
two hours of work are performed before at least 10 minutes of rest are 
provided, by any mix of spacing out any breaks already required by these 
or other Rules, and/or providing additional breaks meeting the rest or meal 
period standards of Rule 5 of the COMPS Order; except that for range 
workers, employers shall encourage spacing the rest breaks provided in 
the COMPS Order, and other rest opportunities, to include rest every two 
hours to the maximum extent possible. 
3.4.3 Before a workday or shift starts (or as soon as possible during a shift, if 
the employer only later learns of an increased risk condition), employers 
shall notify employees, by any effective means, of their rights to (1) all 
Rule 3 heat protections, including additional Rule 3.4 breaks, and (2) 
additional preventative cool-down rest under Rule 3.5.5 when needed. If 
an employer cannot contact an employee to provide this information, or 
cannot assess possible increased risk conditions, it shall provide this 
information if any such conditions are anticipated or forecasted to be 
present during that week (or lesser time period when an employee is 
inaccessible). 
3.4.4 If at any point in a calendar year a worksite temperature of at least 95 
degrees is reasonably expected (as defined in Rule 3.1.6), or actually 
occurs, then an employer shall provide employees with fans sufficient to 
circulate air in all sleeping quarters in employer-provided housing (e.g., 
bedrooms or multi-bed dormitory rooms). Qualifying fans can include air 
conditioning or other devices that circulate cooled air. Qualifying fans shall 
be able to run continuously. 
3.5 
Safety Procedures. If at any point in the calendar year a worksite temperature of 
at least 80 degrees is reasonably expected (as defined in Rule 3.1.6), then an 
employer shall implement the following.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-15 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
11 
3.5.1 Communication availability. Employers shall maintain effective 
communication means for employees by voice, observation, or (if area 
reception is reliable) electronic means, so that when necessary for health 
or safety, employees can contact a supervisor, other designated 
individual, or emergency medical services. If an employer cannot regularly 
communicate with employees (e.g., range workers in an area lacking 
reliable reception), then it shall identify and implement (including by 
training employees as needed) means (A) to make contact with 
employees to monitor their well-being, and (B) for employees to obtain 
medical care in emergencies, such as those detailed in federal regulations 
for range worker visas (which include: providing satellite or cell phones, 
wireless devices, or radio transmitters; arranging for employees to be 
located, on a regular basis, in a geographic area where electronic 
communication devices operate effectively; or arranging for regular, pre-
scheduled, in-person employer-employee visits).  
3.5.2 Monitoring and receiving reports of heat illness or injury. Employers shall 
monitor, and receive reports of, signs or symptoms of heat illness or injury, 
by any of the following: 
(A) 
observation of up to 20 employees by a designated individual; 
(B) 
a mandatory buddy system assigning each employee to observe, at 
periodic intervals, one or more other employees; 
(C) 
regular communication with any employee working outside the 
presence of others, such as by radio or phone; or 
(D) 
any other effective means of monitoring and receiving reports. 
3.5.3 Response to possible heat illness or injury. Employers shall respond to 
signs and symptoms of heat illness or injury, when reported by anyone or 
when observed by a supervisor or other designated individual, promptly 
and appropriately to the severity, by: 
(A) 
promptly relieving from duty an employee showing, or reported to 
have, such signs or symptoms (or, for an employee outside the 
presence of others, permitting them to relieve themselves from 
duty);

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-15 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
12 
(B) 
monitoring those signs or symptoms (or for employees outside the 
presence of others, checking in as frequently as weather, 
environmental, or other circumstances warrant to monitor employee 
health and safety) and, when warranted, ensuring that such 
employees are not left alone or sent home without being offered on-
site first aid and/or emergency services; and 
(C) 
implementing a Rule 3.5.4 emergency response for severe signs or 
symptoms, e.g., decreased consciousness, staggering, vomiting, 
disorientation, irrational behavior, convulsions, or (even after 
resting) an increased heart rate. 
3.5.4 Emergency response. Employers shall: 
(A) 
designate at least one person at each worksite to contact 
emergency medical services when needed, and permit others to if 
that person is unavailable; and 
(B) 
ensure, in an emergency, that emergency medical services are 
contacted, and provided all necessary information, as immediately 
as possible (including contact information and directions to reach 
the employee(s)), and that (if necessary and appropriate) 
employees are transported to where responders can reach them. 
3.5.5 Preventative measures. An employer shall allow and facilitate employee 
preventative measures, including by reminding employees of the 
availability of water, shade for use during breaks, and (if an employee 
believes it is needed to avoid or remedy overheating) cool-down rest in 
shade. Preventative cool-down rest may be satisfied with rest or meal 
periods already required by the COMPS Order or Rule 3 (and otherwise 
qualifies as additional rest period time under those Rules), as long as 
other requirements of this Rule 3.5.5 are followed, and no preventative 
cool-down rest is denied or delayed based on the scheduling or use of 
other rest or meal periods. An employee taking a preventative cool-down 
rest shall: 
(A) 
be monitored (or if outside of the presence of others, 
communicated with as frequently as weather, environmental, or 
other circumstances warrant to monitor employee health and 
safety) and asked if they have signs or symptoms of heat illness or 
injury, and if symptoms persist after resting, the employer shall 
respond as these Rules require; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-15 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
13 
(B) 
not be sent back to work until any such signs or symptoms have 
abated, but in no event in less than 10 minutes after the employee 
reaches the shade. 
3.6 
Training. If at any point in the calendar year a worksite temperature of at least 80 
degrees is reasonably expected (as defined in Rule 3.1.6), then an employer 
shall implement the following training measures by April 20th of each year, and 
upon hiring for new employees hired after those training measures. 
3.6.1 Training shall be provided to all employees on the following: 
(A) 
environmental and personal risk factors for heat illness, including 
the added burden of heat on the body from exertion, clothing, and 
gear; 
(B) 
the importance of acclimatization in the first days of work in heat, 
drinking water, and promptly reporting their or others’ signs or 
symptoms of heat illness or injury; 
(C) 
different types, signs, and symptoms of heat illness, including self-
monitoring, and how signs or symptoms can progress from mild to 
serious or life-threatening; 
(D) 
basic first aid (including by the employees themselves), and the 
available emergency responses to heat illness; and 
(E) 
the requirements of Rule 3 (Heat Illness and Injury Protection) and 
Rule 5.1 (Retaliation and Interference Prohibited), which may be 
satisfied by providing a document that satisfies the Rule 5.2 
requirement of posted notice of rights, as well as how the employer 
is complying with Rule 3 (e.g., how it is providing required water, 
shade, and break time, as well as its safety procedures). 
3.6.2 Supervisors and others designated to have any roles or responsibilities to 
implement any requirements in these Rules shall be trained on those roles 
or responsibilities. 
3.6.3 An employer may comply with this Rule 3.6 by providing site-specific 
information on the topics in Rules 3.6.1(E) and 3.6.2, and for the non-site-
specific topics in Rule 3.6.1(A)-(D), by providing training based on any one 
of the following heat safety programs, or another program with 
comparable information:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-15 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
14 
● 
“Heat Illness Prevention Training Guide, A Lesson Plan for 
Employers,” published by the federal Occupational Safety and 
Health Administration (as of publication of these rules, available in 
English at www.osha.gov/index.php/heat-exposure/resources); 
● 
“Heat Education and Awareness Tools (HEAT) Facilitator’s Guide,” 
published by the University of Washington Pacific Northwest 
Agricultural Safety and Health Center (as of publication of these 
rules, available in English and Spanish at 
www.deohs.washington.edu/pnash/heat-toolkit); or 
● 
“Heat Illness Prevention Employer Training Discussion Guides and 
Visual Aids,” published by the University of California Davis 
Western Center for Agricultural Health and Safety (as of publication 
of these rules, available in English and Spanish at 
aghealth.ucdavis.edu/training/heat-illness). 
3.6.4 For any employees not fluent in English, the employer shall provide, in the 
employee’s primary language for any written or verbal content, either 
training, printed, or online materials accessible to the employee, covering 
the training content. The employer may ask the Division for help procuring 
materials in that language. 
Rule 4. 
Access to Key Service Providers 
4.1 
Purpose. In addition to access to key service providers at any location other than 
the employer’s property; for housed employees, access to visitors and to offsite 
services required by statute, C.R.S. § 8-13.5-202, this Rule 4 provides “additional 
times during which an employer may not interfere with an agricultural worker’s 
reasonable access to key service providers, including periods during which the 
agricultural worker is performing compensable work, especially during periods 
when the agricultural worker is required to work in excess of forty hours per week 
and may have difficulty accessing such services outside of work hours” (C.R.S. § 
8-13.5-202(1)(c)), including difficulty planning appointments with, communicating 
with, following up with, and reviewing information from key service providers. 
4.2 
Communication access to off-site providers.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-15 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
15 
4.2.1 An employer shall not interfere with an agricultural worker’s reasonable 
access to key service providers at any location other than the employer’s 
property during any time in which the agricultural worker is not performing 
compensable work or during paid or unpaid rest and meal breaks. An 
employer shall not interfere with an agricultural worker’s reasonable 
access to key service providers through remote channels, including 
telehealth appointments, on the employer’s property. 
4.2.2 Communication with off-site providers shall be permitted during all rest 
and meal periods, required breaks under these Rules and any other 
statute or rule, and any other time when the worker is not performing 
compensable work. 
4.2.3 Employees shall be provided and permitted to use a location with phone 
service and internet access that allows as much privacy and quiet as 
possible. 
(A) 
If an employee living in employer-provided housing lacks a device 
for phone or internet access, then the employer shall provide a 
device when the employee needs to use one. 
(B) 
If the worksite lacks phone or internet service, then the employer 
(1) shall permit an employee with their own transportation (as 
described in C.R.S. § 8-13.5-202(1)(f)) to travel to such a site with 
service, or (2) shall, for an employee living in employer-provided 
housing without transportation of their own, provide transportation 
to a site with service within 24 hours of the employee’s request 
(which may be the same transportation that satisfies the 
requirements of C.R.S. § 8-13.5-202(1)(e) to provide workers 
transportation for service provider access, if the employee is 
provided adequate time for the activities identified in § 202(1)(e)). 
(C) 
If an employer cannot provide an employee with the communication 
access detailed in (A) and (B), then it shall provide meaningful 
access to key service providers by alternate means.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-15 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
16 
4.2.4 In any workweek of over 40 hours, an employee who requests at least 24 
hours in advance shall be permitted, at least once per week, to extend a 
meal period or other 30-minute break to up to 60 minutes (the extra time 
may be unpaid) to communicate with a key service provider of their choice 
during the provider’s hours of operation. For range workers, an employer 
may require 72 hours’ notice (except for health emergency needs) before 
permitting up to 60 minutes for such communication with a key service 
provider. If an employer denies a request made less than 24 hours in 
advance (or less than 72 hours in advance for a range worker), the 
employer must allow the employee to extend a different break during that 
workweek or any break during the next workweek (in addition to other 
breaks to which the employee may be entitled). 
4.2.5 An employer shall promptly provide an employee all mail or other 
communications (written, electronic, or verbal) it receives that were sent to 
or left for the employee. 
4.3 
Additional break time to facilitate service provider access during long workweeks. 
An employer shall provide (in addition to other rest, meal, or other breaks 
provided by these Rules, the COMPS Order, or other statutes or rules) to 
employees other than range workers one additional paid break of 60 minutes in 
any workweek of over 60 hours worked, and two such paid breaks in any 
workweek of over 70 hours. 
4.3.1 If an employer had no reason to believe an employee would exceed 60 or 
70 hours until the last day of the week, it may instead provide the 
additional break time the following week. 
4.3.2 During this additional break time, employees shall be permitted to leave 
the worksite and to use the time either to directly support their access to a 
key service provider’s hours of operation, or as indirect support by using 
the time for other needs (meals, rest, other services, etc.) that may 
facilitate their access to key service providers at other times. 
4.3.3 Paid break time under this rule shall be compensated at the same rate as 
time worked and is governed by the COMPS Order provisions applicable 
to paid rest periods. 
4.4 
Visitors at Employer-provided Housing. 
4.4.1 An employer shall not interfere with an agricultural worker’s reasonable 
access to visitors at the agricultural worker’s employer-provided housing 
during any time when the agricultural worker is present at such housing.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-15 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
17 
4.4.2 An agricultural employer that provides housing and transportation for 
agricultural workers shall, at least one day per week, provide 
transportation to the agricultural workers to a location where the workers 
can access basic necessities, conduct financial transactions, and meet 
with key service providers; except that transportation must be provided not 
less than one day every three weeks for range workers who are actively 
engaged in the production of livestock on the open range. 
4.5 
Right to Exit. No person other than the agricultural worker may prohibit, bar, or 
interfere with, or attempt to prohibit, bar, or interfere with, the access to or egress 
from the residence of any agricultural worker by any person, either by the 
erection or maintenance of any physical barrier, by physical force or violence, or 
by the threat of physical force or violence, or by any order or notice given in any 
manner. 
4.6 
Emergency Access. An employer shall allow access to its property in the event of 
necessity to the maximum extent of law. 
Rule 5. 
Enforcement 
5.1 
Retaliation and Interference Prohibited. Retaliation for or interference with any 
protected activity or right under the ALRRA or these Rules is prohibited. 
Retaliation and interference have the same meaning as defined by C.R.S. § 8-2-
206 and Colorado WARNING Rule 2.11, 7 CCR 1103-11, which is incorporated 
by reference and available to the public for review as stated in Rule 1.2. 
5.2 
Notice of Rights. Employers “shall post notice of an agricultural worker’s rights 
under [C.R.S. Title 8, Article 13.5] Part 2” (C.R.S. § 8-13.5-202(3)), in conformity 
with Colorado WARNING Rules 4.1, 4.3 through 4.4, and 4.6(A), 7 CCR 1103-
11, which are incorporated by reference and available to the public for review as 
stated in Rule 1.2. This Rule 5.2 may be satisfied with (A) an up-to-date 
Agricultural Labor Rights and Responsibilities Poster published by the Division; 
(B) at any time such a poster is unavailable, an up-to-date version of an 
Interpretive Notice and Formal Opinion on agricultural labor rights and 
responsibilities published by the Division; or (C) another document with the 
required information. Division publications are available at 
www.ColoradoLaborLaw.gov.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-15 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
18 
5.3 
Complaints and Investigations. The Division may investigate possible violations 
of these Rules. Complaints within the scope of C.R.S. §§ 8-2-206 or 8-13.5-204 
of the ALRRA may be filed in court. Complaints of any violations of the ALRRA or 
of these Rules may be filed with the Division and shall be governed by the 
Colorado WARNING Rules, 7 CCR 1103-11, and any other Division rules that 
may apply based on the type of complaint or investigation. The Division will 
consider any showing by the employer of good-faith effort to comply to the 
maximum extent possible in exercising discretion as to whether to investigate 
certain types of claims under these Rules or the ALRRA, and as to appropriate 
remedies for violations in such investigations.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1103-15 
Division of Labor Standards and Statistics 
 
19 
_____________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 05/01/2022. 
Entire rule eff. 02/01/2026.
