---
id: "7_CCR_1106-1"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "7 CCR 1106-1"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=8862&fileName=7%20CCR%201106-1&type=pdf"
---

#### 7_CCR_1106-1. 7 CCR 1106-1

1 
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR AND EMPLOYMENT 
Colorado Uninsured Employers Board 
COLORADO UNINSURED EMPLOYERS FUND 
7 CCR 1106-1 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Rule 1 General Provisions 
1-1 
The following definitions shall apply unless otherwise indicated in these rules: 
1-2 
Meetings 
(A) 
The Board shall meet four times per year or more often if a majority of the board 
determines it is necessary. Meetings shall be noticed as required by law. 
(B) 
All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public and conducted on the record except 
as permitted by the Colorado Open Meetings Act. 
(C) 
Travel reimbursement to Board members shall be paid in accordance with the rules 
promulgated by the Colorado State Controller’s Office and guidance issued by the CDLE. 
1-3 
The Board is not an insurer or employer for purposes of the Colorado Workers’ Compensation 
Act or Workers’ Compensation Rules of Procedure. 
1-4 
[Expired 05/15/2020 per House Bill 20-1179] 
1-5 
Financial records of the cue fund will be maintained by the division of workers’ compensation in 
accordance with all applicable statutory authority, rules and regulations. 
Rule 2 Claims 
2-1 
Notice to the Board 
(A) 
The CUE Board shall be notified by the Division monthly of any claim deemed or 
appearing to be uninsured. 
(B) 
Any Application for Hearing or Response to Application for Hearing filed in a claim in 
which the issue of insurance coverage is endorsed or which is considered uninsured by 
the Division or which has been accepted by the Board for payment of benefits shall be 
served upon the Board or its designated representative at the time of filing. 
(C) 
At the discretion of the board, an order issued without proper notice to the board may be 
accepted for purposes of an application for benefits. 
(D) 
The Board may notify all parties of its intent to join the claim by filing a Response to the 
Application for Hearing or upon motion and order to join the claim. If the deadline for filing 
a response to the application for hearing has expired, an extension shall be granted by a 
prehearing administrative law judge upon good cause shown. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1106-1 
Colorado Uninsured Employers Board 
 
2 
2-2 
Initial Application 
(A) 
Application for payment of benefits from the Fund may only be made after issuance of a 
final order finding the claim to be compensable and the employer to be uninsured. Any 
such application shall be made within 90 days of the order becoming final. The Board 
shall notify the claimant of the 90 day deadline for application. 
(B) 
Where the Board participated in the hearing, the application for benefits may not be 
rejected unless the Fund is closed pursuant to 3-2(B). 
(C) 
Where the Board received notice and did not participate in the hearing, it is bound by the 
final order with regard to compensability of the claim. Applications for benefits may only 
be denied if: 
(1) 
The Board or its agents determine an insured entity such as a statutory employer 
is responsible for payment of benefits. 
(2) 
The application for benefits appears to be fraudulent. 
(3) 
The Fund has been temporarily closed pursuant to the Board’s authority under 
Rule 3-2 
(D) 
Upon rejection of an initial application for entry into the Fund the Applicant may file an 
application for hearing to contest the determination of the Board. Any such application for 
hearing shall be filed within 90 days of the date the Board issues notice the application 
for benefits was rejected. Notice shall include a statement of the right to apply for hearing 
within 90 days. Failure to file an application for hearing within the time provided shall be 
deemed a waiver of the right to appeal. 
2-3 
Benefits 
(A) 
At the time of initial acceptance into the Fund a Claimant shall be entitled to receive 
payment for all benefits which accrued prior to the date of acceptance, subject to the 
benefit levels set by the Board in the annual report required by Rule 3-1 which were 
applicable at the time the benefits accrued. 
(B) 
At the time of initial acceptance into the Fund all reasonable and necessary medical 
provider bills which remain unpaid will be paid pursuant to Workers’ Compensation Rule 
of Procedure 16. The injured worker will be reimbursed for any such payments made out 
of pocket. Any medical bills more than three years old at the time of application must be 
reviewed by the Board and will be paid only upon a majority vote. 
(C) 
Following acceptance into the Fund, benefits shall be paid in the same manner as 
workers’ compensation benefits paid pursuant to the Workers’ Compensation Act, except 
that: 
(1) 
The Board may modify, terminate or suspend payments from the CUE Fund 
pursuant to 8-67-107(1)(b). 
(2) 
For any period where payments are so modified, terminated or suspended, the 
Claimant shall have no claim to accrued payments from the Fund other than 
medical benefits.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1106-1 
Colorado Uninsured Employers Board 
 
3 
(a) 
Nothing in this section shall be construed as reducing the liability of the 
non-insured employer to pay the full amount of benefits as required by 
the Workers’ Compensation Act. 
(b) 
Any bills for medical services which accrue during a period of reduced 
benefits shall have first priority upon any subsequent increase or 
resumption of benefits. 
(D) 
Any claimant seeking benefits from the cue fund must file a notice of entitlement to such 
benefits with the board for benefits between February 1 and April 1 of each year. 
(1) 
The Board shall send each claimant that received benefits the prior year a notice 
form to complete. 
(2) 
Failure to properly file the required notice will result in the suspension of payment 
of indemnity benefits from the Fund. 
(E) 
Any medical bills authorized and approved and not paid due to a limitation of funds shall 
be retained by the Board and paid first in the following fiscal year. 
2-4 
Adjusting Procedures 
(A) 
At any point after acceptance into the Fund the Board may take any action permitted by 
the Workers’ Compensation Act on behalf of the employer. 
(1) 
The employer may object to any action by following the same procedure set forth 
by statute for claimant to object. Where statute does not provide a procedure for 
objecting, the employer may request a prehearing conference. 
(2) 
Nothing in this section shall be construed so as to prohibit or prevent the 
uninsured employer from filing an application for hearing on any contested 
issues. 
(B) 
The Board will be the only entity permitted to file admissions of liability for accepted 
claims with the Division of Workers’ Compensation 
(C) 
Any admissions filed by the Board shall represent the benefits to which the injured worker 
is legally entitled under the Workers’ Compensation Act, without regard to restrictions on 
payments from the Fund imposed by the Board due to funding. 
(D) 
Twice a year the Board shall provide the injured worker and Division, on a form 
designated by the Division, a statement of benefits actually paid by the Board and owed 
by the employer. 
Rule 3 Funding and Review 
3-1 
Annual Review 
(A) 
On an annual basis the Board shall review funding received the previous year, 
anticipated funding for the upcoming year as well as actual expenditures for the prior year 
and anticipated expenditures for the upcoming fiscal year.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1106-1 
Colorado Uninsured Employers Board 
 
4 
(B) 
On or before June 1 of each year the Board shall release an annual report identifying the 
benefit level that will be paid for the upcoming fiscal year subject to the Board’s authority 
to lower benefits based on funding levels as set forth in §8-67-107(1)(b). The report shall 
also include the total number of uninsured claims filed with the Division, the number of 
claims for which benefits were paid in the previous year, the total amount paid from the 
Fund to injured workers listed by category of benefit as well as information regarding 
efforts at recovery from uninsured employers. 
3-2 
Interim reviews 
(A) 
The Board may at any time review funding levels and issue a modified report. 
(B) 
If funding levels are insufficient to continue paying benefits at the benefit level announced 
in the annual report the Board may, at its discretion, lower benefit levels for the remainder 
of the year and/or close the Fund to new applicants. 
(1) 
Any claimant denied access to the Fund upon initial application because of lack 
of funding may reapply the following fiscal year, provided said claimant is still 
entitled to receive benefits. 
(2) 
Any claimant admitted to the fund on reapplication pursuant to this section will be 
entitled to have their outstanding medical bills paid dating back to the date of 
injury subject to the limitations in rule 2-3(b). 
(3) 
Upon admission following reapplication, non-medical benefits will be paid in 
accordance with the priority set forth in §8-67-107(1)(b) and the funding levels 
otherwise established by the board. 
(c) 
The board may include contingencies in the annual report to adjust the benefit 
level based on remaining balance in the fund without the need to issue an interim 
report. 
Rule 4 Medical Providers 
4-1 
Upon notice of designation a new authorized treating physician, Claimant shall schedule an 
appointment with the new provider within 30 days or request that the Board or its agent schedule 
the appointment. The Board may schedule a demand appointment at any time after designation. 
4-2 
The Board or its agent shall forward all medical reports available, and identifying information for 
the claimant being referred, to the newly designated physician within 7 days of designation 
4-3 
The Board or its agent shall include a request to the provider that the claimant be contacted 
within 7 days to schedule an initial appointment. 
Rule 5 Actions Against Uninsured Employers 
5-1 
The board may utilize third-party attorneys and collections services to pursue recovery of benefits 
from uninsured employers. 
5-2 
Referral of cases for collection may be made by the board itself, by third-party vendors contracted 
to adjust claims and by staff of the division of workers’ compensation specifically delegated to 
make such referrals.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
7 CCR 1106-1 
Colorado Uninsured Employers Board 
 
5 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 10/30/2018. 
Rules 1-4, 1-5, 2-1(C)-(D), 2-3(D), 3-2(B)-(C), Rule 5 eff. 03/30/2019. 
Annotations 
Rule 1-4 (adopted 02/05/2019) was not extended by House Bill 20-1179 and therefore expired 
05/15/2020.
