---
id: "8_CCR_1203-9"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1203-9"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12509&fileName=8%20CCR%201203-9&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1203-9. 8 CCR 1203-9

1 
Department of Agriculture 
Plant Industry Division 
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF THE ORGANIC CERTIFICATION ACT 
8 CCR 1203-9 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
Section 1. 
Purpose 
1.01. These permanent rules are intended to facilitate certification of organic producers 
and handlers by the Colorado Department of Agriculture (“Department”) under 
the United States Department of Agriculture's National Organic Program. 
Section 2. 
Certification of Producers and Handlers Under the National Organic 
Program 
2.01. All certification of organic producers and handlers shall be done by the 
Department in its capacity as an accredited certifying agent for the United States 
Department of Agriculture's National Organic Program and in accordance with 
the provisions of the Organic Food Production Act of 1990, 7 U.S.C. § 6501 et 
seq. (2018) , incorporated by reference herein, and the National Organic 
Program Final Rule, 7 C.F.R. Part 205 (2019) , incorporated by reference herein. 
Please refer to Section 5 for incorporation by reference information. 
Section 3. 
Fees 
3.01. Each applicant for certification shall be charged an annual, non-refundable 
certification fee based on the direct and indirect cost of administering the 
Program, including but not limited to, the category or categories for which the 
applicant is seeking certification, the type, size and complexity of the operation, 
the timing of submission of the application with respect to when an inspection 
must be conducted and any other factors that affect the cost to perform required 
certification activities for the applicant. Applicants shall submit payment of this 
fee with their application for certification. Once certified, all producers and 
handlers certified under the program shall pay this fee on an annual basis for 
each subsequent year in which they wish to remain certified by the Department. 
3.02. The certification fee will be calculated by combining a base fee of $517.50 for the 
Applicant’s primary scope with scope fees as set forth below. If more than one 
type of production occurs within a scope, the scope fee is based upon the 
production which produces the most income. For operations that include multiple 
scopes, each additional scope incurs only a $1,035.00 base fee. For the 
purposes of this Section 3, “primary scope” means the part of an applicant’s 
operation that produces the most income. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-9 
Plant Industry Division 
 
2 
a. 
Crop Scope Fees 
i. 
Dryland Acres 
1. 
1 – 1,000 acres: $517.50 
2. 
1,001 – 4,000 acres: $1,035.00 
3. 
4,001 – 7,500 acres: $2,173.50 
4. 
7,501 – 10,000 acres: $2,691.00 
5. 
10,001 or more acres: $3,208.50 
ii. 
Greenhouse/Specialty Crop 
1. 
1 – 12,000 square feet: $517.50 
2. 
12,001 – 15,000 square feet: $1,035.00 
3. 
15,001 or more square feet: $2,173.50 
iii. 
Irrigated Acres 
1. 
1 – 25 acres: $517.50 
2. 
26 – 200 acres: $1,035.00 
3. 
201 – 1,000 acres: $2,173.50 
4. 
1,001 – 5,000 acres: $2,691.00 
5. 
5,001 or more acres: $3,208.50 
iv. 
Perennial Fruit 
1. 
1 – 5 acres: $517.50 
2. 
6 – 15 acres: $1,035.00 
3. 
16 – 30 acres: $1,552.50 
4. 
31 – 50 acres: $2,173.50 
5. 
51 or more acres: $2,691.00 
b. 
Livestock Scope Fees 
i. 
Cattle – Dairy/Beef

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-9 
Plant Industry Division 
 
3 
1. 
1 – 100 head: $517.50 
2. 
101 – 300 head: $1,035.00 
3. 
301 – 1,000 head: $2,691.00 
4. 
1,001 – 5,000 head: $3,622.50 
5. 
5,001 or more head: $10,350.00 
ii. 
Poultry 
1. 
1 – 1,000 birds: 
$517.50 
2. 
1,001 – 10,000 birds: $1,035.00 
3. 
10,001 – 25,000 birds: $2,173.50 
4. 
25,001 – 50,000 birds: $2,691.00 
5. 
50,001 or more birds: $3,208.50 
iii. 
Other (sheep, pigs, etc.) 
1. 
1 – 100 head: $517.50 
2. 
101 – 300 head: 
$1,035.00 
3. 
301 – 1,000 head: $2,691.00 
4. 
1,001 – 5,000 head: $3,622.50 
5. 
5,001 or more head: $10,350.00 
c. 
Poultry and Livestock Processing Scope Fees 
i. 
Livestock Processing 
1. 
1 – 300 head: $517.50 
2. 
301 to 500 head: $1,035.00 
3. 
501 or more head: $2,173.50 
ii. 
Poultry Processing Scope Fees 
1. 
1 – 3,000 birds: 
$517.50 
2. 
3,001 – 9,000 birds: $1,035.00

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-9 
Plant Industry Division 
 
4 
3. 
9,001 or more head: $2,173.50 
d. 
Process Handler Scope Fees 
If both single-ingredient and multi-ingredient products are requested for 
certification, the scope fee is based upon the highest fee of the two product 
categories. 
i. 
Multi-Ingredient Finished Products 
1. 
1 – 5 products: $517.50 
2. 
6 – 10 products: $1,035.00 
3. 
11 – 15 products: $1,552.50 
4. 
16 – 20 products: $2,070.00 
5. 
21 – 30 products: $2,587.50 
6. 
31 or more products: $3,105.00 
ii. 
Single-Ingredient Finished Products 
1. 
1 – 20 products: $517.50 
2. 
21 – 50 products: $1,035.00 
3. 
51 – 75 products: $1,552.50 
4. 
76 – 100 products: $2,070.00 
5. 
101 – 200 products: $2,587.50 
6. 
201 or more products: $3,105.00 
e. 
Wild Crop Scope Fees 
i. 
Wild Crop Harvesting 
1. 
1 – 2 sites: $517.50 
2. 
3 – 5 sites: $1,035.00 
3. 
6 or more sites: $2,173.50 
3.03. Depending upon the operation(s) that an applicant wishes to certify, an applicant 
may have more than one additional scope.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-9 
Plant Industry Division 
 
5 
3.04. In addition to the above annual fees, all applicants for and holders of 
certifications issued by the Department shall be required to pay the costs of any 
inspections necessary to obtain and maintain certification as follows: 
a. 
A flat-rate inspection fee of $155.25 per inspection that covers indirect 
costs of the inspection (e.g., mileage, travel, pre- and post-inspection 
review); and 
b. 
On-site inspection time will be charged at a rate of $46.58 per hour. 
3.05. The base application fee of $517.50 is non-refundable. Any additional scope 
base fee(s) and the primary scope fees are non-refundable once the Colorado 
Department of Agriculture begins its initial review of the application. In order to 
obtain a refund, the applicant must inform the Colorado Department of 
Agriculture in writing that he/she/it no longer wishes to proceed with organic 
certification and must request a refund of the application fee(s). 
Section 4. 
Minimum Standards for Contract Inspectors 
4.01. The inspector must have sufficient training, knowledge and experience with the 
National Organic Program rules and generally accepted inspection processes to 
conduct inspections in any certification category for which they apply to conduct 
inspections without further training. Inspectors will be selected only in the 
category or categories for which they can demonstrate sufficient training, 
knowledge and experience. 
4.02. A prospective inspector may demonstrate training, knowledge and experience by 
providing: 
a. 
Evidence of inspections conducted within the last three years in specific 
categories. Inspector evaluations for the inspections should be provided 
from the accredited certifier along with the contact name of the accredited 
certifier; or 
b. 
Documentation of successful attendance and completion Independent 
Organic Inspector Association or equivalent training in the past three 
years; or 
c. 
Evidence of other qualifications the Commissioner determines appropriate 
to demonstrate training, knowledge and experience. 
4.03. The Department reserves the right to require the prospective inspector to take an 
examination to determine his or her knowledge of the National Organic Program 
rules and general inspection processes.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-9 
Plant Industry Division 
 
6 
Section 5. 
Incorporation by Reference 
5.01 All material incorporated by reference is made a part of these rules. material 
incorporated by reference does not include later amendments to the incorporated 
material. 
5.02. Copies of all incorporated materials are available for public inspection during 
regular business hours at the Colorado Department of Agriculture, 305 
Interlocken Parkway, Broomfield, Colorado 80021. 
5.03. Copies of incorporated materials are also available on-line as follows: 
a. 
The Organic Food Production Act of 1990, 7 U.S.C. § 6501 et seq, (2018) 
is available at: 
http://uscode.house.gov/browse/prelim@title7/chapter94&edition=prelim. 
b. 
The National Organic Program Final Rule, 7 C.F.R. Part 205 (2019) is 
available at: https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-
idx?SID=158497554242ed518daf630850c57f63&mc=true&node=pt7.3.20
5&rgn=div5. 
Section 6 – 8 
Reserved 
Section 9 
Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose 
9.01. Adopted 7-7-89 - Effective 7-7-89. 
Adopted 8-24-89 - Effective 10-1-89. 
Pursuant to the provisions and requirements of the Organic Certification Act to regulate 
the production and certification of agricultural crops offered for sale as “organically 
grown products,” Title 35, Article 11.5, CRS, the following rules and regulations are 
hereby promulgated. 
The purpose of these rules and regulations is to comply with the provisions of the 
associated statute to provide specific guidelines for the production and certification of 
agricultural products sold or offered for sale as organically grown. 
The regulations are designed to: 
Set standards for producing agricultural products that may be certified as having been 
produced without the use of any synthetically compounded fertilizer or pesticide. 
To set certifications procedures to: 
Issue evidence of the crop certification and for the sale and distribution of the “organic 
label” to licensed producers. 
To establish procedures for:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-9 
Plant Industry Division 
 
7 
Examining and evaluating products offered for sale to “organic producers” as a “plant 
amendment.” 
Establish inspection procedures and policies for enforcement of the Act; 
Determine license and inspection fees. 
9.02. Adopted 5-1-90 - Effective 5-1-90. 
This rule is adopted under the Colorado Organic Certification Act pursuant to Section 
35-11.5-104, C.R.S. and deals with the definition of “synthetic pesticide”. 
Organic producers may not use synthetic pesticides when growing crops on certified 
organic farms. In a number of pesticides the active ingredient is naturally derived but the 
inert ingredients are in some way synthetic. These products are synthetic under the 
definition of synthetic pesticide in the Rules and Regulations adopted on July 7, 1989. 
At this time the list of pesticides which do not fall under the July 7, 1989, definition of 
synthetic is very limited. 
The amended definition will permit organic producers a broader selection of pesticide 
products to choose from and still be able to use natural active ingredients. 
These pesticide products will be needed for use by organic producers in the very near 
future. The time required to go through the public hearing process would prevent many 
of the growers from using these products in the 1990 growing season. This will result in 
a financial loss to growers because of uncontrolled insect and disease problems. 
The immediate adoption of rule 1.19 is imperatively necessary for the preservation of 
public health, safety, and welfare, and compliance with the notice and hearing 
requirements of Section 24-4-103 of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act would 
be contrary to the public interest. 
9.03. Adopted 6-22-90 - Effective 7-30-90. 
The following rule is hereby promulgated under the authority of the Colorado Organic 
Certification Act, pursuant to Section 35-11.5-104, C.R.S. It deals with the definition of 
“synthetic pesticide”. 
Organic producers may not use synthetic pesticides when growing crops on certified 
organic farms. In a number of pesticides the active ingredient is naturally derived but the 
inert ingredients are in some way synthetic. These products are synthetic under the 
definition of synthetic pesticide in the Rules and Regulations adopted on July 7, 1989. 
At this time the list of pesticides which do not fall under the July 7, 1989, definition of 
synthetic is very limited. 
The amended definition will permit organic producers a broader selection of pesticide 
products to choose from and still be able to use natural active ingredients. Without the

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-9 
Plant Industry Division 
 
8 
use of these products certified organic growers may suffer financial losses because of 
uncontrolled insect and disease problems. 
Section 1 of the Rules and Regulations promulgated pursuant to the Colorado Organic 
Certification Act is amended by substituting the following for subsection 1.19.: 
1.19. “Synthetic Pesticide” means any pesticide whose active ingredient contains any 
synthetically manufactured substance. Any pesticide whose active ingredient 
does not contain any synthetically manufactured substance is not a “synthetic 
pesticide” even though it contains an inert ingredient which inert ingredient 
contains a synthetically manufactured substance. This subsection shall expire on 
January 1, 1992. 
9.04. Adopted 10-18-91 - Effective 11-30-91. 
The following rules are hereby promulgated under the authority of the Colorado Organic 
Certification Act, pursuant to Section 35-11.5-104, C.R.S. They deal with the definition 
of “synthetic pesticide” and with the subsection which exempts seed and seedlings from 
the requirements for organic production. 
The definition of “synthetic pesticide” expires on January 1, 1992. At the time it was 
adopted in 1990, the State Agricultural Commission instructed proponents of this 
definition to re-evaluate it prior to 1992. The concern was over the blanket acceptance 
of synthetic inert ingredients in pesticides deemed acceptable for use in organic crop 
production. However, in the fall of 1990 the federal “Organic Foods Production Act of 
1990” was passed by the United States Congress. It calls for state organic certification 
programs to meet certain standards to comply with federal requirements, to take effect 
on October 1, 1993. This federal legislation will make it necessary to amend the 
Colorado Organic Certification Act and the Rules and Regulations pertaining to it before 
this deadline. 
It will be appropriate to re-evaluate the definition of “synthetic pesticide” at the same 
time that other changes, needed to comply with the federal statute, are made to the 
state legislation and regulations. The expiration date of this definition is therefore 
extended to October 1, 1993. 
Subsection 4.02 exempts seed and seedlings from the requirements for organic 
production. This provision expires on January 1, 1992. The subsection was included in 
the regulations because of the great lack of availability of untreated seeds and 
seedlings in the Colorado organic production areas. This lack of availability is still a 
problem to Colorado organic producers and termination of this exemption within the 
next year will create a hardship for many organic producers and cause them to suffer 
financial losses. 
In order to give organic producers more time to find sources of untreated seed, as more 
of these sources are made available, the expiration date of the provisions of this 
subsection are therefore extended until October 1, 1993 for seed. The expiration date 
for seedlings remains at January 1, 1992.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-9 
Plant Industry Division 
 
9 
9.05. Adopted 11-19-93 - Effective 12-30-93. 
The following rule is hereby promulgated under the authority of the Colorado Organic 
Certification Act, pursuant to Section 35-11.5-104, C.R.S., (1993 Supp). It defines 
“synthetic pesticide” and includes an expiration date in the definition. 
The definition states that a pesticide is not a synthetic pesticide because it contains a 
synthetic inert ingredient. This definition thus allows for synthetic inert ingredients in 
pesticides which may be used by organic producers and it is now set to expire on 
October 1, 1995. At the present time there are virtually no pesticides being 
manufactured that do not have synthetic inert ingredients. Organic producers would 
have great difficulty growing crops without using these pesticides. It is anticipated that 
by October 1, 1995, federal regulations will provide lists of pesticides acceptable for use 
in organic production. At that time it will be appropriate to reevaluate this definition. 
Section 1 of the Rules and Regulations promulgated pursuant to the Colorado Organic 
Certification Act is amended by substituting the following for subsection 1.19: 
1.19. “Synthetic Pesticide” means any pesticide whose active ingredient contains any 
synthetically manufactured substance. Any pesticide whose active ingredient 
does not contain any synthetically manufactured substance is not a “synthetic 
pesticide” even though it contains an inert ingredient which inert ingredient 
contains a synthetically manufactured substance. This subsection shall expire on 
October 1, 1995. 
9.06. Adopted 11-18-94 - Effective 12-30-94. 
These amendments to the rules and regulations are adopted pursuant to § 35-11.5-104, 
C.R.S. (1994 Supp.). 
The purposes of these amendments to the rules and regulations are to establish 
standards for the use of any other organic labels on agricultural products sold within the 
state, pursuant to § § 35-11.5-104(1)(h) and 109(2), C.R.S. (1994 Supp.) and to provide 
guidance pertinent to the sanction imposed upon an organic producer's license pursuant 
to §35-11.5-111, C.R.S. (1994 Supp.). 
SECTION 4.5 
STANDARDS FOR THE USE OF OTHER ORGANIC LABELS ON 
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS SOLD WITHIN THE STATE 
4.51. Other organic labels are those labels defined in § 35-11.5-103(6) of the Act, 
specifically, any label, other than the organic certification seal described in 
Section 7 below, which signifies to a consumer that the labelled product was 
organically grown. Such other labels may include, but are not limited to, a sign, 
label, seal, advertisement, or other type of promotional material pertaining to a 
product containing the words “organic,” “organically grown,” , “certified,” “certified 
organic,” “verified,” “verified organic,” any derivation of said words, or words with 
similar meaning. Failure to comply with this Section 4.5 is a prohibited act as set 
forth in §35-11.5-109(2), C.R.S. (1994 Supp.).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-9 
Plant Industry Division 
 
10 
4.52. No such other organic labels shall be utilized in any fashion unless: 
(a) 
The product was produced without the use of artificial irradiation, synthetic 
pesticides, synthetic plant or soil amendments, or fertilizer materials 
except natural organic fertilizers. Soaps for insecticidal purposes, lime 
sulphur, and horticultural oils are permissible; 
(b) 
In the case of perennial crops, was grown in soil or growth medium free of 
the application of synthetic pesticides, synthetic soil and plant 
amendments, and synthetic fertilizer materials for three years prior to 
harvest; and 
(c) 
In the case of annual crops and two-year crops, was grown without the 
use of synthetic pesticides, synthetic soil and plant amendments, and 
synthetic fertilizer materials for three years prior to harvest. 
9.07. Adopted 1-19-96 - Effective 3-1-96. 
This amendment to the rules and regulations is adopted pursuant to §35-11.5-104, 
C.R.S. (1985). It amends the expiration date which is part of the definition of “synthetic 
pesticide”. 
The definition states that a pesticide is not a synthetic pesticide because it contains a 
synthetic inert ingredient. This definition thus allows for synthetic inert ingredients in 
pesticides which may be used by organic producers and it is now set to expire on 
October 1, 1997. At the present time there are virtually no pesticides being 
manufactured that do not have synthetic inert ingredients. Organic producers would 
have great difficulty growing crops without using these pesticides. It is anticipated that 
by October 1, 1997, federal regulations will provide lists of pesticides acceptable for use 
in organic production. At that time it will be appropriate to reevaluate this definition. 
Section 1 of the Rules and Regulations promulgated pursuant to the Colorado Organic 
Certification Act is amended by substituting the following for subsection 1.19: 
1.19. “Synthetic Pesticide” means any pesticide whose active ingredient contains any 
synthetically manufactured substance. Any pesticide whose active ingredient 
does not contain any synthetically manufactured substance is not a “synthetic 
pesticide” even though it contains an inert ingredient which inert ingredient 
contains a synthetically manufactured substance. This subsection shall expire on 
October 1, 1997. 
9.08. Adopted 11-13-97 - Effective 12-30-97. 
This amendment to the rules and regulations is adopted pursuant to § 35-11.5-104, 
C.R.S. (1997).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-9 
Plant Industry Division 
 
11 
The purposes of this amendment are to delete the expiration date which is found in the 
definition of “synthetic pesticide” and to require review of this definition upon adoption of 
applicable federal rules. 
FACTUAL FINDINGS 
The United States Department of Agriculture is in the process of rulemaking pursuant to 
the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990, codified at 7 U.S.C. § 6501 et. seq. It is 
anticipated that these federal rules, which would be controlling, will resolve all issues 
concerning “synthetic pesticides.” The federal rules will likely not be adopted prior to the 
expiration date found in the definition of “synthetic pesticide.” 
Section 1 is amended as follows: 
SECTION 1. TERMS DEFINED AND CONSTRUED 
1.19. “Synthetic Pesticide” means any pesticide whose active ingredient contains any 
synthetically manufactured substance. Any pesticide whose active ingredient 
does not contain any synthetically manufactured substance is not a “synthetic 
pesticide” even though it contains an inert ingredient which inert ingredient 
contains a synthetically manufactured substance. This subsection shall be 
reviewed upon adoption by the United States Department of Agriculture of rules 
pursuant to the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990, codified at 7 U.S.C. § 
6501 et. seq. 
9.09. Adopted 10-16-02 - Effective 10-16-02. 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 
These emergency rules are adopted by the Commissioner of Agriculture pursuant to his 
authority under the Organic Certification Act § 35-11.5-104, C.R.S. (2002). 
PURPOSE: 
The purpose of these emergency rules is to comply with and implement the provisions 
of H.B. 02-1186 directing the Colorado Department of Agriculture (“Department” ) to 
establish an organic certification program that is accredited under the United States 
Department of Agriculture's National Organic Program, which takes effect October 21, 
2002. 
NEED FOR EMERGENCY RULE: 
The Commissioner of Agriculture hereby finds that immediate adoption of emergency 
rules for the establishment and implementation of the organic certification program 
provided for in H.B. 02-1186 is imperatively necessary to comply with federal regulation 
and to preserve the public welfare. The factual basis for this finding is as follows:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-9 
Plant Industry Division 
 
12 
1. 
The Organic Certification Act § § 35-11.5-101 – 117, C.R.S. (2002), was 
originally enacted in 1989 to establish and implement a state program 
administered by the Department to help identify and assist Colorado farmers in 
marketing organically raised agricultural products. 
2. 
In 1990, Congress passed the Organic Food Production Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6501 et 
seq., which authorized the United States Department of Agriculture (“USDA” ) to 
establish a national organic certification program that would supercede all state 
and private certification programs. 
3. 
On December 21, 2000, USDA published its Final Rule at 7 C.F.R. part 205, 
establishing a National Organic Program (“NOP” ). When this program takes 
effect on October 21, 2002, the Colorado organic certification program 
established in 1989 will be preempted by the federal program. As of that date, all 
certifications issued under the 1989 Colorado law will be invalid. From that date 
on, any person that sells any agricultural product labeled as “organic” must be 
certified under the federal NOP instead. 
4. 
In response to requests from Colorado organic producers, the General Assembly 
passed H.B. 02-1186, amending the Organic Certification Act effective June 3, 
2002. This bill directed the Department to apply for accreditation to act as a 
certifying agent for USDA to certify producers and handlers of organic produce 
under the NOP. 
5. 
The Department applied for accreditation at the end of July, 2002, and was 
notified within the last month that it can expect to receive accreditation before the 
October 21, 2002 effective date of the Final NOP Rule. This notification was 
unanticipated because USDA review of other state's applications for accreditation 
took more than six months to complete. 
6. 
In order to serve the needs of organic producers and handlers to become 
certified before October 21, 2002, the Department plans to begin certifying 
producers and handlers as soon as it receives accreditation. If the Department is 
not able to certify handlers and producers prior to that date, they will have to try 
to obtain NOP certification from private certifying agents based outside of the 
state in order to continue their organic business. These emergency rules will 
allow the Department to issue certifications during the interim period until the 
effective date of the permanent rules, which are scheduled to take effect on 
January 1, 2003. 
9.10. Adopted 10-30-02 - Effective 1-30-03. 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 
These permanent rules are adopted by the Commissioner of Agriculture pursuant to his 
authority under the Organic Certification Act § 35-11.5-104, C.R.S. (2002). 
PURPOSE:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-9 
Plant Industry Division 
 
13 
The purpose of these permanent rules is to: (1) repeal all of the existing permanent 
rules for the administration and enforcement of the Organic Certification Act, § § 35-
11.5-101 – 117, C.R.S. (2002), currently published at 8 C.C.R. 1203-9 (including the 
Statement of Basis and Purpose as well as Rules 1 through 11) and; (2) replace the 
current permanent rules with new permanent rules which comply with and implement 
the provisions of H.B. 02-1186 directing the Colorado Department of Agriculture 
(“Department” ) to establish an organic certification program that is accredited under the 
United States Department of Agriculture's National Organic Program. 
FACTUAL AND POLICY ISSUES: 
The factual and policy issues encountered in the proposal of these permanent rules are 
as follows: 
1. 
The Organic Certification Act § § 35-11.5-101 – 117, C.R.S. (2002), was 
originally enacted in 1989 to establish and implement a state program 
administered by the Department to help identify and assist Colorado farmers in 
marketing organically raised agricultural products. 
2. 
In 1990, Congress passed the Organic Food Production Act, 7 U.S.C. § 6501 et 
seq., which authorized the United States Department of Agriculture (“USDA” ) to 
establish a national organic certification program that would supercede all state 
and private certification programs. 
3. 
On December 21, 2000, USDA published its Final Rule at 7 C.F.R. part 205, 
establishing a National Organic Program (“NOP” ). When this program takes 
effect on October 21, 2002, the Colorado organic certification program 
established in 1989 will be preempted by the federal program. As of that date, all 
certifications issued under the 1989 Colorado law will be invalid. From that date 
on, any person that sells any agricultural product labeled as “organic” must be 
certified under the federal NOP instead. 
4. 
In response to requests from Colorado organic producers, the General Assembly 
passed H.B. 02-1186, amending the Organic Certification Act effective June 3, 
2002. This bill directed the Department to apply for accreditation to act as a 
certifying agent for USDA to certify producers and handlers of organic produce 
under the NOP. 
5. 
The Department applied for accreditation at the end of July, 2002, and expects to 
receive accreditation by early October. 
6. 
In order to serve the needs of organic producers and handlers to become 
certified before October 21, 2002, the Department plans to begin certifying 
producers and handlers as soon as it receives accreditation. In the interim period 
before these permanent rules take effect, therefore, the Department plans to 
incorporate the text of these proposed rules in temporary emergency rules.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-9 
Plant Industry Division 
 
14 
9.11. Adopted 2-21-03 - Effective 6-2-03. 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 
These amendments to the permanent rules are adopted by the Commissioner of 
Agriculture pursuant to his authority under the Organic Certification Act § 35-11.5-104, 
C.R.S. (2002). 
PURPOSE: 
The purpose of these amendments to the permanent rules is to repeal the current 
Section 2 of the existing permanent Rules incorporating the federal Organic Food 
Production Act of 1990 and the National Organic Program Final Rule and replace it with 
a new Section 2 that contains identical language to the current Rule plus additional 
language explaining how to obtain the incorporated materials. Nonsubstantive changes 
will be made to the rule to include the history of Statements of Basis and Purpose in 
Section 9. 
FACTUAL AND POLICY ISSUES: 
The factual and policy issues encountered in the proposal of these permanent rules are 
as follows: 
1. 
On October 30, 2002, the Department adopted new rules pursuant to the Organic 
Certification Act § § 35-11.5-101 — 117, C.R.S. (2002), which established a 
certification fee system and incorporated by reference the federal Organic Food 
Production Act of 1990 and the National Organic Program Final Rule. 
2. 
On December 5, 2002, the Department received notice from the Colorado 
General Assembly Office of Legislative Legal Services that, in order to comply 
with § 24-4-104(12.5)(d), C.R.S., of the State Administrative Procedure Act, 
Section 2 of the new permanent Rules must specify how the public may obtain or 
examine the incorporated material. 
9.12. Adopted 4-16-09 - Effective 5-30-09. 
Statutory Authority 
The amendments to the rules are adopted pursuant to the Organic Certification Act, § 
35-11.5-104, C.R.S. (2008). 
The purpose of these amendments is to carry out the provisions of the Organic 
Certification Act by: 
1) 
updating the zip code for the Department of Agriculture to reflect the current zip 
code;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-9 
Plant Industry Division 
 
15 
2) 
removing the requirement that the annual fee for certification be due to the 
Department of Agriculture on the anniversary date of initial certification; and 
3) 
increasing the reimbursement rate that can be charged for mileage for the 
inspector's travel to reflect the cost charged to the Department of Agriculture by 
Fleet Management for the vehicle. 
The factual and policy issues encountered in the proposal of this amendment to the 
rules are as follows: 
1) 
The United States Postal Service changed the last four numbers in the zip code 
several years ago. This change will correct this item in the rule. 
2) 
The current rule requires the annual fee for certification be payable each year on 
the anniversary date of the initial certification. Because the annual fee is paid at 
the time the updated Organic Systems Plan is provided, this is not always 
appropriate. The Organic Systems Plan is a forward looking document that 
needs to submitted prior to the growing season for crops. When the initial 
certification is received in August, this sets up an inappropriate time frame for 
renewal in future years. Removal of this clause will allow the Department of 
Agriculture to set the date the annual fee is due to coincide with the best time for 
submission of the Organic Systems Plan. 
3) 
The current limit for the reimbursement rate of $0.30 per mile that can be 
charged by for mileage for the inspector's travel is lower than what Fleet 
Management changed the Department of Agriculture when gas prices were high. 
Fleet Management raised the reimbursement rate to $0.37 per mile in late 2008. 
This will allow the Department of Agriculture to be reimbursed at the rate needed 
to meet Fleet Management's fee should gas prices rise in the future. 
9.13. Adopted 12-16-10 - Effective 1-30-11. 
Statutory Authority 
The amendments to the rules are adopted pursuant to the Organic Certification Act, § 
35-11.5-104, C.R.S. (2010). 
The purpose of these amendments is to carry out the provisions of the Organic 
Certification Act by: 
1) 
Identifying factors which lead to cost differentiation and the range of application 
fees charged to entities apply for organic certification; and 
2) 
Stating the minimum standards for contract inspectors. The option is now 
possible as the Organic Act was modified in 2010 adding the provision to allow 
for the use of contract inspectors. 
Factual and Policy Issues

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-9 
Plant Industry Division 
 
16 
The factual and policy issues encountered when developing these rules include: 
1) 
Clarification was needed as to what type of factors are considered when 
determining the application fee for certified entities. 
2) 
In 2010 the Organic Certification Act was amended to allow for contract 
inspectors. To implement this new provision, standards were needed to state 
what training, knowledge and experience the Department would require of 
potential inspectors. This provides the minimum qualification for the department 
to use in determining if a potential inspector is qualified. In addition it provides 
information to potential inspectors as to what credentials will be needed to apply 
as a contract inspector. 
9.14 Adopted June 12, 2019– Effective July 30, 2019 
Statutory Authority 
The amendments to the rules are adopted pursuant to the Organic Certification Act, § 
35-11.5-104, C.R.S. 
The purpose of these amendments is to carry out the provisions of the Organic 
Certification Act by: 
1) 
Updating the versions of all material incorporated by reference and combining all 
incorporated by reference language into a new section of the rules; 
2) 
Updating the address for the Colorado Department of Agriculture’s Organic 
Program; 
3) 
Removing the cap on fees for providing certification services and including a fee 
schedule in the Rules; 
4) 
Increasing the rate for inspection fees; and 
5) 
Removing the limit on reimbursement rates for mileage. 
Factual and Policy Issues 
The factual and policy issues encountered when developing these rules include: 
1) 
The Rules were last updated in 2011. In that Time, newer versions of material 
incorporated by reference have been issued. Therefore, the Department is 
updating its Rules to reflect the most recent versions of incorporated material. In 
addition, because incorporated material appears in multiple sections of the 
Rules, the Department is consolidating all incorporation by reference information 
in a new Section 5.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-9 
Plant Industry Division 
 
17 
2) 
The Department has moved its headquarters from Lakewood, Colorado, to 
Broomfield, Colorado. The amended language updates the Department’s 
address. 
3) 
The Organic Program fees currently do not cover the cost of providing 
certification services, and, therefore, the Department must increase base fees 
and scope fees to cover the cost of providing those services. Because the 
Organic Certification Act authorizes the Department to charge for all direct and 
indirect cost of administering and implementing the Act and because the Act 
does not require a cap on fees, the Department has revised the language of the 
Rule to remove the cap and to be more consistent with the language in § 35-
11.5-104(1)(a) concerning fees to fund the Program. 
4) 
The Department has historically calculated certification fees based upon the 
completion of an on-line form. To provide more certainty to the regulated 
community with respect to fees charged, the Organic Program has included the 
information in this form in the Rules. Because the operations of participants in the 
Organic Program have increased in size and complexity since 2011, the Program 
has revised the scope fee categories and values included in the on-line form to 
reflect those changes. Save for large dairy or beef cattle operations, fees have 
increased step-wise across the board. The scope fee for beef or dairy cattle 
operations with over 1,000 head of cattle have increased beyond the step-wise 
amount because these operations frequently cover multiple geographic areas 
and have more complex organic system plans than smaller operations, which 
makes the operations more time-consuming and costly to certify. 
5) 
The current rate charged for inspections only covers the actual cost for the 
inspector’s time based on the current salary and benefits. It does not cover 
indirect costs associated with the inspection, such as inspector training or 
specialized or emergency inspections, nor does it allow for inspectors’ future 
salary and benefit cost increases. By establishing a base inspection fee of 
$150.00, the Department can defray indirect costs, such as mileage, travel, and 
pre- and post-inspection review. An increase in the per hour inspection fee to 
$45.00 enables the program to charge an amount closer to the actual costs of 
providing services. 
6) 
Because travel is now included in the base inspection fee of $150.00 per 
inspection, a specific mileage reimbursement provision is not necessary. This 
increase will also cover the amount currently charged to the Organic Program for 
mileage and vehicle use. 
9.15 Adopted March 11, 2026 – Effective April 30, 2026 
Statutory Authority

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-9 
Plant Industry Division 
 
18 
These amendments to the rules are adopted by the Commissioner of Agriculture 
pursuant to the Commissioner’s authority under the Organic Certification Act, § 35-11.5-
104, C.R.S. 
The purpose of these amendments is to carry out the provisions of the Organic 
Certification Act by: 
1) 
Increasing certification and inspection fees in order to fund all direct and indirect 
costs of the administration and implementation of the Colorado Department of 
Agriculture’s (“Department’s”) Organic Certification Program. 
Factual and Policy Issues 
The factual and policy issues encountered when developing these rules include: 
1) 
The certification and inspection fees were last updated in 2019. Since then, 
inflation and cost-of-living rates have increased and, thus, the current certification 
and inspection fees are no longer covering the cost of providing certification 
services. Therefore, the Department must increase these fees to cover the cost 
of providing those services. 
2) 
The proposed amendments increase all fees identified in the rules by 3.5%. 
Specifically, these amendments increase the base certification fee described in 
Part 3.02 to $517.50; increase all scoping fees described in Parts 3.02(a) – (e) by 
that same 3.5% percentage; increase the flat-rate inspection fee described in 
Part 3.04(a) to $155.25 per inspection; and increase the per hour inspection fee 
described in Part 3.04(b) to $46.58 per hour. This 3.5% increase is consistent 
with the annual inflation rate published by the Office of State Planning and 
Budgeting.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-9 
Plant Industry Division 
 
19 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 05/30/2009. 
Rules 1-4, 9.13 eff. 01/30/2011. 
Rules 2, 3, 5, 9.14 eff. 07/30/2019. 
Rule 3.02, 3.04,3.05, 9.15 eff. 04/30/2026.
