---
id: "8_CCR_1202-11"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1202-11"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=9898&fileName=8%20CCR%201202-11&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1202-11. 8 CCR 1202-11

1 
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF THE COMMODITY HANDLER AND FARM PRODUCTS 
ACT, SECTIONS 35-36-101 THROUGH 314, C.R.S. 
8 CCR 1202-11 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Part 1 Legal Authority 
1.1. 
Section 35-36-103(1)(a), C.R.S. 
Part 2 Definitions and Terms 
2.1. 
“The Act” means the Commodity Handler and Farm Products Act; Title 35, Article 36 of the 
Colorado Revised Statutes. 
2.2. 
“Cash buyer” means a dealer who signs an affidavit stating that the dealer will make payment for 
each transaction in cash or with a bank-certified check, a bank cashier's check, an irrevocable 
electronic funds transfer, or a money order at the time the dealer obtains possession or control of 
the farm products from the owner. 
2.3. 
“Commissioner” means the Commissioner of the Colorado Department of Agriculture 
2.4. 
“Condition” means the process of increasing the storage life of a commodity and minimizing 
spoilage and quality loss. 
2.5. 
“Department” means the Colorado Department of Agriculture 
2.6. 
“Commodity Handler” means a person: (I) engaged in buying any commodities from the owner for 
processing or resale; (II) engaged in receiving and taking possession of any commodities from 
the owner for storage or safekeeping; (III) engaged in soliciting or negotiating sales of 
commodities between the vendor and purchaser respectively; (IV) who receives on consignment 
or solicits from the owner of a commodity any kind of commodity for sale on commission on 
behalf of the owner, who accepts any commodity in trust from the owner of the commodity for the 
purpose of resale, or who sells or offers for sale on commission any commodity or in any way 
handles any commodity for the account of the owner of the commodity; or (V) is engaged in 
buying any commodity from the owner of the commodity for the commercial feeding of livestock 
that are owned wholly or in part by another, at an animal feeding operation with a capacity of 
more than two thousand five hundred head of livestock. Unless otherwise specified, a commodity 
handler means a public warehouse and public warehouse operator. “Commodity handler” does 
not include: (I) A bona fide retail grocery merchant or restaurateur having a fixed or established 
place of business in Colorado if the use of commodities by the person is directly related to the 
operation of the person's retail grocery or restaurant; or(II) A producer as defined in the “Colorado 
Cottage Foods Act”, section 25-4-1614 (9)(c), who earns net revenues of ten thousand dollars or 
less per calendar year from the sale of each eligible food product. 
 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-11 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
2 
2.7. 
“Dealer” means a person: (I) engaged in buying any farm products from the owner for processing 
or resale; (II) engaged in receiving and taking possession of any farm products from the owner for 
storage or safekeeping; (III) engaged in soliciting or negotiating sales of farm products between 
the vendor and purchaser respectively; (IV) who receives on consignment or solicits from the 
owner of a farm product any kind of farm product for sale on commission on behalf of the owner, 
who accepts any farm product in trust from the owner of the farm product for the purpose of 
resale, or who sells or offers for sale on commission any farm product or in any way handles any 
farm product for the account of, or as an agent of, the owner of the farm product; or (V) is 
engaged in buying any farm products or commodities from the owner of the farm products or 
commodities for the commercial feeding of livestock that are owned wholly or in part by another, 
at an animal feeding operation with a capacity of more than two thousand five hundred head of 
livestock. “Dealer” does not include:(I) A bona fide retail grocery merchant or restaurateur having 
a fixed or established place of business in Colorado if the use of farm products by the person is 
directly related to the operation of the person's retail grocery or restaurant; or (II) A producer as 
defined in the “Colorado Cottage Foods Act”, section 25-4-1614 (9)(c), who earns net revenues of 
ten thousand dollars or less per calendar year from the sale of each eligible food product. 
2.8. 
“Financial statement” means a statement prepared according to generally accepted accounting 
principles (GAAP) that accurately presents the financial condition of the applicant or licensee and 
that includes, at a minimum, a balance sheet and statement of income. 
2.9. 
“Financial assurance” means the mechanisms used by a licensee to demonstrate that the funds 
necessary to meet the cost of closure, post closure maintenance and monitoring, and corrective 
action will be available whenever they are needed. 
2.10. 
“Licensee” unless specifically clarified with the rule, means a commodity handler or farm products 
dealer, including public warehouse operator, small-volume dealer, or cash buyer that must be 
licensed. 
2.11. 
“Public warehouse” - means an elevator, mill, warehouse, or other structure in which commodities 
are received from one or more members of the public for storage. 
2.12. 
“Small-volume commodity handler” means a person who has a fixed or established place of 
business in Colorado; engages in commodities handling; buys less than $250,000 worth of 
commodities and farm products per year from owners for processing or resale and does not 
purchase commodities for commercial feeding of livestock. 
2.13. 
“Small-volume dealer” means a person who does not qualify as a “dealer” under section 35-36-
102, (12)(a)(II) to 12(a)(V), C.R.S.; has a fixed or established place of business in Colorado; buys 
less than twenty thousand dollars worth of farm products or commodities, in aggregate, per year 
from the owners for processing or resale; and does not purchase farm products for commercial 
feeding of livestock. 
2.14. 
“Spoilage” means grain with quality deterioration due to moisture migrations, mold, insect 
damage, heat damage, or other factors. 
2.15. 
“Quality and quantity” means the legal, operational, managerial, and financial liability of the 
warehouse operator for any grain obligation(s), including company-owned grain, handled or 
stored by the warehouse operator.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-11 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
3 
Part 3 Initial and Renewal License Application Requirements and Documentation for a 
Commodity Handlers (Including a Public Warehouse) 
3.1. 
No person shall act as a commodity handler in the state of Colorado without having first obtained 
a license from the Department. The annual expiration date for a license is the last day of 
December. 
3.2. 
A new applicant must submit the most recent financial statement available when submitting an 
application for a new license. Once licensed, a commodity handler must submit an annual 
financial statement within 90 calendar days from the end of the commodity hander’s fiscal year. 
3.2.1. 
A small-volume commodity handler is exempt from the licensure requirements so long as 
they do not enter into credit-sale contracts. 
3.3. 
In addition to the application requirements set forth in the Act, a commodity handler applicant or 
licensee, including a public warehouse, must submit the following information with any new 
license application or application for renewal: 
3.3.1. 
The original copy of the surety bond or irrevocable letter of credit; 
3.3.2. 
An annual report on the status of all credit sales contracts that are currently open or have 
been completed or cancelled within one year from the date of the report. The report must 
contain the following information for each credit sales contract: 
• 
Name and contact information of the producer or owner; 
• 
Contract number; 
• 
Contract dollar amount; 
• 
Date the contract was signed by both parties; 
• 
Date the contract ends; 
• 
Status of the contract: open or closed; and 
• 
Aggregate total of outstanding payments 
3.3.3. 
A financial statement, consisting at a minimum of a balance sheet and income statement, 
that is prepared according to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); 
3.3.4. 
A public warehouse must submit evidence of minimum provisional insurance coverage; 
3.3.5. 
A public warehouse must submit a schedule of charges with a new license application. 
An amended schedule of charges must be submitted to the Department any time a 
change occurs. The schedule must contain: rates to be charged for storage, receiving, 
loadout, cleaning, drying, and any other charges applicable to the conditioning or 
processing of grain delivered to the warehouse. The schedule of charges also must set 
forth any minimum charges, shrinks, or time limits applicable to grain storage accounts. 
3.3.6. 
In addition to complying with all application requirements set forth in the Act, an applicant 
for a public warehouse license must demonstrate the following conditions before being 
issued a license:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-11 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
4 
• 
The flooring is steel or concrete, except for wooden elevators and raised aeration 
floors; 
• 
The sidewalls are rigid and self-supporting; 
• 
The space is immobile; 
• 
There is adequate means of entrance and exit to the storage space; and 
• 
The space is otherwise capable of maintaining the quantity and quality of grain 
stored in it. 
Part 4 Initial and Renewal License Application Requirements and Documentation for a Farm 
Product Dealer (Includes Cash Buyer, and Small-Volume Dealer) 
4.1. 
No person shall act as a farm product dealer in the state of Colorado without having first obtained 
a license from the Department. The annual expiration date for a license is the last day of 
December. 
4.2. 
In addition to the application requirements set forth in the Act, a farm products dealer applicant or 
licensee must submit the following information with any new license application or application for 
renewal: 
4.2.1. 
The original copy of the surety bond or irrevocable letter of credit. This requirement is not 
applicable to a cash buyer or small volume dealer; and 
4.2.2. 
A signed Cash Buyer Bond Declaration for any applicant or licensee applying to be a 
cash buyer. 
4.3. 
A farm product dealer who enters into credit sales contracts must submit the following additional 
documentation with any new license application or application for renewal: 
4.3.1. 
A financial statement consisting, at a minimum of a balance sheet and income statement 
that are prepared according to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); 
4.3.2. 
A new applicant must submit the most recent financial statement available when 
submitting an application for a new license. Once licensed, a farm products dealer must 
submit an annual financial statement within 90 calendar days from the end of the farm 
products dealer fiscal year; 
4.3.3. 
An annual report on the status of all credit-sale contracts that are currently open or have 
been completed or cancelled within one year from the date of the report. The report must 
contain the following information for each credit-sale contract: 
• 
Name and contact information of the producer or owner; 
• 
Contract number; 
• 
Contract dollar amount; 
• 
Date the contract was signed by both parties; 
• 
Date the contract ends; 
• 
Status of the contract: open or closed; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-11 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
5 
• 
Aggregate total of outstanding payments. 
Part 5 Capacity of Animal Feeding Operations 
5.1. 
The capacity of an animal feeding operation shall be determined by the total length of the 
operation’s feed bunks. In calculating the capacity, each linear foot of feed bunk shall equal one 
animal. 
Part 6 Requirements for Public Warehouse Operations-Facility Requirements, Storage Capacity 
and Emergency and Temporary Storage Requirements. 
6.1. 
Public Warehouse Operations. The public warehouse must ensure the facility conditions and 
equipment are suitable for the storing and shipping of commodities and must ensure: 
6.1.1. 
The physical condition of the public warehouse is able to protect against weather 
conditions that may cause deterioration of the commodities stored therein; 
6.1.2. 
The public warehouse possesses handling equipment that is in good working order and 
sufficient to transfer commodities safely into and out of the warehouse, and to otherwise 
maintain the quality of the commodity while in storage; 
6.1.3. 
The public warehouse possesses scales that are of sufficient capacity to efficiently and 
accurately weigh commodities into and out of the warehouse; and 
6.1.4. 
All areas of the public warehouse in which a commodity is stored can be safely measured 
during a Department examination. If any area of a public warehouse is unsafe to 
examine, only the area(s) the examiner can safely inspect will be included in the 
inventory of that examination. 
6.2. 
Facility Requirements. A public warehouse must comply with the following: 
6.2.1. 
Ensure all grain is stored in approved warehouse space; 
6.2.2. 
Store all grain in a manner that permits easy access for inspecting, sampling, measuring 
and identification; 
6.2.3. 
Allow for complete access to storage bins for inspection purposes by providing ladders 
and access to inspection doors and manways; 
6.2.4. 
Securely affix clearly discernible numbers to identify grain bins and other authorized 
licensed storage areas. Temporary and emergency storage must be numbered in such a 
manner that clearly shows the approved space; 
6.2.5. 
Maintain warehouse(s) in sound physical condition consistent with good warehousing 
practices; and 
6.2.6. 
Keep the warehouse and the property on which it is located clean and safe at all times. 
6.3. 
Storage Capacity. Approved storage space may be used only when all other licensing 
requirements have been met, and a public warehouse license has been issued by the 
Commissioner.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-11 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
6 
6.3.1. 
The licensed storage capacity of the public warehouse may be increased upon the 
Commissioner’s written verification that the space to be added meets all necessary 
requirements. Prior to using any additional space, the warehouse operator, based on the 
increased capacity, must increase stock insurance and its surety bond to the amounts 
required pursuant to sections 35-36-204, C.R.S., and 35-36-216(1)(a), C.R.S. 
6.3.2. 
The licensed storage capacity of the public warehouse may be decreased, or space 
deleted from a license. However, if the space is connected to other licensed space by 
grain transporting equipment, the Commissioner may consider the space as a single 
functional unit and require the space to remain licensed. 
6.4. 
Emergency and Temporary Storage. The public warehouse operator may, under the 
Commissioner’s sole discretion, license emergency or temporary storage space for commodities. 
The requirements for flooring, sidewalls, and immobility in Part 3.3.6 may be modified by the 
Commissioner for emergency or temporary storage on a case-by-case basis. Any request for 
such exemption must demonstrate adequate protection for any stored commodity. 
6.4.1. 
Prior to utilizing emergency or temporary space, a public warehouse operator must: 
• 
Submit a written request to the Department for the use of the emergency or 
temporary storage, including the location and the total bushel amount to be 
stored; 
• 
Operate the emergency and temporary storage space in conjunction with the 
licensed warehouse; 
• 
Meet all bonding, net worth, financial assurance and insurance requirements; 
• 
Provide access to the emergency and temporary storage space for examination 
purposes; 
• 
Maintain separate inventory records of each commodity stored in emergency and 
temporary storage space, as well as accounting for such commodities in the 
Daily Position Report; and 
• 
Provide notification to the Department of the date when all the commodities 
stored in temporary and emergency space have been removed. 
6.4.2. 
A public warehouse operator requesting the use of temporary storage, including but not 
limited to grain storage bags, must: 
• 
Use asphalt, concrete or other approved base materials; 
• 
Use rigid self-supporting sidewalls; 
• 
Provide adequate aeration; 
• 
Provide acceptable covering or tarp; 
• 
Provide written notification before reusing licensed temporary space for another 
crop year; and 
• 
Pick up all grain in temporary storage by July 1. Additional time to pick up grain 
may be requested so long as the grain is in adequate condition.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-11 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
7 
6.4.3. 
A public warehouse operator requesting the use of emergency storage must pick up all 
grain in emergency storage by May 1. Additional time to pick up grain in emergency 
storage may be requested so long as the grain to be picked up is still in adequate 
condition. 
Part 7 Bond Schedule - Alternative Bond Schedule Requirements 
7.1. 
Each licensee required to obtain a surety bond or irrevocable letter of credit must determine the 
minimum amount of coverage by the following methods: 
7.1.1. 
Commodity Handler: bond amounts must be determined by calculating 2% of the annual 
Colorado commodity purchases and transactions in the previous calendar year. 
Transactions include the value of brokered commodities. 
• 
Minimum bond of $10,000 
• 
Maximum bond of $1,000,000 
7.1.2. 
Commodity Handler (Public Warehouse) 
• 
$.10/bu. for grain storage capacity and/ or $.50/cwt of bean storage capacity. 
• 
Minimum bond of $25,000 
• 
Maximum bond of $1,000,000. 
7.1.3. 
Farm Products Dealers: bond amounts must be determined by calculating 2% of the 
annual Colorado farm product purchases and transactions in the previous calendar year. 
Transactions include the value of brokered farm products. 
• 
Minimum bond of $3,000 
• 
Maximum bond of $1,000,000 
• 
Farm products dealers: $5,000 minimum 
• 
Farm products brokers: $10,000 minimum 
• 
Farm products dealers dealing only in fruits and vegetables: $3,000 minimum 
7.1.4. 
Farm products Dealers with storage facilities: $10,000 minimum 
7.1.5. 
Farm Products Dealers purchasing only sugar beets: bond amounts must be determined 
by calculating 1% of the annual Colorado farm product purchases and transactions in the 
previous calendar year. 
7.2. 
If an applicant fails to file a bond or an irrevocable letter of credit meeting the requirements of 
section 11-35-101.5, C.R.S., within ninety (90) calendar days of the date of application, the 
application is void. The license fee will not be refunded. 
7.2.1. 
Any subsequent application for a license shall require a new license application and 
license fee.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-11 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
8 
7.3. 
A commodity handler or farm products dealer licensee may petition the Commissioner for a 
reduction in the required bond amount or irrevocable letter of credit. Licensees that are approved 
for a reduction may base their bond amounts by calculating 1% of the annual Colorado 
commodity or farm products purchases and transactions in the previous calendar year. To qualify, 
a licensee must meet the following requirements: 
7.3.1. 
Provide a written petition for a reduction in the required bond or irrevocable letter of credit 
amount that demonstrates their compliance with the requirements of Part 7.3; 
7.3.2. 
Have had a license, and been in good standing, for the previous three years, and have 
not had any verified claim and complaint on file with the CDA in the past three years; and 
7.3.3. 
Provide annual certified financial statements or an audit, prepared by a certified public 
accountant, that demonstrates the licensee meets the following financial criteria for the 
current year, plus the previous two years: 
• 
Current ratio (current assets / current liabilities) equal to at least 1.15:1. 
• 
Debt to equity ratio (total debt / total equity); less than .6:1 
• 
Positive working capital (current assets - current liabilities). 
7.3.4. 
A commodity handler or farm products dealer licensee that is unable to meet two of three 
financial criteria in Parts 7.3.3 may provide alternative documentation for consideration by 
the commissioner that adequately demonstrates a similar level of financial assurance and 
stability. Requirements in Parts 7.3.1 and 7.3.2 must be met and annual certified financial 
statements or an audit prepared by a certified public accountant as required in Part 7.3.3 
must be provided. 
7.3.5. 
The Commissioner shall approve or deny a request for a reduced bond amount in the 
Commissioner’s sole discretion. The Commissioner may consult with the Agriculture 
Commission. 
7.3.6. 
Licensees who are granted a bond or irrevocable letter of credit reduction must 
conspicuously post the approval from the commissioner. 
7.3.7. 
A reduction in the required bond or irrevocable letter of credit amount is not guaranteed 
even if all the requirements of Part 7.3 are met. Any reduced bond amount may be 
denied, awarded or revoked at the sole discretion of the Commissioner. 
7.3.8. 
A licensee must monitor their ability to qualify for a reduced bond or irrevocable letter of 
credit on a annual basis, and must notify the Commissioner if they no longer meet the 
requirements defined in Part 7.3. and must secure a new bond or irrevocable letter of 
credit in the amount required in Part 7.2. within 30 calendar days from the date of 
notification. 
7.3.9. 
An owner who sells a commodity to a small volume commodity handler who is exempt 
from the requirement to license as a commodity handler, as defined in section 35-36-
102(33), C.R.S., is not eligible to file a claim under section 35-36-216(1)(c)(I), C.R.S., for 
any loss or damage sustained from the sale of commodities to a small volume commodity 
handler exempt from licensing.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-11 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
9 
Part 8 Irrevocable Letters of Credit In Lieu Of Surety Bonds 
8.1. 
These rules shall apply to all irrevocable letters of credit that are submitted by licensees under the 
Act in lieu of a surety bond required by the Act as a condition of licensure. 
8.2. 
A licensee may submit an irrevocable letter of credit issued by a state or national bank, or by a 
state or federal savings and loan association doing business in Colorado, or by a bank for 
cooperatives organized pursuant to federal statutes, serving the region in which the state of 
Colorado is located, that currently meets all applicable minimum capital requirements imposed 
under state and/or federal law, in lieu of a surety bond required by the provisions of sections 35-
36-216, C.R.S., and 35-36-304, C.R.S. 
8.3. 
The beneficiary named in the letter of credit shall be the Colorado Commissioner of Agriculture in 
favor of the people of the state of Colorado. Payment shall be made immediately upon 
presentation of sight draft(s) signed by the Commissioner of Agriculture, or their designated 
representative, without accompanying supporting documentation. 
8.4. 
All letters of credit shall conform to the Commissioner’s standard letter of credit form. A standard 
letter of credit form is available upon request from the Division of Inspection and Consumer 
Services, Colorado Department of Agriculture, 305 Interlocken Parkway, Broomfield, CO 80021 
and available on the Department’s website at www.colorado.gov/ag/ics. 
8.5. 
A sight draft upon a letter of credit may be presented for payment for the reasons that surety 
bond proceeds may be demanded for disbursement under the provisions of Title 35, Article 36, 
C.R.S. 
8.6. 
Letters of credit shall have a term of three (3) years and shall be automatically renewable for 
additional one (1) year term. Any authorization of a shorter time period shall be at the sole 
discretion of the Commissioner or designee. A letter of credit may be revoked by the licensee or 
issuer only at its expiration date, and by giving the Commissioner at least one hundred twenty 
(120) calendar days written notice prior to the expiration date. Notice is deemed to have been 
given as of its receipt by the Commissioner. Upon such notice timely received, the licensee shall 
be required to arrange for substitution of a suitable surety bond or another irrevocable letter of 
credit that meets the requirements of Sections 35-36-216 and 35-36-304, C.R.S., at least sixty 
(60) days prior to the expiration of the letter of credit. If the Commissioner does not timely receive 
satisfactory evidence of such arrangements, the Commissioner may proceed in accordance with 
the provisions of sections 35-36-205(1)(e) or 35-36-306(1)(d), C.R.S., as applicable. 
8.7. 
If a licensee desires to surrender its license and requests the release of a letter of credit, the 
licensee must return its license and make written request by certified mail, return receipt 
requested, for the release of the letter of credit. The Commissioner shall retain the letter of credit 
for a period of 548 calendar days, approximately 18 months, following receipt of the written 
request and the returned license, or until such time that the Commissioner is satisfied that no 
claims against the licensee exist, before notice of release is transmitted to the issuer. 
8.8. 
In the event that a licensee desires to substitute a surety bond for a letter of credit, then in 
possession of the Commissioner, the letter of credit shall remain in force for a period of 548 
calendar days, approximately 18 months, following the effective date of the surety bond, or for 
such time as may be required to fully ascertain the existence of any claims against the licensee, 
whichever period is longer. Thereafter, notice of release shall be transmitted to the issuer of the 
letter credit.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-11 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
10 
8.9. 
In the event that a plurality of letters of credit from any number of issuers are presented in 
satisfaction of a licensee's bonding obligation, the Commissioner may satisfy claims under the 
applicable provisions of Title 35, Article 36, C.R.S., by presentment of sight drafts against one (1) 
or more such letters of credit, without regard to proration. 
8.10. 
A licensee shall be required to augment letters of credit in any situation where it would be 
required to increase its coverage under a surety bond. Such augmentation shall be 
commensurate to the increased surety bond coverage requirement. The new letter of credit 
issued in the new required amount may be substituted for a prior letter upon the renewal date of 
the prior letter. 
8.11. 
A licensee or prospective licensee may present any combination of letters of credit and surety 
bonds in satisfaction of its bonding requirement under the applicable provisions of Title 35, Article 
36, C.R.S. In making disbursements for claims, the Commissioner shall draw upon the letter(s) of 
credit first and make demand upon surety bond(s) second. 
Part 9 Requirements for Maintaining Records 
For the purposes of Article 36 of the Act, a commodity handler and farm products dealer shall maintain 
legible, accurate and complete records and systems of filing for the accounting of all transactions 
including scale tickets, settlement sheets, and daily position reports. 
9.1. 
Commodity Handlers 
9.1.1. 
Must maintain accurate and complete records at the place of business recorded on the 
license application. 
9.1.2. 
A commodity handler must maintain scale tickets issued in numerical sequence. 
9.1.3. 
Scale tickets must contain the following: 
• 
Scale ticket number; 
• 
Net weight; 
• 
Dockage; 
• 
Date; 
• 
Owner’s name; 
• 
Commodity handler’s name or small-volume commodity handler’s name; 
• 
Commodity test weight with dockage and grade, if applicable; 
• 
Gross weight; 
• 
Tare weight; and 
• 
Net weight. 
9.1.4. 
A commodity handler must maintain settlement sheets for each depositor. 
9.1.5. 
All settlement sheets must include the following information:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-11 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
11 
• 
The owner’s name and address; 
• 
The scale ticket numbers; 
• 
Total receipts of all commodities by type; 
• 
Total withdrawals; 
• 
Test weight and grade; 
• 
The date of deliveries; 
• 
The price per bushel or unit; 
• 
The date and amount of payment; and 
• 
If a credit sale contract is used, the credit sale contract number must be included 
in the settlement sheet. 
9.1.6. 
The Daily Position Report must, at the close of each business day, include an accurate 
and complete record of each kind and class of commodity based on source documents. 
In addition, it must include the following: 
• 
Total stocks by commodities received or loaded out; 
• 
Forwarding of commodities to terminal storage; 
• 
Conversions of whole commodities to feed; 
• 
Negotiable warehouse receipt obligations; 
• 
Open storage obligations for each kind and class of commodities; 
• 
Open credit-sale contracts; 
• 
Public-warehouse-owned commodities; and 
• 
If licensed as a public warehouse, the Daily Position Report must also include the 
total storage obligations. 
9.1.7. 
In addition to the Daily Position Report requirements in Part 9.1.6., a commodity handler 
licensed as a public warehouse must maintain the following additional documents: 
• 
A complete and accurate record of corrections and adjustments made to the 
Daily Position Report; 
• 
Records of each holder of a warehouse receipt; 
• 
Records of direct-shipment grain delivered directly from the owner to the 
purchaser; and 
• 
An accurate and complete accounting system of all money received and 
disbursed.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-11 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
12 
9.2. 
Farm Products Dealers 
9.2.1. 
Farm Products Dealers must maintain accurate and complete records at the place of 
business recorded on the license application. Such records must include: 
9.2.1.1. Any and all ledgers, books of accounts, memoranda, and other documents which 
relate to farm products purchases and storage transactions. Including: 
• 
Procurement contracts; 
• 
Sales contracts; 
• 
Credit-sale contracts; 
• 
Storage contracts; 
• 
Procurement Invoices; and 
• 
Sales Invoices. 
9.2.2. 
A current record of all farm products credit-sale contract obligations pursuant to section 
35-36-307, C.R.S., including all payments and unpaid balances. 
9.3. 
Commodity Handlers and Farm Products Dealer Records Inspections. 
9.3.1. 
All financial records, commodity handling records, farm product dealing records, and 
payment records must be available for inspection by the Department during ordinary 
business hours. 
9.3.2. 
Ordinary business hours are from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Mountain Standard Time, Monday 
through Friday, except holidays. 
Part 10 Financial Assurance Requirements 
A commodity handler and farm products dealer must maintain acceptable financial assurances as defined 
by the Commissioner in Part 2.8. 
10.1. 
A commodity handler and farm product dealer who offers credit-sale contracts must: 
10.1.1. Submit a financial statement within ninety (90) calendar days after fiscal year end that 
conforms to the applicable requirements of sections 35-36-204(1)(b) and 35-36-307(3), 
C.R.S. 
10.1.2. The Department may grant an extension of no more than sixty (60) calendar days, if 
requested in writing by a licensee or applicant prior to the date the financial statement is 
due. 
10.1.3. The financial statement must consist of the following documents prepared in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP): 
• 
A balance sheet; 
• 
A statement of income; and 
• 
Financial statement notes, if any.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-11 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
13 
10.1.4. If the financial statement is restated, recalculated, or republished, the licensee must notify 
the Department in writing within seven (7) calendar days. 
10.2. 
Commodity Handler-Public Warehouse 
10.2.1. In addition to the requirements in Part 10.1 of this rule, a public warehouse must also 
have and maintain a total allowable net worth of at least the amount obtained by 
multiplying $0.25 by the approved warehouse storage capacity in bushels or by 
multiplying $1.25 warehouse dry bean storage capacity in hundredweight. 
10.2.2. An Additional bond may be required if a public warehouse net worth falls below $0.25/bu. 
of grain storage capacity and/or $1.25/cwt bean storage capacity. 
Part 11 Negotiable Commodity Warehouse Receipts 
11.1. 
All negotiable commodity warehouse receipts. 
11.1.1. All negotiable commodity warehouse receipts shall be issued no later than the close of 
the next business day following demand by the depositor or depositor’s agent. 
11.1.2. All negotiable commodity warehouse receipts shall include the following information: 
• 
The person to whom the receipt is issued; 
• 
The location of the storing warehouse; 
• 
The storage rate; 
• 
The date issued; 
• 
The type of grain; 
• 
The grade and sub class of the grain; 
• 
The dock percentage; 
• 
The pounds of grain including dock; 
• 
The gross bushels; 
• 
The net pounds; 
• 
The net bushels; 
• 
The hundred weight (for grain sorghums); 
• 
The elevation charges prepaid per bushel in and out; 
• 
The date storage paid to; and 
• 
The signature of the warehouse operator or authorized agent for the warehouse 
operator. 
11.1.3. No more than one product, or grade or value of a product, shall be shown on a negotiable 
commodity warehouse receipt.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-11 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
14 
11.1.4. Any errors in a negotiable commodity warehouse receipt shall be corrected by 
cancellation and replacement of the receipt. No alterations shall be made to a negotiable 
commodity warehouse receipt after it is issued. 
11.1.5. A collateral negotiable commodity warehouse receipt cannot be issued for grain received 
under a credit-sale contract except for the percentage of bushels paid for through 
advances to the seller. The amount and percentage of advances shall be shown on the 
face of the credit-sale contract. 
11.1.6. No negotiable commodity warehouse receipt shall be canceled by a warehouse operator 
unless: 
• 
The product represented by the receipt has been removed from storage by the 
owner; or 
• 
The product has been purchased and paid for; or 
• 
A replacement receipt is issued at the time the receipt is canceled; or 
• 
The product represented by the receipt is purchased under a properly executed 
credit-sale contract. 
11.2. 
Paper negotiable commodity warehouse receipts. 
11.2.1. When a commodity represented by a paper negotiable commodity warehouse receipt is 
delivered to the holder of that receipt, or purchased by the warehouse, the receipt shall 
be marked “canceled,” signed or initialed, and dated by the commodity warehouse 
operator. The receipt shall include the check number, invoice reference, or credit-sale 
contract reference number as applicable. The commodity warehouse operator shall 
retain, in a separate file, all receipts cancelled by the operator. At the time of inspection 
or examination by the Department, the warehouse operator shall present the receipts to 
be canceled by the Department. 
11.2.2. If only a portion of the commodity represented by a paper negotiable commodity 
warehouse receipt is delivered, the receipt shall be dated, signed or initialed, and marked 
“canceled” by the commodity warehouse operator. A new receipt shall be issued covering 
the balance of the commodity remaining in storage the same day as the original receipt is 
canceled. The new receipt shall specify the balance of the remaining commodity and the 
number(s) of the prior receipt(s). 
11.2.3. To cancel a paper negotiable commodity warehouse receipt, a commodity warehouse 
operator shall mark the face of the receipt “canceled,” sign or initial, and date it, and 
record the disposition of the receipt, including the check number or contract number as 
applicable. 
11.2.4. A commodity warehouse operator whose license has been relinquished or revoked shall 
return all unissued paper negotiable commodity warehouse receipts to the Department 
within thirty (30) days of such action.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-11 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
15 
11.2.5. When a commodity warehouse operator’s license has been relinquished or revoked, all 
stored commodities for which negotiable commodity paper warehouse receipts or scale 
tickets have been issued shall be either purchased and paid for or returned to their 
holders, within thirty (30) days, except when the warehouse continues operation under 
new ownership, the storage obligations are assumed by another licensee, or the 
warehouse is placed in receivership. Upon completion of delivery to a receipt holder or 
the reissuance of a receipt under a new license, the commodity warehouse operator shall 
immediately mark “canceled,” sign or initial, and date the original receipt on its face, and 
forward such receipt to the Department. When the storage obligations are assumed by a 
new licensee, new negotiable commodity warehouse receipts shall be issued under the 
new licensee name for all open receipts. 
11.2.6. No commodity represented by a paper negotiable commodity warehouse receipt shall be 
delivered until the original receipt is returned to the commodity warehouse operator. 
11.2.7. If a paper negotiable commodity warehouse receipt has been destroyed or lost by the 
commodity warehouse operator, the operator shall prepare a notarized affidavit in 
duplicate stating that the receipt was lost or destroyed and specifying the date that such 
loss or destruction occurred. The affidavit shall state that no obligation is due any person 
under that paper receipt. The affidavit shall be held in lieu of the original copy of the 
receipt. If the lost receipt is found, it shall be forwarded immediately to the Department for 
cancellation. If a depositor’s name is on the receipt, the commodity warehouse operator 
shall also obtain a written statement from the depositor that confirms that the depositor 
has received or been paid for the commodity and that the depositor has no further claim 
against said receipt. 
11.3. 
Electronic negotiable commodity warehouse receipts. 
11.3.1. Prior to entering into an agreement with an electronic commodity warehouse receipt 
provider to issue such receipts, a commodity warehouse operator must provide a copy of 
the proposed agreement to the Department for review and approval. A commodity 
warehouse operator shall not issue electronic negotiable commodity warehouse receipts 
until and unless the Department approves its agreement with an electronic commodity 
warehouse receipt provider and notifies the operator of such approval. 
11.3.2. In order to be approved by the Department, an electronic commodity warehouse receipt 
provider agreement shall: 
• 
Provide for the Department to become a joint holder on all open electronic 
negotiable commodity warehouse receipts if the issuing commodity warehouse 
operator’s license is relinquished or revoked; 
• 
Require the provider to provide security as required by its provider agreement 
with the USDA regarding on-site security, data authorization, security plans, and 
facility vulnerability; 
• 
Prohibit the provider from deleting or altering any electronic negotiable 
commodity warehouse receipts in the centralized filing system unless such 
actions are authorized by the Department; 
• 
Require the provider to maintain all electronic negotiable commodity warehouse 
receipts in secure data storage for a period of six (6) years after their cancellation 
dates;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-11 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
16 
• 
Require the provider to provide the Department free unrestricted access to the 
centralized filing system and related backup files; and 
• 
Require the provider, when a commodity warehouse operator changes providers, 
to supply the new provider and the warehouse operator with a complete list of all 
the current holders of open electronic negotiable commodity warehouse receipts 
prior to the intended transfer date. 
11.3.3. Commodity warehouse operators may change providers only once a year unless 
otherwise permitted by the Department. 
11.3.4. A commodity warehouse operator shall notify the Department thirty (30) calendar days 
prior to the intended date of any transfer to a new provider. Such notification shall include 
the exact date of the proposed transfer. The operator must also, thirty (30) days prior to 
the intended transfer date, send notices of the change to the holders of all open 
electronic negotiable commodity warehouse receipts. The notices shall specify the date 
and time period during which access to receipts will not be available. 
11.3.5. When a commodity warehouse operator’s license has been relinquished or revoked, all 
stored commodities for which negotiable commodity electronic warehouse receipts have 
been issued shall be either purchased and paid for or returned to their holders, within 
thirty (30) days, except when the warehouse continues operation under new ownership, 
the storage obligations are assumed by another licensee, or the warehouse is placed in 
receivership. Upon completion of delivery to a receipt holder or the reissuance of a 
receipt under a new license, the commodity warehouse operator shall immediately cancel 
the receipt. 
Part 12 Requirements for Credit-Sale Contracts 
12.1. 
When a farm products dealer, small-volume farm products dealer, or commodity handler issues a 
credit-sale contract, the contract must include the following, which is in addition to the 
requirements in section 35-36-207(1) and 35-36-307(1) C.R.S.: 
• 
The signature of the producer or the owner; 
• 
The signature of the commodity handler or farm products dealer’s authorized agent, and 
• 
A completion date, or date payment is due. 
12.2. 
When a farm products dealer or small-volume dealer receives farm products for which payment 
has not been made, the farm products dealer or small-volume dealer, within thirty (30) calendar 
days after the receipt of such farm products, shall provide the producer or owner of the farm 
products with a credit-sale contract containing the statement: “this contract constitutes a voluntary 
extension of credit by the owner to the dealer or small-volume dealer. The surety bond or 
irrevocable letter of credit of the dealer or small-volume dealer may not completely protect the 
owner from financial loss in the event of a failure of the dealer or small-volume dealer.” Such 
statement shall be conspicuously printed on the first page of the contract, in the same font and 
font size as the majority of the text in the contract.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-11 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
17 
12.3. 
When a commodity handler receives commodities for which payment has not been made, the 
commodity handler, within thirty (30) calendar days after the receipt of such commodities, shall 
provide the producer or owner of the commodities with a credit-sale contract containing the 
statement: “this contract constitutes a voluntary extension of credit by the owner to the commodity 
handler. The surety bond or irrevocable letter of credit of the commodity handler may not 
completely protect the owner from financial loss in the event of a failure of the commodity 
handler.” Such statement shall be conspicuously printed on the first page of the contract, in the 
same font and font size as the majority of the text within the contract. 
12.4. 
A commodity handler issuing credit sale contracts shall maintain positive working capital and a 
current ratio equal to or greater than one-to-one. 
12.5. 
When a dealer, small-volume dealer, or commodity handler reaches the completion date, or the 
date payment is due on a credit-sale contract, for which payment has not been made, a new 
contract shall be entered into. 
Part 13 Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose 
A. 
Adopted November 1, 2007 – Effective December 30, 2007 
Statutory Authority: 
These Rules pertaining to the administration and enforcement of the Farm Products and Commodity 
Handler Acts, § 12-16-101 - 223, C.R.S., are proposed for adoption by the Commissioner pursuant to his 
authority in § 12-16-117(1) C.R.S. and § 12-16-210(1), C.R.S. 
Purpose: 
The purposes of these rules are to implement the statutory changes to the Farm Products and 
Commodity Handler Acts which required the Commissioner to: (1) establish rules to determine the 
capacity of animal feeding operations; and (2) establish rules to specify the licensure dates of a dealer, 
small volume dealer, agent, and commodity handler. 
Factual Basis: 
1. 
Sections 12-16-103(4)(a)(V) and 12-16-202(4.5)(a)(V), C.R.S. (2007), require the Commissioner 
to establish rules to determine the capacity of animal feeding operations. Factual information 
provided by the industry and Iowa State University support the use of one linear foot of feed bunk 
per animal to calculate such capacity. 
2. 
Sections 12-16-104 (4) and 12-16-203 (2), C.R.S. (2007) require the Commissioner to specify by 
rule the expiration dates of dealer, small volume dealer, agent, and commodity handler licenses. 
B. 
Adopted April 9, 2013 – Effective January 1, 2014 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 
The Commissioner's authority for the adoption of this permanent rule amendment is set forth in § § 12-16-
104(4), § 35-16- 206(2) and § 35-1-107(5)(a), C.R.S. 
PURPOSE: 
The purpose of this permanent rule amendment is to amend Section 2 to change the expiration date for a 
dealer, small volume dealer, agent and commodity handler license from the last day of February to 
December 31.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-11 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
18 
FACTUAL AND POLICY BASIS: 
The factual and policy issues pertaining to the adoption of this permanent rule amendment are as follows: 
1. 
This change is necessary to allow the Department to consolidate licensing functions to one time 
per year for all licenses issued by the ICS Division. 
2. 
The Department of Agriculture is moving its licensing functions from a paper based system to an 
online system. To accommodate licensee’s who hold multiple licenses with the Department of 
Agriculture, we are establishing a common licensing date so a licensee can obtain all their 
licenses in one transaction. 
C. 
Adopted June 11, 2014 - Effective July 30, 2014 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 
The Commissioner's authority for the adoption of these rule amendments are set forth in Sections 12-16-
104(4), 12-16-110.5(1)(e), 12-16-117(1), 12-16-206(2), 12-16-208(1)(f), 12-16-210(1), 12-16-211(4) and 
35-1-107(5)(a), C.R.S. 
PURPOSE: 
The purposes of these rule amendments are to: 
1. 
Create a new Part 4 to require a statement in a credit sales contract that warns a producer that 
entering into such a contract entails a risk that the bond may not completely protect the producer 
from loss in the event of a failure of the dealer, small volume dealer, or commodity handler. 
2. 
Create a new Part 5 to consolidate the rules that applied to letters of credit and create uniformity 
between bonds and letters of credit so the process and timelines for both are the same, and to 
accept letters of credit issued by a farm credit administration bank for cooperatives. 
3. 
Create a new Part 6.1 to regulate the issuance, of all negotiable commodity warehouse receipts. 
Provide for the correct issuance, transfer and cancellation of all negotiable commodity warehouse 
receipts. 
4. 
Create a new Part 6.2 to establish regulations specific to the issuance, transfer and cancellation 
of paper negotiable commodity warehouse receipts. 
5. 
Create a new Part 6.3 to establish regulations specific to the issuance, transfer and cancellation 
of electronic negotiable commodity warehouse receipts. 
Factual and Policy Basis: 
The factual and policy issues pertaining to the adoption of this permanent rule amendment are as follows: 
1. 
House Bill 13-1034 amended Sections 12-16-110.5 and 12-16-208, C.R.S. to require the 
commissioner to specify a statement by rule that warns a producer that entering into a credit 
sales contract entails a risk that the bond may not completely protect the producer from loss in 
the event of a failure of the dealer, small volume dealer, or commodity handler. This bill also 
extended the timeline for a warehouse to issue a credit sales contract from sixty (60) days to 
thirty (30) days.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-11 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
19 
2. 
Rule 8 CCR 1202-08 was struck and reinstated into rule 8 CCR 1202-11 with amendments. 
House Bill 13-1034 amended Sections 12-16-106 and 12-16-218 C.R.S. to change the liability of 
bonds and letters of credit from twenty four (24) months to one hundred eighty (180) days and 
created uniformity between bonds and letters of credit so the process and timeliness for both are 
the same. The current Department letter of credit form and Section 11-35-101.5 C.R.S. both allow 
for the acceptance of letters of credit issued by a farm credit administration bank for cooperatives. 
3. 
House Bill 13-1034 amended Section 12-16-211, C.R.S. the amendment allows for the use of 
negotiable electronic negotiable commodity warehouse receipts in addition to paper negotiable 
commodity warehouse receipts. Prior to HB 13-1034, only paper negotiable commodity 
warehouse receipts were allowed to be used. Going forward an owner of commodities can use 
both paper and electronic negotiable warehouse receipts. These rules are needed to regulate the 
issuance, use, and records requirements of both paper and electronic negotiable warehouse 
receipts. 
4. 
House Bill 13-1034 amended Section 12-16-211(2), C.R.S. the amendment allows for the 
issuance of paper negotiable commodity warehouse receipts and makes the Department the sole 
source of paper negotiable warehouse receipts. The amendment requires the Department to 
furnish these receipts at cost to licensed warehouse operators. Since paper negotiable 
warehouse receipts are a physical document there is a difference in how paper and electronic 
warehouse receipts are handled by the owner of commodities and the warehouse operator. 
These rules are needed to regulate the issuance, use, and records requirements of paper 
negotiable warehouse receipts. 
5. 
House Bill 13-1034 amended Section 12-16-211(3), C.R.S. the amendment allows for the 
issuance of electronic negotiable commodity warehouse receipts generated by a vendor 
approved by the United States Department of Agriculture instead of paper negotiable warehouse 
receipts. These rules are needed to ensure data is secure, not changed inappropriately and only 
released to authorized parties. These rules are also needed to ensure the centralized filing 
system is operated by an approved neutral third party vendor in a confidential and secure fashion 
independent of any outside influence or bias in action or appearance. 
D. 
Adopted June 9, 2021 – Effective July 30, 2021 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY 
The Commissioner’s statutory authority for the adoption of this permanent rule amendment is set forth in 
section 35-36-103(1), C.R.S. 
PURPOSE 
The purpose of this rulemaking is to comply with program changes as a result of a Sunset Review and 
subsequent changes in House Bill 20-1213. Section 35-36-103(1), C.R.S., requires the Commissioner to 
conduct specific rulemaking. This rulemaking revision includes: new requirements for license applications, 
new requirements for public warehouse operations and storage, a new bond schedule including 
alternative rates for qualifying licensees, new recordkeeping requirements, and new requirements for 
credit sales contracts. Additionally, this rulemaking provides a definition section for improved clarity and 
uniformity of terms.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-11 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
20 
FACTUAL AND POLICY BASIS 
This rulemaking is required by section 35-36-103(1), C.R.S., and is based on stakeholder input. The 
purported changes to the license application requirements, public warehouse operations and storage 
requirements, bond schedules, recordkeeping requirements and credit-sale contracts requirements will 
provide added protection for consumers and producers in the industry. The added definition section 
provides clarity and uniformity throughout the program. 
E. 
Adopted November 10, 2021 – Effective December 30, 2021 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY 
The Commissioner’s statutory authority for the adoption of this permanent rule amendment is set forth in 
section 35-36-103(1), C.R.S. 
PURPOSE 
The purpose of this rule making is to clarify the definitions of the terms Commodity Handler and Dealer to 
properly align with 35-36-102, C.R.S. 
FACTUAL AND POLICY BASIS 
This rulemaking clarifies the definitions of the terms Commodity Handler and Dealer so they are the same 
as the definitions in section 35-36-102(8) and (12), C.R.S. respectively. The updated definition section 
provides clarity and uniformity throughout statute and rule. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 12/30/2007. 
Parts 2, 4.B eff. 01/01/2014. 
Entire rule eff. 07/30/2014. 
Entire rule eff. 07/30/2021. 
Parts 2, 13 E eff. 12/30/2021.
