---
id: "8_CCR_1507-11"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1507-11"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=10408&fileName=8%20CCR%201507-11&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1507-11. 8 CCR 1507-11

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
8 CCR 1507-11 
FIRE SUPPRESSION PROGRAM 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
SECTION 1 
INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND INFORMATION 
The Colorado Fire Suppression System Program began on January 1, 1991. It was created by Senate Bill 
90 4, which was signed into law on May 18, 1990. The purpose of the Colorado Fire Suppression 
Program is to ensure that life safety systems, installed in commercial and residential occupancies, are 
installed and maintained properly, according to nationally recognized standards. 24-33.5-1204.5, C.R.S. 
establishes the authority to promulgate rules and regulations to administer the fire suppression program 
and to establish fees and charges necessary to defray the anticipated costs of the program. 
SECTION 2 
DEFINITIONS 
The definitions provided in 24-33.5-1202, C.R.S., apply to these rules and regulations. The following 
additional definitions also apply: 
2.1 
APPRENTICE: - means an individual who installs sprinkler systems under the guidance and 
instruction of a registered Sprinkler Fitter. 
2.2 
AUTHORITY HAVING JURISDICTION (AHJ): - means the Division, unless delegated to a Local 
Authority Having Jurisdiction having Fire Suppression Systems Inspectors certified to the 
appropriate level. 
2.3 
CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION (OR REGISTRATION): means the document issued to a 
contractor under these Rules authorizing a contractor to conduct business in this state. 
2.4 
CERTIFICATE OF ROUGH INSTALLATION (CORI): - Means a record of installation documented 
in a format prescribed by the DFPC which asserts that the system has been installed in 
accordance with the State of Colorado’s Codes, Standards, Rules and Regulations pertinent to 
Fire Suppression systems. The CORI must accompany a complete set of the design documents 
created by the design professional in accordance with Section 6.2.5 of these rules. Where the 
AHJ is not conducting inspections, the CORI must include a signed attestation from a State of 
Colorado certified PREMANUFACTURED SYSTEM FIRE SUPPRESSION SPECIAL 
INSPECTOR asserting that the inspector has verified that the fire suppression system has been 
inspected and complies with the presented system documents. 
2.5 
COMPANY: means a corporation, partnership, firm or association, two or more persons having a 
joint or common interest, or any other legal or commercial entity. 
2.6 
CEU: - means continuing education units. Each 10 hours of related professional development 
activities equals one CEU. 
2.7 
DEFICIENCY: - means for the purposes of inspection, testing, and maintenance of Fire 
Suppression Systems, a condition that will or has the potential to adversely impact the 
performance of a system or portion thereof but does not rise to the level of an impairment. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-11 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
2 
2.8 
DIRECTOR: - means the Director of the Division, or his designee. 
2.9 
DIVISION: - means the Colorado Division of Fire Prevention and Control. 
2.10 
FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEM: - means an assembly of any or all of the following: piping 
valves, conduits, dispersal openings, sprinkler heads, orifices, and other similar devices that 
convey extinguishing agents for the purpose of controlling, confining, or extinguishing fire, with 
the exception of multipurpose residential fire sprinkler systems in one- and two-family dwellings 
and townhouses that are part of the potable water supply, pre-engineered range hoods, duct 
systems, and portable fire extinguishers. 
2.11 
FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM: - means a Fire Suppression System consisting of integrated piping, 
valves, sprinklers, and water supplies designed to be activated by the heat of a fire and discharge 
water over the fire area. 
2.12 
ICC: - means the International Code Council. 
2.13 
IMPAIRMENT: - means a condition where a Fire Suppression System or unit or portion thereof is 
out of order, and the condition can result in the Fire Suppression System or unit not functioning in 
a fire event. 
2.14 
INDIVIDUAL (OR PERSON): means a person, including an owner, manager, officer, employee, 
or individual. 
2.15 
INSPECTION, TESTING, AND MAINTENANCE SERVICE: means a service program provided by 
a qualified contractor or qualified property owner’s representative in which all components unique 
to the property’s systems are inspected and tested at the required times and necessary 
maintenance is provided. 
2.16 
INSTALLATION: means the initial placement of equipment or the extension, modification, or 
alteration of equipment after the initial placement. 
2.17 
LOCAL AUTHORITY HAVING JURISDICTION: means the fire chief, fire marshal or other 
designated official of a county, municipality, or special district that has fire code enforcement 
responsibilities. 
2.18 
MAINTENANCE: means to sustain in a condition of repair that will allow performance as originally 
designed or intended. 
2.19 
MAJOR ALTERATION: - A change in the occupancy, hazard, water supply, storage commodity, 
storage arrangement, building modification, or other condition that affects the installation criteria 
of a suppression system. 
2.20 
MULTIPURPOSE RESIDENTIAL FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEM: - means a residential Fire 
Suppression System intended to serve both domestic and fire protection needs, utilizing a 
common piping system supplying both domestic plumbing fixtures and fire sprinklers which does 
not contain a cross connection control device in the system piping. This does not include Passive 
Purge Systems as defined by NFPA 13D. A multipurpose system may also be referred to as a 
combination system or network system. 
2.21 
NICET: means the National Institute for Certification in Engineering Technologies. 
2.22 
NFPA: means the National Fire Protection Association.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-11 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
3 
2.23 
PERMIT: - means a construction permit for a fire protection system issued by the Division or a 
certified Fire Suppression System Inspector once construction plans or shop drawings have been 
approved or approved with corrections. A permit allows a registered fire suppression contractor to 
install or modify Fire Suppression Systems, appurtenances, and equipment as shown on the 
approved drawings. 
2.24 
PREMANUFACTURED SYSTEM: - Means a fire suppression system (or components thereof) 
manufactured, assembled, or tested at a centralized manufacturing location prior to being 
transported to its final installation site which is within the boundaries of the State of Colorado. 
2.25 
PREMANUFACTURED SYSTEM FIRE SUPPRESSION SPECIAL INSPECTOR: - Means an 
individual who has complied with the requirements for certification as a FIRE INSPECTOR II as 
outlined in 8 CCR 1507-101 but does not comply with Section 4.2.2 C. of said Regulation 
because there is no direct employment relationship with a State of Colorado AHJ responsible for 
providing fire inspection or plan review services. 
2.26 
PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER: - means an individual licensed as an engineer and working within 
competence, training and/or education pertinent to the fire sprinkler industry. 
2.27 
RESPONSIBLE MANAGING EMPLOYEE (RME): - means an individual or person engaged by a 
fire suppression contractor who is currently a professional engineer or certified by the National 
Institute for Certification in Engineering Technologies (NICET) at a level III or level IV in fire 
protection engineering technologies, automatic sprinkler layout, or another nationally recognized 
organization approved by the Division. 
2.28 
RESIDENTIAL FIRE SUPPRESSION CONTRACTOR: - means a fire suppression contractor 
that, individually or through others, offers to undertake, represents itself as being able to 
undertake, or does undertake to sell, lay out, fabricate, install, modify, alter, repair, maintain, or 
perform maintenance inspections of a residential Fire Suppression System. 
2.29 
RESIDENTIAL FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEM: - means a Fire Suppression System designed 
for or installed in a one- or two-family dwelling or townhouse that is not regulated by the Colorado 
board of plumbers. 
2.30 
SERVICE (OR REPAIR): means to repair in order to return the system to proper operational 
condition. 
2.31 
SMALL PROJECT: - means any modification to an existing suppression system which has no 
adverse effect on the integrity of the existing fire protection system, including the hydraulic 
design, and which involves the addition or relocation of no more than 20 sprinkler heads. 
2.32 
SPRINKLER FITTER: - means a person other than an apprentice who is registered with the 
administrator and who installs fire sprinkler systems. “Sprinkler Fitter” does not include a person 
who performs maintenance and repair on Fire Suppression Systems as a part of being a direct 
employee or operator of the building. A Sprinkler Fitter does not include a person who performs 
work exclusively on cross-connection control devices or a person who performs work exclusively 
on an underground system. “Sprinkler Fitter” does not include a person performing work on his or 
her own home. 
2.33 
TOTAL PROJECT VALUATION: - means the construction cost of the project, including materials 
and labor, for which the permit is being issued. Such valuation of construction cost is equal to the 
cost of the project as demonstrated by detailed estimates provided by the Permit applicant.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-11 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
4 
2.34 
UNDERGROUND SUPPLY LINE: - means the piping and appurtenances downstream from the 
system installed and maintained by the municipal water supply which supplies water to the Fire 
Suppression System. 
SECTION 3 
FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEM CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION 
3.1 
Registration Required 
3.1.1 
Any individual or company that employs individuals who physically work on, design, test, 
inspect, or install any part of a Fire Suppression System, including underground supply 
lines from public water lines to system risers and backflow preventers, must be 
registered. 
Exemptions: 
1. 
Public utilities installing underground supply lines for which they remain 
responsible to maintain and repair after initial installation. 
2. 
Building owners conducting maintenance on their fire protection systems under 
the provisions of NFPA 25 and filing reports with the local fire department having 
certified Fire Suppression System Inspectors or the Division. This exception does 
not apply to work conducted on system components that would require licensing, 
registration, or certification under any state or federal laws or regulations. 
3. 
An individual who installs a system in his or her single family residence (owner 
occupied) that is designed by a registered contractor and installed in accordance 
with NFPA 13D standards, and meets all local requirements. 
4. 
Individuals or companies installing pre-engineered range hoods and duct 
extinguishing systems. 
5. 
Individuals or companies that install, maintain, repair, or test Multipurpose 
Residential Fire Sprinkler Systems or other systems that would be classified as 
plumbing under these Rules and the definitions specified by the Colorado State 
Board of Plumbers in CRS Title 12, Article 58. 
3.2 
Specific Registrations 
3.2.1 
Individuals or companies performing work in accordance with Section 3.1 on Fire 
Suppression Systems in commercial, civil, or residential occupancies must be registered 
as “FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEM CONTRACTOR.” 
3.2.2 
Individuals or companies performing work in accordance with Section 3.1 on Fire 
Suppression Systems only in residential occupancies must be registered as 
“RESIDENTIAL FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEM CONTRACTOR.” 
3.2.3 
Individuals or companies installing Underground Supply Lines from public water lines to 
system risers must be registered as “FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEM CONTRACTOR – 
UNDERGROUND.” 
3.2.4 
Individuals or companies conducting installation, maintenance, service or testing of 
backflow prevention devices installed on fire sprinkler systems must be registered as 
“FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEM CONTRACTOR – BACKFLOW.”

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-11 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
5 
3.2.5 
Individuals or companies performing work on a Premanufactured system to be installed in 
Colorado subject to regulation by the State of Colorado’s adopted Codes, Standards, 
Rules, and Regulations must be registered as “FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEM 
CONTRACTOR - PREMANUFACTURED” 
3.3 
Registration Application Requirements 
In order to register, each contractor operating in Colorado must understand, agree, and attest to 
the following: 
3.3.1 
That the applicant must carry general liability insurance in the amount of at least $1 
million that includes products and completed operations coverage related to the 
installation of Fire Suppression Systems. 
Exemption: Government entities serving as contractors on their own wholly owned 
properties. 
3.3.2 
That the applicant is a principal of the company as defined in Colorado Revised Statutes 
24 33.5 1202(8.4), C.R.S., which has been recorded with the Colorado Secretary of 
State's Office. 
Exemption: Government entities serving as contractors on their own wholly owned 
properties. 
3.3.3 
That all information included on the application is complete and correct. 
3.3.4 
That the applicant will notify the Division within 30 days of any changes that occur in the 
information provided, including but not limited to: a change in responsible managing 
employee or principal agent of the contractor; a change in address, telephone number, or 
e-mail address; or a change in insurance coverage. 
3.3.5 
That the applicant has read, understands, and will comply with Colorado Revised 
Statutes governing Fire Suppression Systems; all applicable rules, codes, and standards 
adopted by the Division; and all codes, ordinances and resolutions adopted by 
municipalities, counties and fire protection districts in which they work. 
3.3.6 
That the applicant must not perform any installation or maintenance work on a Fire 
Suppression System in Colorado until such time as their registration has been formally 
issued by the Division. 
3.4 
Registration Application and Renewal Procedures 
3.4.1 
An applicant must apply for registration in a format provided by the Division. Application 
instructions are available on the Division’s website (www.colorado.gov/dfpc); from the 
Division’s offices at 700 Kipling St, Suite 4100, Denver, CO 80215; or by telephone at 
303-239-4100. 
3.4.2 
An applicant must submit the completed application along with the registration fees and 
all required supporting documentation prior to action by the Division. No cash payments 
will be accepted.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-11 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
6 
3.4.3 
An applicant must submit documentation of general liability insurance in the amount of at 
least $1 million that includes products and completed operations coverage related to the 
installation of Fire Suppression Systems. The documentation submitted must identify 
inclusion and exclusions of the coverage including any restrictions on the types of 
systems to be insured. 
3.4.4 
An applicant must submit proof of existence and good standing of the applicant with the 
Secretary of State. 
3.4.5 
New applicants must submit a completed and notarized Affidavit of Legal Residency as 
required in 24-76.5-103(4)(b), C.R.S. The affidavit must have been executed within 30 
days of the submittal of the application. 
3.5 
Duration of Registration 
3.5.1 
The registration period for new and renewal registrations will expire on December 31st 
each year regardless of when the registration was issued, unless earlier suspended or 
revoked. There will be no pro-rating of registration fees. 
3.5.2 
Applications for renewal shall be submitted no more than 30 days prior to expiration, A 
grace period for renewal may be extended for up to 30 days after expiration, after which a 
late application fee will be assessed. 
3.5.3 
All applications for registration shall have no longer than 30 days from the original 
submittal to correct deficiencies in their application including missing materials or fees. 
Applications older than 30 days with outstanding deficiencies will be considered vacated 
applications and the fees surrendered. 
3.5.4 
Applicants submitting more than 60 days after expiration shall submit all documentation 
required of a new applicant in addition to any required documentation for their renewal 
application. 
3.6 
Specific Requirements for Fire Suppression System Contractors 
3.6.1 
A Fire Suppression Contractor must engage a Responsible Managing Employee, 
3.6.2 
Contractors without a RME on staff shall employ on staff an individual qualified in the 
layout, fabrication, installation, alteration, servicing, repair, and inspection of fire 
suppression systems. A registered sprinkler fitter may be utilized to meet this 
requirement. 
3.6.3 
Fire Suppression System Contractors regulated by these Rules must not allow a person 
to work on a fire sprinkler system who is not registered with the Division as a Sprinkler 
Fitter. 
Exemption: Persons who are enrolled in a sprinkler fitter apprenticeship program and are 
under the direct supervision and immediate presence of a registered Sprinkler Fitter may 
perform work on a Fire Suppression System. 
3.7 
Specific Requirements for Residential Fire Suppression System Contractors 
3.7.1 
A Residential Fire Suppression System Contractor must engage a RME.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-11 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
7 
3.7.2 
Contractors without a RME on staff shall employ on staff an individual with demonstrated 
knowledge of suppression systems to serve as primary technical point of contact for the 
contractor. 
3.7.3 
Knowledge may be demonstrated by successful completion of residential sprinkler 
system training, completion of NFPA 13D related coursework, or other residential 
suppression system training as approved by the Division. A registered sprinkler fitter may 
be utilized to meet this requirement. 
Codes and Standards Assessment (CSA) Sprinkler Residential On-Site Competent 
Person Exam (ASR2) or Sprinkler Commercial/Residential On-Site Competent Person 
(ASCR2) satisfies this experience requirement. 
3.7.4 
For contractors installing CPVC or PEX piping systems, the applicant must provide a 
certificate of successful completion of the applicable training course issued by the 
manufacturer or their representative to the contractor’s employed fitter(s) intending to 
work on and install these systems. 
3.7.5 
Before installing a pre-engineered residential Fire Suppression System, applicants must 
demonstrate that they are authorized and certified by the system manufacturer to install 
that specific residential Fire Suppression System. 
3.8 
Specific Requirements for Fire Suppression System Contractors-Backflow 
3.8.1 
A Fire Suppression System Contractor-Backflow must employ cross-connection control 
technicians holding valid certification from the American Society of Sanitary Engineering 
(ASSE), the American Backflow Prevention Association (ABPA), or the Association of 
Boards of Certification (ABC), in conformance with requirements set forth by the 
Colorado Primary Drinking Water Regulations. 
3.9 
Specific Requirements for Fire Suppression System Contractors-Underground 
3.9.1 
Upon initial application or renewal, Fire Suppression System Contractors-Underground 
will attest that all personnel performing work on fire suppression systems have received 
training on and retain copies available for use of NFPA 13, NFPA 22, and NFPA 24, as 
adopted by the Division in 8 CCR 1507-101, and a copy of these Fire Suppression 
Program Rules. 
3.9.2 
All Fire Suppression System Contractors-Underground personnel shall at all times have 
access on the worksite to copies of NFPA 13, NFPA 22, and NFPA 24, as adopted by the 
Division in 8 CCR 1507-101, and a copy of these Fire Suppression Program rules. 
3.9.3 
Upon initial application or renewal, Fire Suppression Contractors-Underground will attest 
that until they release responsibility for the underground fire main installation to the 
owner, they will not allow any fire suppression system to be connected to the 
underground fire main by any person not registered with the Division as a Fire 
Suppression System Contractor, unless said person is exempt from registration by 
Section 3.1.1 of these rules. 
3.10 
Specific requirements for Fire Suppression System Contractor – Premanufactured 
3.10.1 Fire Suppression System Contractor – Premanufactured must employ or contract with a 
State of Colorado Certified PREMANUFACTURED SYSTEM FIRE SUPPRESSION 
SPECIAL INSPECTOR who is responsible to:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-11 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
8 
1. 
Oversee, inspect, and certify (via the CORI) that the system has been installed in 
accordance the State of Colorado’s adopted Codes, Standards, Rules, and 
Regulations. 
2. 
Oversee, inspect, and certify (via the CORI) that the system has been installed in 
accordance with the accompanying design documents which have been 
reviewed, approved, and permitted by the qualified local jurisdiction where the 
premanufactured system will be installed. 
3.10.2 Fire Suppression System Contractor – Premanufactured must employ a State of 
Colorado registered Sprinkler Fitter. 
3.10.3 Fire Suppression System Contractor – Premanufactured upon application for renewal 
must produce evidence that the company’s design processes, installation operations, and 
inspection practices have been inspected and approved by DFPC within the previous 
three years. The cost of said inspection and review is the sole responsibility of the 
Contractor including all travel cost as deemed necessary by the Division for onsite 
inspection. The documentation of this approval by DFPC will not be released until the 
associated cost of the inspection have been remitted to DFPC. 
3.11 
Denial of Application 
3.11.1 The Division may deny any application for registration for the following reasons: 
1. 
False statements on the application form or in any of the attachments required 
for registration; 
2. 
Failure to meet or complete all requirements specified within the application; 
3. 
The applicant is currently barred from registration, certification, or licensure from 
another State agency, governing body, or local jurisdiction; 
4. 
The applicant has been convicted of a crime which reflects upon the integrity of 
the applicant in operating within the capacity for which they are seeking 
registration; 
5. 
The applicant has been terminated from employment from a registered fire 
suppression contractor, fire authority, or other governing body for engaging in 
negligent or unsafe work or construction practices. 
3.11.2 If the Division finds that grounds exist for the denial of any application for registration, 
action shall be taken according to the provisions of the Colorado Administrative 
Procedure Act, Section 24-4-101, et seq., C.R.S. 
3.12 
Registration Renewal 
3.12.1 Applications for renewal shall be submitted prior to expiration, subject to a 60-day grace 
period. Applicants submitting more than 60 days after expiration shall submit all 
documentation required of a new applicant in addition to documentation of continuing 
education in accordance with 5.4.2 and may be required to pay a late application fee as 
well as the renewal fee. 
3.12.2 RMEs must demonstrate that they have maintained their appropriate certifications or 
licensure. Individuals qualified under 3.6.2 or 3.7.2 must demonstrate CEU’s in 
accordance with Section 5.4.2.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-11 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
9 
SECTION 4 
FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEM INSPECTOR CERTIFICATION 
4.1 
Certification Required 
4.1.1 
Any installation, modification, alteration, or repair of a Fire Suppression System must be 
approved by a certified Fire Inspector II, in accordance with the provisions of 8 CCR 
1507-101 § 4.2.3B. Each county, municipality, or special district that has Fire 
Suppression Systems enforcement responsibilities must, as needed, provide certified 
Fire Inspectors certified to the appropriate level. 
Exemption: 
1. 
Inspectors of multipurpose residential sprinkler systems must meet the 
requirements of the State Board of Plumbing and are not regulated by the 
Division. 
4.1.2 
Individuals performing plan reviews on Fire Suppression Systems must be certified as 
Fire Inspector III-Plans Examiner, in accordance with 8 CCR 1507-101 § 4.2.3C. 
4.1.3 
Individuals performing inspections on Fire Suppression Systems must be certified as Fire 
-Inspector II, in accordance with the provisions of 8 CCR 1507-101 § 4.2.3B or Fire 
Inspector III-Plans Examiner, in accordance with 8 CCR 1507-101 § 4.2.3C. 
4.2 
Certification Requirements 
4.2.1 
Inspectors performing work under this rule shall be governed by the provisions of 8 CCR 
1507-101 (BUILDING AND FIRE CODE ADOPTION AND CERTIFICATION OF 
INSPECTORS FOR FIRE & LIFE SAFETY PROGRAMS ADMINISTERED BY THE 
STATE OF COLORADO). 
SECTION 5 
SPRINKLER FITTER REGISTRATION 
5.1 
Registration Required 
5.1.1 
No person may act, assume to act, or advertise as a Sprinkler Fitter who is not currently 
registered with the Division. 
5.1.2 
A Sprinkler Fitter may work on Fire Suppression Systems only under the employ of a 
registered Fire Suppression System contractor. A Sprinkler Fitter may be self-employed 
provided that he or she is also registered as a Fire Suppression System contractor. 
5.2 
Registration Application Requirements 
5.2.1 
In order to become registered, an applicant must submit the completed application along 
with the registration fee and all required supporting documentation prior to action by the 
Division. No cash payments will be accepted. 
5.2.2 
The applicant must provide proof of at least one of the following: 
Successful completion of an accredited sprinkler fitter apprenticeship program recognized 
by the United States Department of Labor or state apprenticeship agency, in accordance 
with the requirements of 29 C.F.R. 29.1 et seq., or other similar apprenticeship program 
approved by the administrator; 
--or--

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-11 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
10 
Current authorization to practice as a Sprinkler Fitter in another state or jurisdiction that 
has substantially similar or greater requirements than the requirements established in this 
rule; 
--or-- 
Documentary evidence demonstrating the performance of at least eight thousand (8,000) 
hours of practical work experience on Fire Suppression Systems within the past five (5) 
years; 
--or-- 
Demonstration of similar competency as a Sprinkler Fitter as determined by the Division. 
5.2.3 
The applicant must attest that all information included on the application is correct. 
5.2.4 
The applicant must notify the Division within 30 days of any changes that occur to the 
information provided including, but not limited to, a change in principal agent of the 
contractor, a change in physical address, telephone number, or e- mail address. 
5.2.5 
The applicant must attest they have read, understand, and will comply with Colorado 
Revised Statutes governing Fire Suppression Systems; all applicable rules, codes, and 
standards adopted by the Division; and with all codes, ordinances and resolutions 
adopted by municipalities, counties and fire protection districts in which they work. 
5.2.6 
The applicant may not perform any installation or maintenance work on a Fire 
Suppression System in Colorado until such time as their registration has been formally 
issued by the Division. 
5.2.7 
Upon the initial registration with the Division and upon the first registration after the 
Division adopts a new code set, the applicant must pass a Division approved examination 
pertinent to the Division’s currently adopted codes and standards. In addition to tests 
offered by the Division, the following examinations are approved for compliance with the 
examination requirement: 
1. 
STAR Fire Sprinkler fitting Mastery Exam 
2. 
CSA Sprinkler Commercial On-site Competent Person Exam (ASCR2) 
3. 
City of Denver’s Fire Sprinkler Systems Installer Examination Examinations 
specified in these rules taken to comply with another jurisdiction’s registration 
requirements may be accepted by the Division if the exam was taken within one 
(1) year of the application date. 
5.2.8 
Applicants installing CPVC or PEX piping systems must provide a certificate of 
successful completion of the applicable training course, issued by the manufacturer or 
their representative. 
5.2.9 
The applicant must submit a copy of their current driver’s license or Colorado 
Identification Card. 
5.2.10 The applicant must pay all fees associated with the registration.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-11 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
11 
5.3 
Duration of Registration 
5.3.1 
The registration period for new and renewal registrations will expire on June 30th each 
year regardless of when the registration was issued, unless earlier suspended or 
revoked. There will be no pro-rating of registration fees. 
5.3.2 
Applications for renewal shall be submitted no more than 30 days prior to expiration, A 
grace period for renewal may be extended for up to 30 days after expiration, after which a 
late application fee will be assessed. 
5.3.3 
All applications for registration shall have no longer than 30 days from the original 
submittal to correct deficiencies in their application including missing materials or fees. 
Applications older than 30 days with deficiencies will be considered vacated applications 
and the fees surrendered. 
5.3.4 
Applicants submitting more than 60 days after expiration shall submit all documentation 
required of a new applicant in addition to documentation of continuing education in 
accordance with 5.4.2. 
5.4 
Registration Renewal 
5.4.1 
Renewal of certification is the responsibility of the certified individual. Registrants 
requesting a renewal of their sprinkler fitter registration must complete an application, 
provide documented continuing education, and pay a renewal fee. 
5.4.2 
Registrants must document at least 2.4 CEU’s earned subsequent to July 1 of the 
previous year relevant to the field of fire suppression as indicated in Table 5.4.2 
Table 5.4.2 
1) 
Participation as a student in a seminar related to Fire Suppression 
Systems conducted by a qualified organization.  
(See Section 4.2.2.4 of 8 CCR 1507-101) 
0.1 per clock 
hour of 
attendance 
2) 
Fire code or building code overview classes. 
0.4 maximum 
Per course 
3) 
Attendance at NFPA and/or ICC code development hearings related 
to Fire Suppression Systems. 
1.0 max 
4) 
Active service on a committee or board with a fire sprinkler 
association or organization. 
0.5 per 
committee or 
board 
5) 
Completion of a college level course related to Fire Suppression 
Systems offered through a regionally accredited post-secondary 
institution. 
1.0 per credit 
hour earned. 
3.0 max 
6) 
Work experience as a registered Sprinkler Fitter during the 
registration period (must be documented through formal letter from 
employer, contractor, project owner, steward, project manager, or 
business manager for whom the project was performed). 
0.1 CEU per 
100 hours 
worked.  
1.6 max.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-11 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
12 
5.4.3 
In years that the Division adopts a new edition of the fire code or standards, a Sprinkler 
Fitter will be required to provide proof of passing one of the examinations specified in 
Section 5.2.7. A fee will be assessed for those taking an exam offered by the Division. 
Exemption: 
1. 
Renewal applicants for the 2022 registration year (July 1, 2022 thru June 30, 
2023) will have an additional calendar year until June 30, 2023 to pass a Division 
approved examination pertinent to the Division’s currently adopted codes and 
standards. 
5.5 
Denial of Application 
5.5.1 
The denial of an application shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of the 
Colorado Administrative Procedure Act, Section 24-4-101, et seq., C.R.S. The Division 
may deny an application for registration for the following reasons: 
1. 
False statements on the application form or in any of the attachments required 
for registration; 
2. 
Failure to meet or complete all requirements specified within the application; 
3. 
The applicant is currently barred from registration, certification, or licensure by 
another State agency, governing body, or local jurisdiction. 
4. 
The applicant has engaged in any of the conduct described in section 24-33.5- 
1206.6(2), C.R.S.. 
5. 
The applicant has been terminated from employment from a registered fire 
suppression contractor, fire authority, or other governing body for engaging in 
negligent or unsafe work or construction practices. 
5.5.2 
Notices of denial will be issued as Letters of Admonition in accordance with Section 10.4. 
and in accordance with the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act. 
SECTION 6 
FIRE SUPPRESSION CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITIES 
6.1 
Credentials 
6.1.1 
Registered contractors must provide their registration number on all plan review 
applications and correspondence. 
6.1.2 
To ensure that only qualified persons are conducting plan reviews or inspections, the 
contractor must request the certification number of any local inspector reviewing or 
inspecting their job. 
1. 
If in doubt, a contractor may verify a local person’s credentials on the Division’s 
website or by mail or phone (See Section 13). 
6.2 
Requirements for Plan Submittal 
6.2.1 
Fire Suppression Systems must not be installed or modified unless plans have been 
approved by a certified Fire Inspector III-Plans Examiner in accordance with this section. 
Exemptions:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-11 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
13 
1. 
Pre-engineered range hoods and duct extinguishing systems. 
2. 
Any work defined as “plumbing” by the Colorado Board of Plumbing or C.R.S. 12- 
58-102. 
6.2.2 
Plans, product data sheets, and hydraulic calculations must be submitted to the AHJ prior 
to the installation, fabrication, modification, or alteration of any Fire Suppression System 
in the State of Colorado. 
Exemptions: 
1. 
Hydraulic calculations are not required for small projects unless, in the opinion of 
the AHJ, the hydraulic design of the existing system may be affected by the 
scope of work. 
2. 
Hydraulic calculations are not required for residential, prescriptive pipe-schedule 
systems if designed in accordance with adopted standards. 
6.2.3 
If a local AHJ employs a Fire Inspector III-Plans Examiner, required documents must be 
submitted in accordance with local rules. 
6.2.4 
If a local AHJ does NOT employee a Fire Inspector III-Plans Examiner, the required 
documents must be submitted to the Division for review. 
1. 
Submittal requirements are posted on the Division’s website. It is the contractor’s 
responsibility to ensure that all necessary documents are provided before a 
review can commence. 
2. 
Once the plans are reviewed and acted upon by the Division, the contractor must 
send one set of approved plans to the local AHJ. 
6.2.5 
Plans and hydraulic calculations must bear the signature of a P.E. or NICET level III or 
above. This signature attests that the plans have been reviewed and meet the intent of 
the standard. 
Exemptions: 
1. 
No signature is required for small projects unless, in the opinion of the AHJ, the 
hydraulic design or integrity of the existing fire protection system may be affected 
by the scope of work. 
2. 
Residential prescriptive pipe-schedule design does not require a signature if in 
accordance with adopted standards. 
6.2.6 
Hydraulic Calculations. 
1. 
Flow tests on water supply systems must be less than one-year-old, unless 
approved by the Fire Inspector III-Plans Examiner. 
2. 
When calculating water supply requirements for new installations, deduct ten 
percent (10%) to a maximum of ten (10) psi from the static and residual pressure. 
Show the actual flow and reduction on hydraulic calculation sheets. 
Exemption:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-11 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
14 
1. 
13D Systems (One and two family dwellings) unless required by the local 
AHJ. 
6.2.7 
Special rules for small project submittals. 
1. 
In lieu of full-sized drawings, an AHJ may allow the submittal of a scale drawing 
of the proposed project on 8½ x 11-inch paper, including product data sheets, 
calculations, and all information required by the applicable NFPA standard. The 
certified Fire Inspector has the right to require additional information as may be 
necessary to fully evaluate the project. 
2. 
A signed letter on the registered contractor's letterhead must be submitted 
explaining the scope of work and a statement that tenant finish, remodel, or 
additions do not affect the hydraulic demand design or integrity of the existing fire 
protection system. 
6.3 
General Requirements for Installation of Fire Suppression Systems 
6.3.1 
One set of plans and product data sheets, approved by the Fire Inspector III-Plans 
Examiner, must remain on the job site for use by the inspector. No deviations from the 
approved plans are allowed unless approved by the Fire Inspector III-Plans Examiner. 
Exemption: 
1. 
Minor modifications required to adapt to unexpected on-site conditions which do 
not affect a system’s integrity or hydraulic design. 
6.3.2 
All components, including aboveground and underground piping must be accessible for 
inspection by a certified Fire Inspector. Whenever any installation subject to inspection is 
covered or concealed prior to being inspected, the inspector shall have the authority to 
require that such work be exposed for inspection. 
6.3.3 
A “Contractor's Material and Test Certificate for Aboveground Piping” or “Contractor's 
Material and Test Certificate for Underground Piping”, as appropriate, must be completed 
with all test results documented and copies provided by the contractor to the owner and 
certified Fire Inspector. 
6.3.4 
Required hydrostatic, operational, and flush testing must be witnessed and signed by a 
certified Fire Inspector. At the discretion of the inspector, all or part of the test may be 
witnessed by the general contractor or another responsible, independent party. 
6.3.5 
Contractors may not allow persons to work on Fire Suppression Systems who are not 
registered with the Division as Sprinkler Fitters. 
Exemptions: 
1. 
Persons who are enrolled in a Sprinkler Fitter apprenticeship program and are 
under the direct supervision and immediate presence of a registered Sprinkler 
Fitter. 
2. 
Persons working under the auspices of Fire Suppression Contractors- 
Underground, Fire Suppression System Contractors-Backflow, or Fire 
Suppression Systems Contractors- Residential. 
3. 
Persons performing only maintenance and repair on Fire Suppression Systems.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-11 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
15 
4. 
Persons working on residential plumbing appliances, fixtures, appurtenances, or 
multipurpose residential fire sprinkler systems in one- or two-family dwellings or 
townhomes. 
6.3.6 
Installation of underground fire protection system supply lines. 
1. 
Underground supply lines installed between the public water main or a private 
water source and the Fire Suppression System riser must be installed in 
accordance with NFPA 24 or NFPA 13, chapter 10, Underground Piping. 
2. 
Underground supply lines must be installed by registered Fire Suppression 
Contractors-Underground. 
3. 
The certified Fire Inspector may require flushing of the aboveground sprinkler 
piping if required tests for the underground piping cannot be documented. 
6.3.7 
Installation of backflow preventers. 
1. 
Backflow preventers must be installed by registered Fire Suppression 
Contractors-Backflow. 
2. 
For new installations, the backflow preventer may not be installed until 
Contractor's Material and Test Certificate for Underground Piping has been 
completed. 
6.3.8 
Installation of Fire Suppression Systems in Premanufactured Buildings or Structures 
1. 
Fire Suppression System Contractor – Premanufactured must generate, prior to 
shipping, a CORI to accompany the system to be presented to the qualified AHJ 
who is inspecting the final installation. Said CORI shall be in the format 
prescribed by DFPC which contains the following: 
1. 
An attestation by the PREMANUFACTURED SYSTEM FIRE SUPPRESSION 
SPECIAL INSPECTOR that the fire suppression system in the accompanying 
building or structure was installed in accordance with the State of Colorado’s 
adopted codes, standards, rules, and regulations and the qualified local 
jurisdiction’s permit restrictions. 
2. 
An attestation signed by the responsible party for the manufacturer that the 
company is responsible for ensuring correction of any work done outside of the 
permitted conditions for the building or structure or damaged during transport. 
3. 
Photo Documentation of all Fire Suppression System work completed prior to the 
building or structure leaving the manufacture’s plant. Such photo documentation 
shall be clear and through enough to allow the qualified local jurisdiction to 
review and determine adequacy of the installation to the permit’s restrictions. 
4. 
An attestation signed by the Premanufactured System Fire Suppression Special 
Inspector attesting to the fact they conducted the requisite Premanufactured 
System Special Inspections and verified compliance with 8 CCR 1507-11, the 
requirements of the Colorado Division of Fire Prevention & Control, and the 
stipulations of the fire sprinkler system permit and approved plans issued by the 
appropriate Fire Code Authority Having Jurisdiction (AHJ) for the final installation 
site.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-11 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
16 
6.4 
Requirements for Contractors Performing Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance 
6.4.1 
Businesses conducting inspections on Suppression Systems shall be Registered Fire 
Suppression System Contractors. 
6.4.2 
Registered Fire Suppression System Contractors must complete and maintain inspection 
reports, in accordance with the applicable NFPA standard, for each inspection, test, or 
maintenance performed on any Fire Suppression System in the State of Colorado. 
6.4.3 
Registered Fire Suppression System Contractors shall ensure that only qualified 
individuals perform inspections. 
6.4.4 
Inspection reports must be maintained for a period of no less than five years or as 
required by a local AHJ, whichever is greater. 
6.4.5 
Copies of inspection reports must be submitted to the AHJ unless the contractor is 
notified in writing that they do not wish to receive such reports. Impairment reports in 
accordance with 6.4.9 must be submitted regardless of whether the AHJ has notified the 
contractor that they do not wish to receive inspection reports. If possible, reports should 
be sent to the AHJ through telephonic or other electronic means, such as facsimile or e- 
mail. If the AHJ does not have electronic communication capabilities, a report shall be 
deemed delivered when mailed through the US Postal Service to the AHJ. 
6.4.6 
Tagging of Fire Suppression Systems. 
1. 
Systems installed, altered, or inspected after January 1st, 2016 must have a 
color coded tag or collar physically placed on the Fire Suppression System which 
identifies the responsible contractor by name, registration number, and contact 
information (phone number and address). Tags must not be removed unless 
replaced by a registered Fire Suppression System Contractor who has done a 
subsequent inspection. Such tag must be placed and remain in the main or 
primary system control or riser room and must comply with the following 
parameters: 
(A) 
New Installations and Major Alterations – Must be marked with a White 
Tag of heavy cardboard or water resistant (plasticized) paper with the 
word “INSTALL” printed in all caps and in a font no smaller than 24 
points on it. Such tag must be marked to show the date of the final 
acceptance of the System or alteration and if a Sprinkler Fitter conducted 
the final acceptance test, his registration number. These tags must 
remain attached to the System for the life of the System. 
(B) 
Upon completion of all annual inspection, testing, and maintenance 
requirements in accordance with NFPA 25, systems with No Deficiencies 
or Impairments - Must be marked with a Green Tag of heavy cardboard 
or water resistant (plasticized) paper with the word “OPERATIONAL” 
printed in all caps and in a font no smaller than 24 points on it. Such tag 
must be marked to show the date of the inspection of the System and the 
registration or certification number of the Sprinkler Fitter or the name of 
the person conducting the inspection test. These tags must remain 
attached to the System until replaced after the next annual inspection is 
conducted.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-11 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
17 
(C) 
Systems inspected in accordance with NFPA 25 with Deficiency(ies) - 
Must be marked with a Yellow Tag of heavy cardboard or water resistant 
(plasticized) paper with the word “DEFICIENCY” printed in all caps and 
in a font no smaller than 24 points on it. Such tag must be marked to 
show the date of the inspection of the System and the registration or 
certification number of the Sprinkler Fitter or the name of the person 
conducting the inspection test. These tags must remain attached to the 
System until the deficiency is repaired or shall be removed in accordance 
with (F). 
(D) 
Systems inspected in accordance with NFPA 25 with Impairment(s) - 
Must be marked with a RED Tag of heavy cardboard or water resistant 
(plasticized) paper with the word “IMPAIRMENT” printed in all caps and 
in a font no smaller than 24 points on it. Such tag must be marked to 
show the date of the inspection of the System and the registration or 
certification number of the Sprinkler Fitter or the name of the person 
conducting the inspection test. These tags must remain attached to the 
System until all impairments have been corrected or shall be removed in 
accordance with (F). 
(E) 
Systems with deficiencies or impairments that have been corrected – 
Must be marked with a BLUE Tag of heavy cardboard or water resistant 
(plasticized) paper with the word “REPAIR” printed in all caps and in a 
font no smaller than 24 points on it. Such tag must be marked to show 
the date of the repair of the System and the registration or certification 
number of the Sprinkler Fitter or the name of the person correcting the 
deficiency or impairment. These tags must be attached to the YELLOW 
or RED tag and shall identify the deficiency or impairment corrected. 
REPAIR tags may be attached to DEFICIENCY tags after any deficiency 
has been repaired. REPAIR tags may only be attached to IMPAIRMENT 
tags once all impairments have been corrected or shall be removed in 
accordance with (F). 
(F) 
All INSPECTION, DEFICIENCY, IMPAIRMENT, and REPAIR tags must 
be removed by the person performing a subsequent annual inspection in 
accordance with NFPA 25. INSTALL tags must not be removed. 
6.4.7 
Records and reports of inspections, testing and maintenance must be maintained by the 
system owner, on the premises of the System, for a period of no less than five (5) years. 
Such records must be made available for review at the request of the Division or the local 
AHJ. 
6.4.8 
Records of inspections, testing, or maintenance conducted outside of a full Inspection, 
Testing, and Maintenance Service must contain a notice to the System owner or 
responsible party advising of the limitations of the work conducted in relation to the 
overall responsibilities of the System owner. 
6.4.9 
Any contractor, Sprinkler Fitter, or inspector who finds a Fire Suppression System with 
impairments must provide a copy of the reports or records associated with that finding to 
the local responding fire department and the appropriate AHJ for the Fire Suppression 
System within 24 hours. Impairment reports must be provided regardless of whether the 
AHJ has notified a contractor that they do not wish to receive inspection reports in 
accordance with 6.4.5.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-11 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
18 
6.5 
Complaint Reporting 
6.5.1 
Registered contractors and their employees who identify significant or repeated design or 
installation deficiencies or other violations of these rules by coworkers, other contractors, 
or certified Fire Inspectors or Plans Examiners must report them to the Division in 
accordance with the complaint procedures identified in Section 10. 
6.5.2 
Contractors reporting such complaints must provide to the Division copies of submittal 
documents, inspection reports, photographs, or other evidence supporting the complaint. 
6.5.3 
Failure to report identified significant or repeated design or installation deficiencies or 
other violations of these rules may lead to disciplinary action against contractors and/or 
their employees. 
SECTION 7 
FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEM INSPECTOR RESPONSIBILITIES 
7.1 
Credentials 
7.1.1 
Certified Fire Inspectors and Plans Examiners must provide their certification number on 
all Fire Suppression System plan reviews, permits, and inspection reports. 
7.1.2 
To ensure that only qualified contractors are performing work on sprinkler systems, Plans 
Examiners must require the registration number of any contractor submitting plans for 
review. 
7.1.3 
To ensure that only qualified Sprinkler Fitters are installing or modifying sprinkler 
systems, Fire Inspectors must require the registration number of the journeyman 
overseeing a project, prior to beginning an inspection. 
7.1.4 
Credentials may be verified on the Division’s website or by mail or phone (See Section 
13). 
7.2 
Requirements for Plan Review 
7.2.1 
Plans Examiners must verify that submitted documents include all information necessary 
to ensure that plans are designed in accordance with the appropriate standards. 
7.2.2 
Plans Examiners may ask for any additional information beyond that required by adopted 
standards when necessary to verify the effectiveness and appropriateness of a proposed 
sprinkler design. 
7.3 
Requirements for Performing Inspections 
7.3.1 
Fire Inspectors must verify that work is performed in a workmanlike manner and in 
accordance with the approved plans. 
7.4 
Record Keeping 
7.4.1 
Municipalities, counties, fire protection districts, and other state or local authorities 
employing certified Fire Inspectors must maintain records of all plan reviews and 
inspections conducted by each inspector and plan reviewer during their three-year 
certification periods and for at least three (3) years after a project is completed, or in 
accordance with other applicable regulations or statutes, whichever is longer. Said 
records must be made available for review by the Division, upon request.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-11 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
19 
7.5 
Complaint Reporting 
7.5.1 
Certified Fire Inspectors or Plans Examiners who identify significant or repeated design 
or installation deficiencies or other violations of these Rules by contractors, Sprinkler 
Fitters, coworkers, or other certified Fire Inspectors or Plans Examiners must report them 
to the Division in accordance with the complaint procedures identified in Section 10. 
7.5.2 
Certified Fire Inspectors or Plans Examiners reporting such complaints must provide to 
the Division copies of submittal documents, inspection reports, photographs, or other 
evidence supporting the complaint. 
7.5.3 
Failure to report significant or repeated design or installation deficiencies or other 
violations of these Rules may lead to disciplinary action against the certified Fire 
Suppression Systems Inspectors or Plan Reviewer. 
7.5.4 
Fire Inspectors or Plans Examiners who are subject to complaints must not retaliate in 
any way against a complainant. A finding of retaliation may lead to loss of certification. 
SECTION 8 
SPRINKLER FITTER RESPONSIBILITIES 
8.1 
Credentials 
8.1.1 
Registered Sprinkler Fitters must keep a copy of their State issued registration with them 
when performing work on a Fire Suppression System and must present it to a certified 
Fire Inspector or AHJ at their request. 
8.1.2 
To ensure that only qualified Fire Inspectors are performing plan reviews or inspections 
of Fire Suppression Systems, Sprinkler Fitters may ask for their certification number. 
8.1.3 
Credentials may be verified on the Division’s website or by mail or phone (See Section 
13). 
8.2 
Requirements for Installation, Modification, and Repair 
8.2.1 
A registered Sprinkler Fitter will be responsible to perform his or her duties in a 
workmanlike manner. 
8.2.2 
A registered Sprinkler Fitter must not leave a Fire Suppression System out of service in 
an occupied building without consulting with and meeting the fire watch requirements of 
the AHJ. 
8.2.3 
Sprinkler Fitters will be responsible for the work of any apprentices under their authority. 
A Sprinkler Fitter may supervise no more than three apprentices at any one time. A 
Sprinkler Fitter must not leave apprentices unsupervised and must be immediately 
available on site. 
8.3 
Complaint Reporting 
8.3.1 
Registered Sprinkler Fitters who identify significant or repeated design or installation 
deficiencies or other violations of these rules by contractors, other Sprinkler Fitters, 
coworkers, or certified Fire Inspectors or Plans Examiners must report them to the 
Division in accordance with the complaint procedures identified in Section 10.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-11 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
20 
8.5.2 
Registered Sprinkler Fitters reporting such complaints must provide to the Division copies 
of submittal documents, inspection reports, photographs, or other evidence supporting 
the complaint. 
8.5.3 
Failure to report significant or repeated design or installation deficiencies or other 
violations of these rules may lead to disciplinary action against the registered Sprinkler 
Fitter. 
8.5.4 
Registered Sprinkler Fitters who are subject to complaints must not retaliate in any way 
against a complainant. A finding of retaliation may lead to loss of registration. 
SECTION 9 
CODES AND STANDARDS ADOPTED 
9.1 
The following codes and standards are adopted by the Division for the design, installation, and 
maintenance of Fire Suppression Systems within the State of Colorado: 
9.1.1 
Adopted codes and standards pertinent to this rule shall be as prescribed in 8 CCR 1507- 
101 (BUILDING AND FIRE CODE ADOPTION AND CERTIFICATION OF INSPECTORS 
FOR FIRE & LIFE SAFETY PROGRAMS ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE OF 
COLORADO). 
1. 
For the purposes of this rule the Division shall enforce the Building Codes as 
defined in 8 CCR 1507-101 § 3.2.1. 
2. 
For the purposes of this rule the Division shall enforce the Fire Codes as defined 
in 8 CCR 1507-101 § 3.2.2. 
3. 
For the purposes of this rule the Division shall enforce the Life Safety Codes as 
defined in 8 CCR 1507-101 § 3.2.3. 
4. 
For the purposes of this rule the Division shall enforce the Fire Suppression 
System standards as defined in 8 CCR 1507-101 § 3.2.4. 
9.2 
Municipalities, counties, fire protection districts and other units of local government having the 
authority to do so, may adopt codes, standards, ordinances and/or resolutions governing the 
design and installation of Fire Suppression Systems that may be different than those adopted by 
the Division. 
9.2.1 
Municipalities, counties, fire protection districts and other local authorities employing 
certified Fire Inspectors and Plans Examiners may also enforce locally adopted codes, 
standards ordinances and/or resolutions governing the design and installation of Fire 
Suppression Systems, to the extent permitted by the adopting ordinance or resolution. 
9.2.2 
Conflicts between the codes and standards adopted by the Administrator and those 
adopted by a local government will be resolved in the following manner: 
1. 
In cases where the local AHJ employs certified Fire Inspectors and Plans 
Examiners, the local government requirements will apply. 
2. 
In cases where the local AHJ employs certified Fire Inspectors but the Division 
conducts plan reviews, the Division’s adopted codes and standards will apply. 
3. 
In cases where the local AHJ does not employ certified Fire Inspectors or Plans 
Examiners, the Division’s adopted codes and standards will apply.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-11 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
21 
SECTION 10 
COMPLAINTS 
This Section concerns the reporting, investigation, and resolution of complaints alleging violation of any 
provision of 24-33.5-1206 through 1206.7 C.R.S or these Rules. 
10.1 
Complaints alleging violation of any provision of C.R.S. 24 33.5 1206.1 through 1206.7, or any 
Rule adopted by the Division must be filed with the Division’s Fire & Life Safety Section Chief. 
10.1.1 The Division may act on anonymous complaints or those made by complainants who 
desire to remain anonymous. However, individuals submitting complaints should be 
aware that such complaints are public records and may be available to the public for 
inspection in accordance with the Colorado Public Records Act 24-72-201, C.R.S. et seq. 
10.1.2 Individuals or companies certified or registered through the Division in accordance with 
Sections 3, 4, and 5 of these rules are required to report significant or repeated design or 
installation deficiencies, other violations of any provision of 24-33.5-1206.1 through 
1206.7 C.R.S., or these Rules. 
10.1.3 The Fire & Life Safety Section (F&LSS) Chief will investigate or cause to be investigated 
the information contained in the complaint. If evidence can be found to substantiate that a 
violation has occurred, the F&LSS Chief will proceed pursuant to Sections 10.2 through 
10.7. 
10.1.4 If the investigation identifies evidence of fraud or other criminal activity, a case will be 
referred to the law enforcement agency(ies) having jurisdiction. Referral does not prevent 
the Division from pursuing action under these Rules. 
10.1.5 Should the Director determine that it is necessary to conduct a hearing, the Division will 
utilize the services of the Colorado Division of Administrative Hearings to conduct a 
hearing in accordance with the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act, 24-1-101, et seq. 
C.R.S. 
10.2 
Penalties 
10.2.1 The F&LSS Chief may assess a penalty and/or fine for any conduct determined, after 
investigation, to constitute a violation of these Rules. 
10.2.2 Any assessed penalty and/or and fine will be in addition to any other civil or criminal 
penalties that may be prescribed by a court of competent jurisdiction. 
10.2.3 Nothing in these Rules should be construed to understand that penalties must follow 
progressive discipline. 
10.3 
Warnings 
10.3.1 A Warning may be issued to individuals and/or companies for a single, substantiated, 
violation of these rules which, in the opinion of the F&LSS Chief, does not rise to the level 
of a significant violation. 
10.3.2 Examples of violations which may lead to a warning (list is not exclusive): 
1. 
Failure to provide registration or certification number on documents as required 
in Sections 6 through 8;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-11 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
22 
2. 
Failure of a Sprinkler Fitter to maintain a copy of his or her registration on the job 
site; 
3. 
Operating with an expired certification or registration (within the grace period). 
10.3.3 Warnings will be delivered by e-mail to the address provided on the certification or 
registration application. 
10.3.4 Warnings issued to Sprinkler Fitters or Fire Suppression Systems Inspectors will be 
copied to the registered contractor or local AHJ for which they work. 
10.3.5 E-mailed warnings will be sent with a delivery receipt requested. 
10.4 
Letters of Admonition 
10.4.1 A Letter of Admonition will be issued for a single, substantiated violation which, in the 
opinion of the F&LSS Chief, constitutes a significant violation but which does not 
constitute a threat to public health, safety, or welfare. Letters of Admonition may also be 
issued to individuals and/or companies receiving multiple warnings during any twelve- 
month period. 
10.4.2 Examples of violations which may lead to a letter of admonishment (list is not exclusive): 
1. 
Receiving more than one warning during any twelve-month period; 
2. 
Failure to report significant or repeated design or installation deficiencies as 
required by Sections 6.5, 7.5, or 8.3; 
3. 
Operating with an expired certification or registration (outside of the grace 
period). 
10.4.3 Nothing will be construed to require subsequent violations be related to the nature of the 
previous violation. 
10.4.4 Letters of Admonition will be delivered by certified mail to the address provided on the 
certification or registration application. 
10.4.5 Letters of Admonition issued to Sprinkler Fitters or certified Fire Suppression System 
Inspectors will be copied to the registered contractor or local AHJ for which they work. 
10.5 
Suspensions 
10.5.1 The suspension of a registration or certification shall be conducted in accordance with the 
provisions of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act, Section 24-4-101, et seq., 
C.R.S. A registration or certification may be suspended for a single, substantiated 
violation of these rules which, in the opinion of the F&LSS Chief, constitutes a serious 
violation but which does not constitute a serious threat to public health, safety, and 
welfare. Suspensions will also be issued to individuals and/or companies for repeated 
violations as indicated in Sections 10.3 and 10.4. 
1. 
Individuals or companies not currently certified or registered through the Division 
in accordance with Sections, 3, 4, and 5 of these rules but operating in violation 
of these rules may be subject to denial of their application for certification or 
registration.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-11 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
23 
10.5.2 Examples of violations which might lead to suspension or denial (list is not exclusive): 
1. 
Receiving a warning subsequent to receiving of a Letter of Admonition during the 
prior twelve-month period; 
2. 
Failure or refusal to stop work or leave a job site upon request of the certified 
inspector; 
3. 
Failure to notify the Division of any changes that may affect the person’s current 
registration or certification status; 
4. 
Employment of non-registered Sprinkler Fitters by a registered contractor; 
5. 
Expiration of a required, qualifying document or examination during the 
registration or certification period. 
10.5.3 Nothing will be construed to require subsequent violations to be related to the nature of 
previous violations. 
10.5.4 Notices of suspension will be issued as Letters of Admonition in accordance with Section 
10.4. and in accordance with the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act. 
10.5.5 Suspensions or denials will be for a reasonable period established by the Director of the 
Division of Fire Prevention & Control. 
10.5.6 Any violation which, in the opinion of the F&LSS Chief, constitutes a serious threat to 
public health, safety, or welfare will result in immediate suspension or denial of a 
registration or certification pending a revocation hearing pursuant to Sections 10.6. 
10.6 
Revocations 
10.6.1 The revocation of a registration or certification shall be conducted in accordance with the 
provisions of the Colorado Administrative Procedure Act, Section 24-4-101, et seq., 
C.R.S. A registration or certification may be revoked for a single, substantiated violation 
of these rules which, in the opinion of the Director, constitutes a serious threat to public 
health, safety, and welfare. Registrations or certifications may also be revoked for 
repeated violations of Sections 10.3 through 10.5. 
1. 
Individuals or companies not currently certified or registered through the Division 
in accordance with Sections, 3, 4, and 5 of these rules but operating in violation 
of these rules may be subject to denial of their application for certification or 
registration. 
10.6.2 Examples of violations which might lead to revocation or denial (list is not exclusive): 
1. 
Receiving a Letter of Admonition subsequent to a suspension within the prior 
twelve-month period; 
2. 
Fraud or material deception in obtaining or renewing a registration or certification; 
3. 
Professional incompetence as manifested by poor, faulty, or dangerous 
workmanship; 
4. 
Engaging in conduct that is likely to deceive, defraud, or harm the public in the 
course of professional services or activities;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-11 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
24 
5. 
Negligently performing any services regulated by the Division; 
6. 
Retaliation by a certified inspector against a complainant; 
7. 
Using another individual’s or company’s credentials to obtain or perform work 
regulated by these rules. 
10.6.3 Nothing will be construed to require subsequent violations to be related to the nature of 
previous violations. 
10.6.4 Notices of revocation or denial will be issued as Letters of Admonition in accordance with 
Section 10.4. 
10.6.5 Revocations or denials will be for a period as determined by the administrator up to and 
including a permanent revocation. 
10.6.6 All revocations or denials will result in immediate suspension of a registration or 
certification pending a revocation or denial hearing pursuant to the Colorado 
Administrative Procedure Act. 
10.7 
Fines 
10.7.1 In addition to the penalties identified Sections 10.4 through 10.6, the F&LSS Chief may 
assess a fine for any conduct determined to constitute a violation of these Rules. The 
fines will be as follows: 
1. 
A letter of admonition or suspension may be subject to a fine of not less than 
$100 and not more than $1,000. 
2. 
A revocation will be subject to a fine of not less than $1,000 and not more than 
$10,000. 
3. 
Any subsequent violation of similar magnitude will be assessed a fine of not less 
than $1,000 and not more than $10,000 and will be subject to immediate 
suspension pursuant to a revocation hearing. 
SECTION 11 
FEES AND CHARGES ESTABLISHED 
11.1 
Services other than Fire Suppression System plan review and inspection fees: 
 
11.1.1 
Annual Registration of Fire Suppression System Contractors 
$100 
11.1.2 
Sprinkler Fitter – new application 
$75 
11.1.3 
Sprinkler Fitter – renewal application 
$50 
11.1.4 
Replacement of lost or damaged registration or certification 
$20 
11.1.5 
Technical assistance to other agencies including travel to and from job site 
$100/hr 
11.1.6 
Late renewal fee 
$25 
11.1.7 
Examination (or review of reciprocal exam) 
$30 
11.1.8 
FEMA hotel or motel compliance inspection fee per building fire alarm and Fire 
Suppression System (To be applied in addition to the fees outlined in section 
11.1.5 for time spent traveling to; conducting; and returning from the inspection, 
as this work is considered to be a technical assistance activity.) 
$100

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-11 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
25 
11.2 
Fire Suppression System plan review and inspection fees: 
11.2.1 Plan review, construction permit, and inspection fees are calculated based on the total 
project valuation: 
1. 
Fees for projects with a total project valuation of $5,000.00 or less will be subject 
to a flat fee of $800.00. 
2. 
Fees for projects with a total project valuation of greater than $5,000.00 will be 
subject to a base fee of $800.00 plus a fee equal to .0025 times the total project 
valuation. 
The inspection component of the fee in Section 11.2.1 includes an allocation of 
site visits to complete the necessary inspections in accordance with the table 
below. In the event that additional inspections by the Division are necessary or 
requested, additional fees may be assessed as outlined in 11.2.5. 
 
Under 50,000 sq.ft. 
5 site visits 
50,001-100,000 sq.ft 
10 site visits 
100,001-200,000 sq. ft. 
5 site visits/each additional 100,000 sq. ft. 
3. 
Division inspection fees do not include costs associated with inspections 
conducted the by local AHJ or third-party inspectors. 
4. 
If the submitted total project valuation appears to be below market value for the 
project, the Division reserves the right to request documentation from the 
permitee to verify the total project valuation. The permitee has the right to mark 
documents submitted to verify the total project valuation as proprietary 
information. 
11.2.2 The Division will review the fire suppression cash fund balance periodically and may 
reduce or increase the amount of the fees charged, if necessary, pursuant to section 24- 
75-402 (3) and 24-75-402 (4), C.R.S. 
11.2.3 A fee calculator posted on the Division website enables determination of total fees (plan 
review and permit fees) prior to submittal of a project. 
11.2.4 A minimum of half of the fees must be submitted prior to commencement of plan review 
and the remaining fees must be submitted prior to permit issuance. Inspections will not 
be performed until the full balance of required fees has been paid. Additional inspection 
fees must be submitted prior to issuance of any associated Certificate of Compliance or 
completion of the permit. 
11.2.5 The Division may assess a $400 inspection fee for each additional inspection in excess 
of the number allocated by the table in 11.2.1. Additional inspections exceeding 4 hours 
in length, including travel time, will be charged $100 for each additional hour or portion 
thereof. 
11.2.6 The Division may assess an additional off-hours inspection fee of $400 for inspections 
requested outside of normal business hours. 
1. 
Normal inspection hours are Monday through Friday between 8:00 am 
and 5:00 pm.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-11 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
26 
2. 
Off-hours inspections are scheduled on an “as-available” basis. The 
Division is not obligated to provide inspections outside of normal 
operating hours if an inspector is not available. 
11.3 
The above fees and charges apply only for Division services. Local jurisdictions 
having certified Fire Inspectors may establish their own permit, plan review and 
inspection fees, and other charges. 
11.4 
Fees may be waived or modified when appropriate at the discretion of the 
Director or his designee. Request for waiver or modification shall be in writing. 
SECTION 12 INQUIRIES 
12.1 Questions, clarification, or interpretation of these Rules should be addressed in writing to: Fire & Life 
Safety Section Chief, Colorado Division of Fire Prevention and Control, 700 Kipling St, Suite 
4100, Denver, CO 80215. Telephone number: (303) 239-4100. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 12/30/2009. 
Rules 3.9, 4, 6, 8 emer. rules eff. 12/30/2014; expired 04/29/2015. 
Rules 3.9, 4, 6, 8 emer. rules eff. 04/30/2015; expired 08/28/2015. 
Entire rule eff. 08/30/2015. 
Rules 2.18, 2.23, 3.3-3.6, 3.10, 4.3.1, 4.9.2.B, 4.9.4, 5.4.2, 5.4.4, 6.4, 8.1, 10.5, 10.6, 11.4 eff. 
03/17/2017. 
Rules 11.1.5, 11.1.9, 11.2.1, 11.2.3, 11.2.5 eff. 03/02/2018. 
Rules 3.9.2, 3.10.1, Section 4, 5.4.4, 5.5.2, 6.2, 6.3, 6.5.1, Sections 7 - 9, 10.4.1, 10.4.2.1, 10.5.2.1, 
10.5.5, 10.6.2.1, 10.6.5, 10.8, 11.1.6 - 11.1.8, 11.3, 12.1 eff. 03/30/2019. 
Rules 3.8.1-3.8.3, Table 5.4.2, 5.5.1, 5.5.1 4-5, 5.5.2, 6.3.6 1, 6.4.5, 6.4.9, 10.1.3, 10.5.1, 10.5.4, 10.5.6, 
10.6.1, 10.6.6, 11.2.1 1-2 eff. 09/30/2019. Rule 10.8 repealed eff. 09/30/2019. 
Rules Section 3, Section 5, 6.3.2, 10.6.1 1, 11.1.4, 11.1.5, 11.1.8, 11.2.4, 11.2.5 eff. 11/30/2020. 
Rules 2.4, 2.24, 3.2.5, 3.10, 5.4.3 1, 6.3.8 emer. rules eff. 06/17/2022. 
Rules 2.4, 2.24, 2.25, 3.2.5, 3.10, 5.4.3, 6.3.8 eff. 10/15/2022. 
Annotations 
Rules 6.2.1 3., 9.5 1., 10.7.2 (adopted 07/09/2015) were not extended by House Bill 16-1257 and 
therefore expired 05/15/2016. 
Rules 5.5.1 4., 10.5.1, 10.5.4 (adopted 01/16/2018) were not extended by Senate Bill 19-168 and 
therefore expired 05/15/2019.
