---
id: "8_CCR_1507-58"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1507-58"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12472&fileName=8%20CCR%201507-58&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1507-58. 8 CCR 1507-58

1 
Department of Public Safety 
Colorado State Patrol 
RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE COLORADO STATE PATROL 
THIRD-PARTY COMMERCIAL VEHICLE VIN VERIFICATION PROGRAM 
8 CCR 1507-58 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
TVIN 1: 
Authority to Adopt Rules 
Section 42-1-232 (7), CRS, authorizes the Chief of the Colorado State Patrol to 
promulgate the rules reasonably necessary to implement the Third-Party Commercial 
Vehicle VIN Verification Inspection Program, as it is described in Section 42-1-232 (2), 
CRS. 
TVIN 2: 
Applicability 
These rules and regulations apply to all individuals, corporations, other legal entities, or 
Colorado government or governmental subdivisions or agencies engaged in the 
verification of commercial vehicle information who operate as Transportation 
Associations, Transportation Organizations, or Third-Party Civilian Verifiers, as each is 
defined within these rules. 
TVIN 3: 
Definitions 
The following definitions apply throughout these rules unless otherwise specified: 
3.1. 
CBI: Colorado Bureau of Investigation. 
3.2. 
CDPS: Colorado Department of Public Safety. 
3.3. 
Chief: Means the Chief of the Colorado State Patrol or his or her designees. 
3.4. 
Civilian Verifier (CV): An individual employed or contracted by a permitted 
Transportation Association or Transportation Organization to verify commercial 
vehicle information, including VINs. 
3.5. 
Civilian Verifier Permit (CVP): A permit issued by the Chief for a CV to a 
Transportation Association or Transportation Organization that holds a valid 
Third-Party VIN Verification Inspection Permit. Transportation Associations or 
Transportation Organizations can be issued multiple CVPs. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-58 
Colorado State Patrol 
 
2 
3.6. 
Civilian VIN Training: A class provided by the Colorado State Patrol to train 
individuals on how to perform and document VIN verifications. Certificates are 
issued upon successful completion of the course. 
3.7. 
Commercial Vehicle: The definition of a commercial vehicle will be consistent 
with Section 42-4-235 (1) (A), CRS. 
3.8. 
Criminal History Search: A service that has online access and is provided 
through CBI. The service offers an individual’s Colorado criminal history upon 
request. 
3.9 
CSP: Colorado State Patrol. 
3.10. CVSA Certified Enforcement Official: A CSP Enforcement Official certified by 
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (FMCSA) according to 49 CFR 
385, subpart C, and authorized by Section 42-4-235 (2) (C), CRS, to complete 
compliance reviews and/or safety audits. 
3.11. Enforcement Official: The definition of Enforcement Official will be the same as 
defined in Sections 16-2.5-101, 16-2.5-115, 16-2.5-143, and 42-20-103 (2), CRS. 
3.12. Permit Program Compliance Review (PPCR): An examination of records 
and/or the inquiry of Third-Party VIN Verification Program participants by a 
CVSA-certified Enforcement Official as defined in these rules. Examination of 
any documents or inquiries of Third-Party VIN Verification Program participants 
will be limited to those records and activities reasonably related to the completion 
of Third-Party VIN Verification Inspections. 
3.13. Regular Business Hours: For purposes of these rules, regular business hours 
are defined as between 8:30 am and 5:00 pm Monday through Friday, excluding 
legal holidays or as is otherwise consistent with the hours of operation required 
of state offices by Colorado law. 
3.14. Third-Party VIN Verification Inspection Permit (TVIP): A permit issued by the 
Chief to a Transportation Association or a Transportation Organization to employ 
or contract Civilian Verifiers approved by the CSP to verify commercial vehicle 
information, including VINs. This permit allows the Transportation Association or 
Transportation Organization to set a fee for the service of commercial vehicle 
VIN verification not exceeding that set forth in Section 42-1-232 (5), CRS. 
3.15. Transportation Association/Transportation Organization (TA/TO): A legal 
business entity and membership organization registered and in good standing 
with the Colorado Secretary of State, operating within the state of Colorado, and 
focused on transportation issues, transportation regulations, and highway safety. 
Membership of the TA/TO must consist of legal entities or individuals who are 
primarily engaged in the operation of commercial vehicles in Colorado. 
3.16. TVVP: Third-Party VIN Verification Program.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-58 
Colorado State Patrol 
 
3 
3.17. Vehicle Identification Number (VIN): Any identifying number, serial number, 
engine number, or other identifying number or mark upon a vehicle as is set forth 
by Section 42-5-101 (11), CRS. 
TVIN 4: 
Eligibility and Application Requirements 
4.1. 
TA/TO Eligibility for TVIP: To be eligible to receive a TVIP, TA/TOs must meet 
minimum requirements. 
4.1.1. Definition. An applicant for a TVIP must meet the definition of a TA/TO 
under these rules. 
4.1.2. Financial Responsibility. TVIP applicants must furnish evidence of a 
savings account or deposit in a certificate of deposit meeting the 
requirements of Section 11-35-101, CRS, or a surety bond of at least 
$10,000.00. The surety bond must hold harmless to any person who 
suffers loss or damage arising from the issuance of a Certificate of Title, 
including a VIN verification completed through a TA/TO having a valid 
TVIP. 
4.1.3. Use of CVs. TVIP applicants must either employ or contract with or intend 
to employ or contract with CVs: 
4.1.3.1. 
Who can demonstrate or successfully acquire knowledge of 
the process and standards applicable to vehicle information 
verification, including the VIN verification process. 
4.1.3.2. 
Who has not been convicted of violating Article 4, Title 18, 
CRS, within 10 years before the submission date of a TVIP 
application. 
4.1.3.3. 
For which a TA/TO can provide information, including the 
name, background, experience, operation location, contact 
information, and any other information required by the Chief. 
4.1.3.4. 
Who has received a CVP from the Chief verifying their status 
as a CV and authority to verify commercial vehicle information, 
including VINs. 
4.1.4. Application. TVIP applicants must complete the application as provided 
by the CSP. Incomplete applications will be returned with instructions to 
complete the application before resubmission. 
4.2. 
CV Eligibility for CVP: To be eligible to apply for and receive a CVP for a CV, a 
TA/TO submitting a CVP application must meet minimum requirements. 
4.2.1. Valid TVIP. The TA/TO named in and submitting the CVP for a CV must 
have a valid TVIP.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-58 
Colorado State Patrol 
 
4 
4.2.2. Complete Application. A CVP application must be completed using the 
forms available from CSP. A CVP application must include the name, 
background experience, operation location, contact information, and any 
other information that may be required by the Chief. Incomplete 
applications will be returned to the submitting TA/TO. 
4.2.3. CV Declaration. The CV that a TA/TO submits for a CVP application must 
include a signed declaration stating that he or she has not been convicted 
of violations of Article 4, Title 18, CRS, within the 10 years before the CVP 
application submission. An original copy of the signed declaration must be 
included with the CVP application. 
4.2.4. CV Training Completion. The CV identified in the CVP application must 
successfully complete the CSP Civilian VIN Training prior to the Chief 
issuing a CVP for the CVP to the TA/TO. 
4.2.4.1. 
In the event a TA/TO submits a CVP application for a CVP 
before a CV successfully completes the CSP Civilian VIN Training, 
an otherwise approved CVP application will remain in a “Pending 
Course Completion” status. The TA/TO must provide information 
confirming that the CV named in the CVP application has signed up 
to attend CSP Civilian VIN Training, and the date of the training 
must be included with the application. 
4.2.4.2. 
Upon confirmation that a CV identified in a CVP has 
successfully completed the CSP Civilian VIN Training, the CVP will 
be issued for the CV to the TA/TO. 
4.2.4.3. 
Upon confirmation that a CV identified in a pending CVP has 
failed to complete the CSP Civilian VIN Training successfully, the 
CVP application will be denied. Written notice of the denial will be 
sent to the TA/TO. 
4.3. 
CV Required: A TA/TO will not allow or promote that a CV verify commercial 
vehicle information before successful completion of the CSP Civilian VIN Training 
by the CV, nor will a TA/TO allow or encourage a CV to verify commercial vehicle 
information on behalf of the TA/TO before a CVP is issued to the TA/TO for the 
CV. 
TVIN 5: 
Authority to Regulate and Inspect 
5.1. 
Authority to Develop and Regulate: Section 42-1-232 (7), CRS, gives the Chief 
the authority to promulgate rules reasonably necessary to implement the TVVP 
as it is outlined in Section 42-1-232 (2), CRS. This authority extends to and 
includes:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-58 
Colorado State Patrol 
 
5 
5.1.1. Applications and Eligibility. The Chief has the authority to establish 
necessary and reasonable application procedures, develop the required 
forms, make additional requests for information, and set applicant 
eligibility requirements for TA/TOs and CVs. 
5.1.2. Program Review. The Chief has the authority to establish procedures 
necessary to measure and enforce compliance among TVVP participants. 
This includes the ability of the CSP to review and inquire into the 
performance of CVs and TA/TOs participating in the TVVP, as is 
consistent with these rules. 
5.1.3. Permit Status and Appeal. The Chief has the authority to deny, apply 
conditions to, cancel, or summarily suspend the use of permits pending a 
cancellation hearing, consistent with these rules. The Chief also has the 
authority to set the appeal rights of TVVP applicants and participants. 
5.1.4. Delegation of Authority. Delegation of any authority held by the Chief 
relevant to the TVVP will occur consistently with applicable CDPS and 
CSP policies and directives. 
5.2. 
Authority to Inspect: CSP has exclusive enforcement authority to perform 
PPCRs and the sole authority to inspect all records relevant to activities 
regulated by these rules. Records relevant to the performance of a TA/TO or a 
CV performing VIN verifications pursuant to Section 42-1-232, CRS, and these 
rules include: 
5.2.1. Completed Verifications. Copies of all commercial vehicle VIN 
verifications completed by CVs employed by or contracted to a TA/TO. 
5.2.2. Relevant Activity Documentation. Copies of all documentation and 
records relevant to the vehicle verification activities of TA/TOs and the 
CVs employed or contracted thereto. 
5.2.2.1. 
“Relevant Records” include information on current or past 
CVs employed by or contracted to a TA/TO during the period a 
TA/TO possesses a valid TVIP. 
5.2.2.2. 
“Relevant Records” do not include any records related to the 
compensation or benefits that are or were received by a CV from a 
TA/TO. 
5.3. 
Authority to Complete PPCRs: CSP has the exclusive authority to conduct 
PPCRs. CSP Enforcement Officials who are certified under 49 CFR 385, Subpart 
C, to perform compliance reviews and safety audits on motor carriers operating 
commercial vehicles within the state of Colorado will also have the authority to 
complete any PPCRs on TA/TOs and CVs participating in the TVVP according to 
these rules.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-58 
Colorado State Patrol 
 
6 
5.3.1. Agreement to Submit to Permit Review. All TVIPs and CVPs issued to 
TA/TOs and for CVs are subject to permit reviews assessing program 
compliance. Acceptance of any permit issued through the TVVP, and 
participation therein, constitutes an agreement to submit to permit reviews 
consistent with these rules. 
5.3.2. Initial Permit Review. All TVIPs and CVPs will be subject to at least one 
permit review by the CSP within 18 months of the date the Chief approves 
the initial permit issued for any TA/TO or CV. 
5.3.3. Routine Permit Reviews. Except for the initial permit review outlined in 
Section 5.3.2 of these rules, all TVIPs and CVPs may be subject to at 
least one permit review every 36 months. At the discretion of the Chief, 
this review may occur concurrently with the review of a permit for renewal. 
5.3.4. Additional Permit Reviews.  TVIPs or CVPs issued to TA/TOs and for 
CVs may be subject to reviews beyond those required by Sections 5.3.2 
and 5.3.3 of these rules, where and when it is determined that additional 
review of permit use is necessary or appropriate. Further reviews may be 
determined appropriate or necessary if: 
5.3.4.1. 
The CSP receives complaints about a TA/TO or a CV that 
raise concerns about the compliance of either with applicable 
statutes and/or these rules. 
5.3.4.2. 
It is determined that a review of records relevant to an 
appeal challenging the summary suspension or cancellation of a 
TVIP or CVP is necessary to facilitate a final agency decision 
consistent with Sections 6.9 and 7.10 of these rules. 
TVIN 6: 
TVIP Approval, Conditions, Denial, Summary Suspension, 
Cancellation, and Appeal 
6.1. 
Written Approval: Approval of all TVIP applications will be in writing. Approved 
TVIP applications will include a copy of the TVIP issued to the TA/TO, signed by 
the Chief. 
6.2. 
TVIP Conditions: TVIPs are issued pursuant to compliance with applicable 
conditions. Conditions applicable to all TVIPs are: 
6.2.1. Active Period. TVIPs will be valid for a period not to exceed 36 months. 
At the end of 36 months, a TA/TO must renew the TVIP by completing a 
new TVIP application. 
6.2.2. Appropriate Use. TVIPs must be used in a manner consistent with 
applicable statutes and these rules.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-58 
Colorado State Patrol 
 
7 
6.2.3. Permit Review. TA/TOs holding TVIPs must submit to review at least 
once every 36 months. The results of a permit review must find that a 
TA/TO complies with all terms, conditions, statutes, and rules applicable to 
the use of the TVIP and any CVPs issued thereto. 
6.2.4. Additional Reviews. Satisfactory completion of any review conducted by 
a CSP CVSA certified Enforcement Official consistent with these rules, as 
may be applicable. 
6.2.5. Additional Conditions. The Chief reserves the right to attach specific, 
additional conditions to any TVIP where the Chief determines it is 
necessary and in the public safety’s best interests. 
6.3. 
TVIP Availability: A TVIP must be available for inspection upon demand by the 
CSP at the office of the TA/TO during regular business hours. 
6.4. 
Non-Transferable: A TVIP is not transferable. 
6.5. 
Affect Lawful Authority: Issuance and the subsequent use of a TVIP by a 
TA/TO does not: 
6.5.1. Affect the right of any lawful authority to check for valid state-issued ID 
and/or operating credentials a TA/TO may issue to a CV. 
6.5.2. Affect the right of any lawful authority to confirm with the Chief that a 
TA/TO has a valid TVIP or CVP(s) for its CV(s). 
6.6. 
TVIP Application Denial: Denial of a TVIP application will be in writing. The 
Chief may deny a TVIP when: 
6.6.1. Incomplete. A TVIP application is incomplete if any required fields are 
blank or if any required documentation is not included. 
6.6.2. Ineligible Applicant. An applicant submitting a TVIP application does not 
meet the definition of a TA/TO as set forth within these rules. 
6.6.3. Financial Responsibility. If the Chief is unable to verify that a TA/TO has 
a savings account or a certificate of deposit meeting the requirements of 
Section 11-35-101, CRS, or a surety bond, each satisfying the monetary 
amounts established by Section 42-1-232 (3) (C), CRS, and these rules. 
6.6.4. Misrepresentation. A TVIP application is determined to contain or assert 
one or more misrepresentations. 
6.6.5. Recordkeeping. A TA/TO does not agree to maintain and provide records 
upon request as required by these rules.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-58 
Colorado State Patrol 
 
8 
6.6.6. No or Invalid Permit(s). It is determined that a TA/TO previously 
employed/contracted or currently employs/contracts a CV in the absence 
of a valid TVIP or CVP. 
6.6.7. Article 4, Title 18, CRS. It is determined that a TA/TO previously 
employed/contracted or currently employs/contracts a CV convicted of 
offenses of Article 4, Title 18, CRS, in the 10-years before submission of 
the TVIP application. 
6.6.8. Incompetent. It is determined that a TA/TO is or has been found 
incompetent by the Chief for failing to adequately verify commercial 
vehicle information, including VINs, as a vehicle-related entity. 
6.6.9. Misuse. It is determined that a TA/TO previously misused a TVIP or the 
authority provided thereby or has otherwise operated in a manner 
inconsistent with or in violation of applicable statutes or these rules. 
6.6.10. Appeal. A TA/TO may appeal the denial of a TVIP in a manner consistent 
with Section 6.9 of these rules. 
6.7. 
Summary Suspension: A TVIP may be summarily suspended for up to 60 days, 
pending a TVIP cancellation hearing. Summary suspension of a TVIP may occur 
when the Chief determines that irreparable harm may occur if a TA/TO continues 
to use their TVIP to complete third-party verifications of commercial vehicle 
information, including VINs, as a vehicle-related entity. 
6.7.1. Notice. Notice of the summary suspension of a TVIP will be provided in 
writing and consistent with Section 24-4-104, CRS. 
6.7.2. Appeal. A TA/TO may appeal a summary suspension in writing in a 
manner consistent with the appeal of a TVIP cancellation set forth within 
Section 6.9 of these rules. 
6.7.3. Final Decision. After 60 days and an opportunity to appeal the decision to 
the Chief, the decision to summarily suspend a TVIP pending a 
cancellation hearing will become final. 
6.8. 
Cancellation: The Chief may cancel a TVIP when: 
6.8.1. Ineligible. A TVIP holder no longer satisfies the definition of a TA/TO as 
set forth in these rules. 
6.8.2. Compliance. A TA/TO fails to operate consistently with Section 42-1-232, 
CRS, and these rules. 
6.8.3. Misrepresentation. It is discovered that a TA/TO asserted or supported a 
misrepresentation in a TVIP or CVP application.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-58 
Colorado State Patrol 
 
9 
6.8.4. Recordkeeping. A TA/TO is discovered or determined to have failed to 
maintain or produce in response to a request from the CSP copies of all 
relevant documentation related to participation in the TVVP, including: 
6.8.4.1. 
Copies of all commercial vehicle verifications completed. 
6.8.4.2. 
Copies of all receipts or invoices issued for completed 
commercial vehicle VIN verifications. 
6.8.4.3. 
Copies of all related documents for CVs currently or 
previously employed/contracted by a TA/TO during an active TVIP 
period, plus 6 months. 
6.8.5. Notice of Separation. A TA/TO fails to provide sufficient written notice to 
the Chief of the separation of employment or termination of contract with a 
CV for which a CVP has been issued to the TA/TO. To be sufficient, 
written notice must be provided within 7 days of the date of separation or 
termination. 
6.8.5.1. 
Alleged or Actual CVP Misconduct. When separation of 
employment or contractual termination between a TA/TO and a CV 
involves actual or alleged misconduct directly related to the 
performance of commercial vehicle VIN verification inspections, the 
TA/TO must include, as part of the written notice of separation, a 
detailed statement. The statement must identify the misconduct 
alleged. Failure to include this information will result in the written 
notice being determined insufficient by the Chief. 
6.8.6. TVIP Cancellation. Cancellation of a TVIP held by a TA/TO will result in 
the subsequent cancellation of all CVPs held by the same TA/TO. 
6.9. 
Right to Appeal- TVIPs: Within 60 days of receiving written notice from the 
Chief denying, summarily suspending, or canceling a TVIP, a TA/TO may 
request a hearing. 
6.9.1. Appeal Request. A request for a hearing on a denied TVIP application, or 
a cancelled or summarily suspended TVIP, must: 
6.9.1.1. 
Be in writing, addressed to the Chief. 
6.9.1.2. 
Explain the error asserted to have occurred, resulting in the 
incorrect denial, cancellation, or summary suspension of a TVIP 
application or permit. 
6.9.2. Appeal Hearing. The Chief will hold the hearing. 
6.9.2.1. 
The scope of the hearing will be limited to whether a TA/TO 
is eligible to hold a TVIP.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-58 
Colorado State Patrol 
 
10 
6.9.2.2. 
Where the appeal involves the cancellation of an existing 
TVIP, the scope of the hearing will include a discussion of a 
TA/TO’s compliance with applicable statutes and these rules. 
6.9.3. Appeal Decision. The Chief will issue a written decision within 20 
business days of the completed hearing. 
6.9.3.1. 
If the Chief finds evidence of noncompliance or ineligibility 
sufficient to sustain the denial, summary suspension, or 
cancellation of a TVIP, the prior decision to deny, summarily 
suspend, or cancel a TVIP will be sustained. 
6.9.3.2. 
If the Chief finds evidence of noncompliance or ineligibility 
insufficient to sustain the denial, summary suspension, or 
cancellation of a TVIP, the prior decision to deny, summarily 
suspend, or cancel a TVIP will be reversed, and the application 
approved or the prior permit reinstated. 
6.9.3.3. 
The decision of the Chief in either case will constitute a final 
agency action subject to judicial review as set forth by Section 24-
4-106, CRS. 
TVIN 7: 
CVP Approval, Conditions, Denial, Summary Suspension, 
Cancellation, and Appeal 
7.1. 
Written Approval: Approval of all CVP applications will be in writing from the 
Chief. All approved CVP applications will include a copy of the CVP issued for 
the CV, to the TA/TO, and will be signed by the Chief. 
7.2. 
CVP Conditions: All CVPs are issued pursuant to compliance with applicable 
conditions. Conditions applicable to all CVPs are: 
7.2.1. Active Conditions. CVPs will be issued for a period not to exceed 36 
months, at which time the TA/TO must complete a CVP application to 
renew the permit. 
7.2.1.1. 
Effect of Separation. A CVP issued for a CV to a TA/TO will 
immediately become invalid upon the separation of employment or 
the termination of a contract between a CV and a TA/TO. 
7.2.2. Compliance. A TA/TO must comply with the CVP requirements 
established by Section 42-1-232 (2) – (4), CRS. A TA/TO and a CV must 
use a CVP consistent with these rules. 
7.2.3. Training. An individual for whom a CVP is issued to a TA/TO must 
successfully complete the CSP Civilian VIN Training Course.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-58 
Colorado State Patrol 
 
11 
7.2.4. Article 4, Title 18, CRS. Absence of any convictions against the CV 
identified in a CVP for violations of Article 4, Title 18, CRS, within the 10 
years before the submission of the CVP application. Similarly, the CV 
cannot be convicted of violations of Article 4, Title 18, CRS, during the 
active period during which the CVP is issued. 
7.3. 
CVP Availability: A CVP must be available for inspection by CSP at the office of 
the TA/TO during regular business hours. 
7.4. 
Non-Transferrable: A CVP is not transferable. 
7.5. 
Effect on Lawful Authority: The issuance and subsequent use of a CVP does 
not: 
7.5.1. Affect the right of any lawful authority to check for valid state-issued ID 
and/or operating credentials that a TA/TO may issue to a CV. 
7.5.2. Affect the right of any lawful authority to confirm with the Chief that a CV is 
operating pursuant to a valid CVP. 
7.6. 
CVP Specific to TA/TO: A CVP is valid only when used by a CV operating on 
behalf of the TA/TO to whom the CVP is issued. 
7.6.1. The Chief may approve CVP applications submitted by more than one 
TA/TO for a single CV. 
7.6.2. If a CV is employed by or contracted with more than one TA/TO, each 
TA/TO must complete a separate CVP application for the CV. 
7.6.3. Prior approval of a CVP application for a CV employed by or contracted 
with a TA/TO does not guarantee approval of a subsequent CVP 
application from another TA/TO for the same CV. 
7.7. 
CVP Denial: The Chief may deny a CVP application in writing when: 
7.7.1. No TVIP. The TA/TO submitting the CVP application does not have a valid 
TVIP. 
7.7.2. Ineligible Applicant. The TA/TO submitting the CVP application fails to 
meet the definition of a TA/TO as defined in these rules. 
7.7.3. Incomplete. The CVP application or the required documentation to 
support the application is determined to be incomplete. 
7.7.4. No Affiliation With TA/TO. The CV identified in the CVP application is not 
employed by or contracted with the TA/TO identified within and submitting 
the application.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-58 
Colorado State Patrol 
 
12 
7.7.5. Training. The CV identified in the CVP application fails to complete the 
CSP Civilian VIN Training Course successfully. 
7.7.6. Article 4, Title 18, CRS. The CV identified in a CVP application is 
determined to have been convicted of violations of Article 4, Title 18, CRS, 
within 10 years before the date of the CVP application submission. 
7.7.7. Written Declaration. The CV identified in the CVP application fails to 
complete a written declaration confirming that he or she has not been 
convicted of a violation of Article 4, Title 18, CRS, in the 10 years before 
the date of the CVP application submission. An original copy of the signed 
declaration must be included with the application submission. 
7.7.8. Misrepresentation. The CVP application is determined to contain or 
assert misrepresentations. 
7.7.9. Incompetence. The TA/TO submitting the CVP application or the CV for 
which the CVP is being submitted is or has been previously determined to 
be incompetent because of failing to adequately verify commercial vehicle 
information, including VINs, as a vehicle-related entity. 
7.7.10. 
Misuse. It is determined that the TA/TO submitting the CVP or the 
CV for which the CVP is being submitted has been previously determined 
to have misused the TVIP or CVP or otherwise is found to have operated 
in an inconsistent manner, or in violation of applicable statutes or rules. 
7.8. 
CVP Summary Suspension: A CVP may be summarily suspended for up to 60 
days, pending a cancellation hearing. Summary suspension of a CVP may occur 
where it is determined that irreparable harm will occur if either the TA/TO or the 
CV for which the CVP is issued continues to verify commercial vehicle 
information, including VINs. 
7.8.1. Notice. Notice of summary suspension of a CVP will occur in writing and 
will be addressed to the TA/TO and the CV, consistent with Section 24-4-
104, CRS. 
7.8.2. Appeal. Either the TA/TO or the CV may appeal the summary suspension 
of a CVP in writing, in a manner consistent with the appeal of a 
cancellation of a CVP by either a TA/TO or a CV as outlined in 7.10 of 
these rules. 
7.8.3. Final Decision. After 60 days, and an opportunity to appeal a summary 
suspension in writing to the Chief, the decision to summarily suspend a 
CVP pending a cancellation hearing will become final. 
7.9. 
CVP Cancellation: A CVP may be canceled when: 
7.9.1. Ineligible TA/TO. A TA/TO is determined to no longer hold a valid TVIP.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-58 
Colorado State Patrol 
 
13 
7.9.2. No Affiliation. A CV is no longer employed or contracted by a TA/TO. 
7.9.3. Article 4, Title 18, CRS. A CV is convicted of an offense of Article 4, Title 
18, CRS, while employed or contracted by a TA/TO or within 10 years 
before the date of the CVP application submission by the TA/TO. 
7.9.4. Verification Absent CVP. It is determined that the CV knowingly 
completed third-party verifications of commercial vehicle information, 
including VINs, when employed by a vehicle-related entity, including a 
TA/TO as defined by these rules. 
7.9.5. Incompetence. The CV is found incompetent for failing to properly verify 
commercial vehicle information, including VINs, when employed by a 
vehicle-related entity, including a TA/TO as defined by these rules. 
7.9.6. Subsequent Cancellation. The cancellation of a CVP issued to a TA/TO 
for a CV will not necessarily result in the cancellation of any other CVP or 
TVIP issued to a TA/TO or the cancellation of a CVP for the same CV to 
another TA/TO. 
7.9.7. Subsequent Review. The cancellation of a CVP issued to a TA/TO for a 
CV may result in the subsequent review of CVPs issued for the same CV 
to other TA/TOs. 
7.10. Right to Appeal: Within 60 days of receiving written notice from the Chief 
denying, summarily suspending, or canceling a CVP, the TA/TO or CV identified 
within the CVP application or permit may request a hearing appealing the 
decision. 
7.10.1. 
Appeal Request. A request appealing a decision by the Chief to 
deny a CVP application or to suspend or cancel a CVP summarily must: 
7.10.1.1. 
Be in writing and addressed to the Chief. 
7.10.1.2. 
Explain why the TA/TO or CV believes the denial of the 
application, or summary suspension, or cancellation of a CVP is in 
error. 
7.10.2. 
Appeal Hearing. The Chief will hold the hearing. 
7.10.2.1. 
The scope of the hearing will be limited to the CVP 
application or permit appealed, regardless of any other CVPs 
applied for or held by a TA/TO or that identify a CV. 
7.10.2.2. 
Where the appeal involves the cancellation of an existing 
CVP, the scope of the hearing will include a discussion of 
compliance with these rules by the TA/TO and/or the CV as may be 
relevant.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-58 
Colorado State Patrol 
 
14 
7.10.3. 
Appeal Decision. The Chief will issue a written decision within 20 
business days of the completed hearing. 
7.10.3.1. 
If the Chief finds evidence of noncompliance or ineligibility 
sufficient to sustain the denial, summary suspension, or 
cancellation of a CVP, the prior decision will be sustained. 
7.10.3.2. 
If the Chief finds the evidence is insufficient to sustain the 
prior decision of denial, summary suspension, or cancellation of a 
CVP, the denial, summary suspension, or cancellation will be 
reversed, and the application will be approved, or the prior permit 
will be reinstated. 
7.10.3.3. 
The decision of the Chief, in either case, will constitute final 
agency action subject to judicial review consistent with Section 24-
4-106, CRS. 
TVIN 8: 
Agency Document Retention, References, and Public Information 
8.1. 
Document Retention: Copies of all documents received by the CSP from 
applicants, TA/TOs, or CVs consistent with these rules, and copies of any 
reviews completed by CSP Enforcement Officials on any TA/TOs or CVs 
participating in the TVVP will be maintained by the CSP. Documents will be kept 
consistent with the state of Colorado document retention guidelines or as 
specifically set forth in Title 24, Article 80 of the CRS. 
8.2. 
Referenced Publications: All publications, standards, guidelines, and rules 
adopted and/or incorporated by reference by these rules are on file and available 
for examination at any state publications depository library as required by Section 
24-4-103 (12.5), CRS. These rules reference the following publications, 
standards, guidelines, and rules, consistent with Section 24-4-103 (12.5), CRS. 
8.2.1. Alternatives to Surety Bonds Permitted- Requirements- Definition. 
Section 11-35-101, CRS. 
8.2.2. Offenses Against Property. Article 4, Title 18, CRS. 
8.2.3. Judicial Review. Section 24-4-106, CRS. 
8.2.4. Vehicles and Traffic. Articles 1 – 6, Title 42, CRS, as applicable. 
8.3. 
Availability of Publications and Other Documents: All publications, standards, 
guidelines, and forms generated by the CSP to support the TVVP and these 
rules are available for public inspection upon request by contacting the Colorado 
State Patrol Central Records Unit (CRU) at 700 Kipling St., Lakewood, CO., 
80215, 303-239-4180 or CDPS_csprecords@state.co.us or online at 
https://csp.colorado.gov/talk-with-us/central-records-unit. These rules and the 
referenced materials listed in Section 8.2 are also available online at no charge.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-58 
Colorado State Patrol 
 
15 
8.3.1. The CSP will maintain copies of the complete texts of these rules and 
references identified in 8.2 of these rules and will make them available for 
public inspection during regular business hours as defined within these 
rules. Parties may request copies of these documents for a reasonable fee 
through the CSP CRU. These rules and the referenced publication listed 
in Section 8.2 of these rules are also available online at no charge. 
8.3.2. Copies of these rules are accessible online through the CDPS Rulemaking 
Information website, https://publicsafety.colorado.gov/cdps-rules-and-
regulations. 
8.3.3. Copies of the Colorado Revised Statutes are accessible online through a 
link available on the Colorado General Assembly website at 
https://leg.colorado.gov/laws/colorado-revised-statutes. 
8.4. 
Later Amendments: Except for any amendments to the CRS, these rules do not 
include later amendments to or editions of any publication, standards, guidelines, 
or rules incorporated by reference herein. 
8.5. 
Severability: If any provision of these rules or the application thereof to any 
person or circumstance is determined to be unlawful or invalid, the remaining 
provisions of these rules will not be affected, absent a specific reference to the 
removal or excision thereof. 
8.6. 
Inquiries: Address all inquiries or contact with the CSP concerning these rules, 
their applicability, or the TVVP to: 
Colorado State Patrol 
Criminal Investigations Branch 
Investigative Services Section 
15204 W. 12TH Ave. 
Golden, CO., 80401 
303-273-1771 (Phone) 
303-273-1822 (Fax)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-58 
Colorado State Patrol 
 
16 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 10/15/2020. 
Entire rule eff. 04/01/2024. 
Entire rule eff. 04/01/2026.
