---
id: "8_CCR_1501-10"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1501-10"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=11152&fileName=8%20CCR%201501-10&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1501-10. 8 CCR 1501-10

1 
OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR 
Colorado Energy Office 
REGULATION 1 - COMMUNITY ACCESS ENTERPRISE RETAIL DELIVERY FEE 
8 CCR 1501-10 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
1.1 
AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE 
1.1.1 
Authority 
The Community Access Enterprise Board (the “Board”) shall administer the Community Access 
Enterprise Fund (the “Fund”) created under § 24-38.5-303(5)(a), C.R.S. The Fund consists of: 
1.1.1.1 Community access retail delivery fee revenue; 
1.1.1.2 Monetary gifts, grants, donations, or other payments received by the Community Access 
Enterprise (the “Enterprise”); 
(a) 
Gifts, grants, or donations from private or public sources can be accepted to 
benefit the establishment and operation of the Board so long as the total amount 
of all grants from Colorado state and local governments received in any state 
fiscal year is less than ten percent of the Enterprise's total annual revenue for the 
state fiscal year. 
1.1.1.3 Any federal money that may be credited to the Fund; and 
1.1.1.4 Any other money that the general assembly may appropriate or transfer to the Fund. 
1.1.2 
Purpose 
1.1.2.1 Pursuant to § 24-38.5-303(8), C.R.S., the enterprise is authorized to implement grant, 
loan, or rebate programs for the following purposes: 
(a) 
To fund the construction of electric motor vehicle charging infrastructure including 
but not limited to: 
(I) 
Public, workplace, transportation network company, and multifamily 
electric vehicle chargers; 
(II) 
Electric vehicle chargers for communities, including but not limited to 
disproportionately impacted communities; 
(III) 
Electric vehicle chargers for medium-duty electric motor vehicles and 
heavy-duty electric motor vehicles, including electrified refrigerated 
trailers; 
(IV) 
Infrastructure needs to support the powering of hydrogen fuel cell motor 
vehicles; and 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1501-10 
Colorado Energy Office 
 
2 
(V) 
Networks and plazas of direct current charging infrastructure that offer 
fast charging for electric motor vehicles; 
(b) 
To provide inexpensive and accessible electric alternatives to motor vehicles 
such as electrical assisted bicycles and electric scooters; 
(c) 
To support the adoption of electric motor vehicles in communities, including but 
not limited to disproportionately impacted communities, including by incentivizing 
replacement of high-emitting motor vehicles with electric motor vehicles; and 
(d) 
To provide incentives for transportation network companies and companies that 
rent motor vehicles to transportation network company drivers for use in 
providing transportation network company services to increase access to 
overnight charging capability for drivers. 
1.1.3 
Definitions 
1.1.3.1 ‘Board’ means the governing board of the Enterprise as defined in § 24-38.5-303(2), 
C.R.S. 
1.1.3.2 ‘Community access retail delivery fee’ or ‘retail delivery fee’ means the fee added to the 
price of retail deliveries by each retailer who makes a retail delivery. A retailer may elect 
to pay the retail delivery fee on behalf of a purchaser. 
1.1.3.3 ‘Department’ means the department of revenue. 
1.1.3.4 ‘Enterprise’ means the Community Access Enterprise created in § 24-38.5-303, C.R.S. 
1.1.3.5 ‘Fee payer’ means any person or entity or group of persons or entities that pays the retail 
delivery fee on retail deliveries of tangible personal property. 
1.1.3.6 ‘Fund’ means the Community Access Enterprise Fund created within the state treasury 
pursuant to § 24-38.5-303(5)(a), C.R.S. 
1.1.3.7 “Qualified business” means a retailer that in the previous calendar year made retail sales 
of tangible personal property, commodities, or services in the state totaling five hundred 
thousand dollars or less. 
1.1.3.8 ‘Retail delivery’ means a retail sale of tangible personal property by a retailer for delivery 
by a motor vehicle owned or operated by the retailer or any other person to the purchaser 
at a location in this state, which sale includes at least one item of tangible personal 
property that is subject to taxation. Each such retail sale is a single retail delivery 
regardless of the number of shipments necessary to deliver the items of tangible personal 
property purchased. 
1.1.3.9 ‘Retail sale’ includes all sales made within the state except wholesale sales. 
1.1.3.10 
‘Retailer’ means a person doing business in this state known to the trade and 
public as such, and selling to the user or consumer, and not for resale. The term includes 
a marketplace facilitator, a marketplace seller, and a multichannel seller doing business 
in this state. If the retailer had no retail sales in the state in the previous calendar year, 
then the retailer is deemed to be a “qualified business” for the current calendar year, until 
the first day of the month after the ninetieth day after the retailer has made sales of 
tangible personal property, commodities or services in the state that total more than five 
hundred thousand dollars.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1501-10 
Colorado Energy Office 
 
3 
1.1.3.11 
‘Tangible personal property’ means all goods, wares, merchandise, products and 
commodities, and all tangible or corporeal things and substances that are dealt in and 
capable of being possessed and exchanged. The term does not include newspapers or 
preprinted newspaper supplements that become attached to or inserted in and distributed 
with such newspaper as excluded in § 39-26-102(15)(a)(I), C.R.S. 
1.1.4 
Severability 
Each provision of this regulation shall be deemed severable, and in the event that any provision of this 
regulation is held to be invalid, the remainder of this regulation shall continue in full force and effect. 
1.2 
RETAIL DELIVERY FEE 
The retail delivery fee, as established by the Board, will be collected for retail deliveries of tangible 
personal property purchases which in the aggregate, reflect the cost of the services provided. The Board 
shall impose, and the department of revenue shall collect on behalf of the Enterprise, the retail delivery 
fee on each retail delivery. 
1.2.1 
The retail delivery fee shall be set at six and nine-tenths cent as authorized by § 24-38.5-
303(7)(b), C.R.S. 
1.2.1.1 The retail delivery fee shall be adjusted for inflation on an annual basis starting in fiscal 
year 2023-24. 
1.2.2 
The retail delivery fee shall be collected by the department on behalf of the Enterprise beginning 
on July 1, 2022. 
1.2.3 
As of July 1, 2023, retail deliveries by qualified businesses are exempt from the retail delivery fee. 
1.2.4 
Each retailer who makes a retail delivery shall add to the price of the retail delivery, collect from 
the purchaser or may elect to pay the retail delivery fee on behalf of a purchaser, and submit 
payment to the department at the time and in the manner prescribed by the department in 
accordance with § 43-4-218(6), C.R.S. 
1.3 
OTHER REVENUES, PAYMENTS, GRANTS, GIFTS AND DONATIONS 
1.3.1 
Nothing in this rule limits or precludes the Fund from receiving other revenues, payments, grants, 
gifts and donations as allowed by § 24-38.5-303, C.R.S. or other statute. 
2.1 
STATEMENT OF BASIS AND PURPOSE 
2.1.1 
Jul 13, 2023 
Basis and Purpose 
Pursuant to § 24-38.5-303, C.R.S., the Enterprise functions as a government-owned business that 
provides statutorily specified services to fee payers. It collects fees for a primary purpose of equitably 
supporting the widespread adoption of electric motor vehicles, including motor vehicles that originally 
were powered exclusively by internal combustion engines but have been converted into electric motor 
vehicles. Expenditures of Enterprise revenue may provide benefits to the public or third parties. 
The Board, through development and approval of the Ten-Year Plan, will outline programs and 
recommendations that meet the objectives of the enterprise business purpose.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1501-10 
Colorado Energy Office 
 
4 
To minimize the administrative costs associated with the fee rule to further the purposes and mission of 
the Enterprise, the department of revenue shall collect and administer the community access retail 
delivery fee on behalf of the Enterprise. 
Statutory Authority 
To fund its activities, the Board must establish fees, as authorized in § 24-38.5-303(7), C.R.S. This rule 
sets up the retail delivery fee that will be paid into the Fund beginning in state fiscal year 2022-23. 
In 2023, the General Assembly passed Senate Bill 23-143, which created the retail delivery fee 
exemption for qualified businesses and permitted retailers to pay the retail delivery fee on behalf of a 
purchaser rather than collect payment from each retailer on each retail sale. 
Other revenues, payments, grants, gifts and donations 
Payment into the Fund may also occur through the receipt of other revenues, payments, gifts, grants, and 
donations. 
Future fee revisions 
Starting in fiscal year 2023-24, the Board, with assistance from the department, will revisit the retail 
delivery fee annually to adjust the fee for inflation. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 07/01/2022. 
Entire rule eff. 11/14/2023.
