---
id: "8_CCR_1203-22"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1203-22"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=11855&fileName=8%20CCR%201203-22&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1203-22. 8 CCR 1203-22

1 
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 
Plant Industry Division 
RULES AND REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO THE COLORADO SEED POTATO ACT 
8 CCR 1203-22 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Part 1.0 
Definitions: 
These Rules incorporate the definitions set forth in §35-27.3-103, C.R.S. 
Part 2.0 
Requirements for All Certified Seed Potatoes 
2.1.0 
Pursuant to § 35-27.3-108(1)(b)(II), C.R.S., all certified seed potatoes planted in Colorado in lots 
sufficient to plant one or more acres as specified in Part 9.0 must meet the following 
requirements: 
2.1.1 
Based on the postharvest test, the lot may contain no more than 5% tubers with virus, 
including no more than 1% PVYN serotype strains (PVYN and PVYNTN). 
2.1.2 
No tubers may contain any Mop Top or Tobacco Rattle Virus; 
2.1.3 
The lot must be free of Bacterial Ring Rot (Clavibacter michiganensis subsp. 
Sepedonicus) and Golden nematode (Globodera rostochiensis), 
2.1.4 
All seed potatoes imported into the San Luis Valley must meet the requirements of the 
Quarantine for Late Blight, 8 CCR 1203-13. 
2.2.0 
Growers must maintain documentation of compliance with these disease standards for a period of 
two years for each lot of seed potatoes planted. 
Part 3.0 
Requirements for Sampling, Testing, and Evaluation of Uncertified Seed Potatoes 
3.1.0 
Uncertified seed potatoes more than one year removed from certification may only be planted if 
the testing in 3.2.2 verifies the lot meets the disease standards in Part 4.0. 
3.2.0 
Pursuant to § 35-27.3-105(2)(b), C.R.S., uncertified seed potatoes more than one year removed 
from certification must be sampled and tested in the following manner prior to planting. 
3.2.1 
Sampling 
3.2.1.1 The grower must provide a sample of 200 tubers for each lot along with name of 
the grower, cultivar name and source of the cultivar to the Colorado State 
University San Luis Valley Research Center Laboratory or other laboratory 
designated by the certifying authority for testing. 
3.2.2 
Testing 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-22 
Plant Industry Division 
 
2 
3.2.2.1 A 200 tuber sample for each lot to be planted must be analyzed by the Colorado 
State University San Luis Valley Research Center Laboratory or other laboratory 
designated by the certifying authority for all disease standards specified in Part 
4.0 of this Rule. 
3.3.0 
Sampling, Testing and Evaluation Requirements for Uncertified Seed Potatoes No More Than 
One Generation from Certified or Qualified Parent Potatoes. 
3.3.1 
No later than November 1, 2025, and by each November 1 thereafter, a grower must 
submit a sample of 200 tubers for each lot collected in accordance with the certifying 
authority’s sample collection procedures and including the name of the grower, cultivar 
name, source of the cultivar, and hundredweight of the lot intended for planting the 
following year, to the Colorado State University San Luis Valley Research Center 
Laboratory or other laboratory designated by the certifying authority for testing. 
3.3.1.1 The certifying authority or its designee must analyze the samples from each lot to 
determine that each lot meets the disease standard established in Part 3.3.4. 
3.3.1.2 Uncertified seed potatoes may not be planted unless the grower receives 
approval from the certifying authority indicating that the uncertified potatoes 
submitted for testing in November have met the standard established in April of 
that same year. 
3.3.2 
No later than January 2, 2026, and by each January 2 thereafter, the certifying authority 
will transmit results of its testing in writing to the grower and, starting January 2, 2027, will 
include approval of the uncertified seed potatoes for planting if the standard established 
the previous April for those uncertified seed potatoes has been met. 
3.3.3 
No later than February 15, 2026, and by each February 15 thereafter, the certifying 
authority will transmit an aggregate summary of the results described in Part 3.3.2 above 
to the Seed Potato Advisory Committee established at § 35-27.3-107, C.R.S., and to the 
Commissioner or the Commissioner’s designee. This summary must not include 
information that allows a grower or that grower’s operation to be identified. 
3.3.4 
No later than April 1, 2026, and by each April 1 thereafter, the Commissioner, in 
consultation with the Seed Potato Advisory Committee established at § 35-27.3-107, 
C.R.S., will review the results transmitted per Part 3.3.3 above and set a disease 
standard based on those results. This standard will apply to samples submitted in 
November in accordance with Part 3.3.1 and will determine whether those uncertified 
seed potatoes can be planted the following year. 
3.3.4.1  As soon as practicable following the determination of the disease standard in 
Part 3.3.4, the Commissioner or the Commissioner’s designee will publish the 
standard applicable to next year’s planting to the certifying authority and to 
growers in a form and manner designated by the Commissioner, which form may 
include, but is not limited to, written correspondence, electronic mail, or website 
publication. 
3.3.5 
Any deadline established in this Part 3 may be extended upon request and made 
effective by written permission of the Commissioner or the Commissioner’s designee 
upon a showing of good cause by the requestor. 
3.3.6 
The grower is responsible for all costs associated with sampling and testing described in 
this Part 3.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-22 
Plant Industry Division 
 
3 
Part 4.0 
Quality and Disease Standards for Uncertified Seed Potatoes 
4.1.0 
Pursuant to § 35-27.3-108(1)(b)(IV), C.R.S., all uncertified seed potatoes more than one year 
removed from certification that are planted in lots sufficient to plant one or more acres as 
specified in Part 9.0 shall not exceed the disease standards specified in paragraph E.1.iii, 
“Special Requirements for Post Harvest Test (Disease Tolerances)” set forth in the “Colorado 
State University Colorado Potato Certification Service Rules and Regulations for Certification of 
Seed Potatoes”. 
4.1.1 
The above referenced paragraph of the Colorado State University Colorado Potato 
Certification Service Rules and Regulations for Certification of Seed Potatoes, dated 
January 2024 and published by Colorado State University in cooperation with the 
Colorado Certified Potato Growers Association, is hereby incorporated by reference and 
made a part of these Rules. Material incorporated by reference does not include any later 
amendments or editions of the incorporated material. Copies of the above referenced 
material are available for public inspection during regular business hours at the Colorado 
Department of Agriculture, 305 Interlocken Parkway, Broomfield, Colorado 80021. The 
material incorporated by reference is also available through the Colorado Potato 
Certification Service at https://www.potatoslvrc.com/our-team/about-us/programs/potato-
certification-service/resource-center-links/. 
4.1.2 
All of the tubers must be free from Bacterial Ring Rot (Clavibacter michiganensis subsp. 
Sepedonicus), Golden nematode (Globodera rostenchiensis), Late Blight (Phytophthora 
infestans), and Tobacco Rattle Virus (visual symptoms). 
4.1.3 
Notwithstanding paragraph 4.1.0 above, the standard applicable for PVY is that standard 
established per Part 3.3.4 above. 
4.2.0 
Pursuant to § 35-27.3-108(1)(b)(IV), C.R.S., all uncertified seed potatoes no more than 
generation removed from certification that are planted in lots sufficient to plant one or more acres 
as specified in Part 9.0 must be tested by the certifying authority or its designee for PVY and, to 
be planted, must meet the standard established per Part 3.3.4 above. 
4.3.0 
Growers must maintain documentation of compliance with the disease standards specified in this 
Part 4.0 for a period of two years for each lot of seed potatoes planted. 
Part 5.0 
Random Selection of Potato Growers for Records Review. 
5.1.0 
Each year by April 1, the Colorado Potato Administration Committee (CPAC) offices for areas 2 
and 3 shall submit a list of all potato growers to the Department. 
5.2.0 
The Department will select at least ten percent of the growers at random using computer based 
random number generating software. 
5.3.0 
The Department will conduct records inspections on the selected growers. 
Part 6.0 
Grower Requests for Exemptions under §35.27.3-105(3), C.R.S. 
6.1.0 
The grower must apply to the Seed Potato Advisory Committee by completing and submitting the 
official form to the Colorado Potato Administrative Committee office for the area in which the 
grower is located. 
6.2.0 
The Commissioner shall notify the grower when an exemption is authorized.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-22 
Plant Industry Division 
 
4 
Part 7.0 
Requirements for seed potatoes planted under § 35-27.3-105(3) C.R.S. 
7.1.0 
Seed potatoes granted an exemption pursuant to § 35-27.3-105(3), C.R.S., may not be planted 
unless a 200 tuber sample from the lot is submitted for testing to the certifying authority or its 
designee or unless the lot has been previously tested by the certifying authority during the 
relevant exemption year as part of the certifying authority’s seed potato certification program. 
7.1.1 
The lot must be free from Bacterial Ring Rot (Clavibacter michiganensis subsp. 
Sepedonicus) and Late Blight (Phytophthora infestans). 
Part 8.0 
Fee schedule for services performed by the Department 
8.1.0 
The Department shall bill the CPAC area offices for services performed by the Department at the 
following rates: 
8.1.1 
Hourly fee: $47.00; 
8.1.2 
Mileage: Cost charged by Colorado State Fleet Management for state vehicles, the state 
personal mileage rate when using private vehicles; and 
8.1.3 
Per Diem: State rates. 
Part 9.0 
Seed potatoes needed to plant one or more acres. 
9.1.0 
For the purposes of the Colorado Seed Potato Act and these Rules, the amount of potatoes 
sufficient to plant one or more acres shall be up to fifty hundredweight of seed potatoes. 
Part 10.0 – 12.0 
Reserved 
Part 13.0 
Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose 
13.1.0 June 14, 2011 - Effective January 1, 2012 
Statutory Authority 
These rules are proposed for adoption by the Commissioner of the Colorado Department of 
Agriculture (“CDA”) pursuant to his authority under the Colorado Seed Potato Act (the “Act”) §§ 
35-27.3-101 through 112, C.R.S. 
Purpose 
The purpose of these proposed rules is to implement the Colorado Seed Potato Act. 
Part 1.0 explains where the definitions for terms used in the rules can be found and states that 
the definitions in the Act are applicable to the rules. 
Part 2.0 states the requirements of the State National Harmonization Program and lists which 
quarantines are applicable to seed potatoes. 
Part 3.0 states the requirements for compliance verification, testing, sampling, and inspection. 
Part 4.0 specifies the quality and disease standards that must be met for seed potatoes to be 
planted.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-22 
Plant Industry Division 
 
5 
Part 5.0 specifies how the Commissioner will randomly select ten percent of potato growers for 
records inspections. 
Part 6.0 specifies where the growers seeking an exemption pursuant to §35-27.3.105(3), C.R.S. 
must submit their request and states that the Commissioner will notify the grower when an 
exemption is authorized. 
Part 7.0 specifies the methods that must be used for determining that bacterial ring rot and late 
blight are not present in the seed potatoes requested for planting. 
Part 8.0 specifies the fees the Department will charge for services provided. 
Part 9.0 specifies the amount of seed potatoes that are sufficient to plant one or more acres. 
Factual and Policy Basis Issues 
The factual and policy issues encountered when developing these rules include: 
1) 
The Colorado Seed Potato Act was passed by the General Assembly and signed into law 
by Governor Ritter in 2010. The Act requires the development of several rules for the 
implementation of the Act. The Act’s requirements will be effective January 1, 2012, 
therefore all rules must be developed prior to this time. 
2) 
Part 1.0: The definitions in the Act are referenced in this section so producers know 
where to find the definitions for terms used in the proposed rules 
3) 
Part 2.0: Section 35-27.3.105(b), C.R.S. of the Act requires that seed potatoes imported 
into Colorado meet the requirements of the State National Harmonization Program and 
any applicable quarantine. Sections 2.1.1 through 2.1.5 of the proposed rules states the 
requirements as listed in the State National Harmonization Program. USDA developed 
the State National Harmonization program requirements as a means to establish 
minimum quality requirements for potato seed quality to facilitate international export of 
seed potatoes. These requirements are listed in USDA’s program. Section 2.1.6 states 
the seed must meet the requirements of the late blight quarantine. The late blight 
quarantine is the only applicable quarantine at this time. The Colorado Department of 
Agriculture has not adopted any other quarantine for seed potatoes. 
4) 
Part 3.0: Section 35-27.3.108(1)(b)(1), C.R.S. of the Act requires the Commissioner to 
establish requirements for compliance verification, testing, sampling, and inspection. Part 
3.0 states the requirements. 400 tubers is the common quantity used for disease analysis 
in potatoes. These figures come from both certified seed potato regulations as well as 
requirements for disease monitoring on potato tubers for export. The Acts states that a 
grower must submit seed stock to the certifying authority of Colorado for testing and the 
certifying authority of Colorado approves the seed stock for planting. Colorado State 
University is the certifying authority for seed potatoes in Colorado. Colorado State 
University operates the San Luis Valley Research Center Laboratory for potato testing so 
this is the best laboratory for potato disease testing.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-22 
Plant Industry Division 
 
6 
5) 
Part 4.0: Section 35-27.3.108(1)(b)(II), C.R.S. of the Act requires the Commissioner to 
specify quality or disease standards for potatoes. Part 4.0 of the proposed rules states 
these requirements. These standards are based on seed certification requirements for 
potatoes. These are generally accepted standards for disease prevention and control. 
Section 35-27.3.108(1)(b)(IV), C.R.S. requires the Commissioner to set standards for 
uncertified seed stock that may be planted pursuant to §35-27.3-105(2)(b), C.R.S. These 
standards are in Part 4.0 of the rules also mentioned above. 
6) 
Part 5.0: Section 35-27.3.108(1)(b)(III) C.R.S. requires the Commissioner to adopt rules 
to allow for the random selection of ten percent of potato growers subject to the annual 
records review required under §35-27.3-106(2), C.R.S. These proposed rules are stated 
in Part 5.0. The most objective manner to choose the ten percent is through a computer 
random number generator. The Department has the software to do this. 
7) 
Part 6.0: The Commissioner also has the authority in § 35-27.3-108, C.R.S. to adopt 
rules necessary for the administration and enforcement of this article. Part 6.0 of the 
proposed rules was developed to provide guidance to growers seeking an exemption 
pursuant to § 35-27.3.105(3), C.R.S. This rule states where the grower must submit their 
request and also states that the Commissioner will notify the grower when an exemption 
is authorized. 
8) 
Part 7.0: Section 35-27.3.108(1)(b)(V), C.R.S. requires the Commissioner to establish 
methods for determining that bacterial ring rot or an unacceptable level of community 
diseases is not present in seed potatoes planted under §35-27.3-105 (3), C.R.S. These 
requirements are stated in part 7.0 of the rules. The number of tubers from each lot that 
must be submitted and who will do the testing are the same as previously described for 
Part 3.0 of the rules. This testing is the same process. 
9) 
Part 8.0: Section 35-27.3.108(1)(b)(VII), C.R.S. requires the Commissioner to set a 
schedule of fees for services performed by the Department. These fees are stated in Part 
8 of the proposed rules. The fees are based on actual costs of services from the 
Department. 
10) 
Part 9.0: Section 35-27.3.104, C.R.S. requires the Commissioner to establish the amount 
of seed potatoes that are sufficient to plant one or more acres as this is the threshold for 
determining if a grower must be in compliance with the Act. This amount is stated in Part 
9.0 of the proposed rules. Through discussion with the Seed Potato Act Advisory 
Committee it was determined that based on the variety of seed potatoes being planted 
the amount to plant one or more acres was up to fifty hundredweight of seed potatoes. 
13.2.0 February 12, 2014 – Effective March 30, 2014 
Statutory Authority 
These Rules are proposed for adoption by the Commissioner of the Colorado Department of Agriculture 
pursuant to his authority under the Colorado Seed Potato Act, § 35-27.3-108(1)(b), C.R.S. 
The purpose of these proposed Rule amendments are as follows: 
1. 
To clarify in Parts 2.1.1, 2.1.2 and 2.1.3 that the disease percentage is based on the 
number of tubers with the various viruses or diseases.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-22 
Plant Industry Division 
 
7 
2. 
To reduce the percentage of tubers allowed with necrotic viruses in Part 2.1.3 from 2% to 
1.5%. 
3. 
To clarify in 2.1.3 that PVYN refers to all strains of PVYN. 
4. 
To clarify the language in 2.1.3 regarding the standard for PVYN, PVYNTN, mop top and 
tobacco rattle virus. 
5. 
To require in Part 4.1.0 that the disease standards for seed potatoes to be replanted are 
the same as what is required in the Colorado Rules and Regulations for the Certification 
of Seed Potatoes established by Colorado State University in cooperation with the 
Colorado Certified Potato Growers Association. 
Factual and policy basis issues encountered when developing these Rules include: 
1. 
Adding the terminology, “tubers with,” clarifies how the percentage of a virus or disease is 
calculated for purposes of these Rules. 
2. 
The potato industry is trying to reduce the amount of disease in seed potatoes. Colorado 
State University and the Colorado Certified Potato Growers Association are reducing 
their certified seed standards for necrotic diseases to 1.5%. Incorporating this standard 
into the Colorado Seed Potato Act Rules creates a consistent standard for the industry. 
3. 
There are several strains of PVYN. The amendment to Part 2.1.3 recognizes this and 
clarifies that all of the strains are regulated. 
4. 
The Colorado Rules and Regulations for the Certification of Seed Potatoes and the 
Colorado Seed Potato Act Rules both contain standards for the same diseases. 
Referencing the Colorado Rules and Regulations for the Certification of Seed Potatoes in 
these Rules is the simplest and most effective way to make the standards equivalent now 
and ensure consistency in the future if the standards change. 
13.3.0 February 11, 2015 – Effective March 30, 2015 
Statutory Authority 
These Rules are proposed for adoption by the Commissioner of the Colorado Department of 
Agriculture (“CDA”) pursuant to his authority under the Colorado Seed Potato Act (the “Act”) §§ 
35-27.3-101 through 112, C.R.S., specifically, §§ 35-27.0-108(1)(b)(II) and (IV), C.R.S. 
The purposes of these proposed Rule Amendments are as follows: 
1. 
Amend Part 2.0 title to include all certified seed potatoes, not just imported seed 
potatoes. 
2. 
Amend Rule 2.1.0 to correct the statutory reference and clarify the scope of the Rule. 
3. 
Amend Rule 2.1.2 to lower the standard for total virus from 10% to 8% based on 
postharvest testing. 
4. 
Amend Rule 2.1.3 to remove the zero tolerance for PVYN and PVYNTN and include those 
in the 1.5% tolerance for necrotic viruses.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-22 
Plant Industry Division 
 
8 
5. 
Add a new Rule 2.2.0 to provide the statutory citation for the authority of this Rule, clarify 
which seed potatoes are subject to the standards listed in 2.2.1 through 2.2.5, and 
establish disease standards in 2.2.1 through 2.2.5 for seed potatoes planted on or after 
August 1, 2015. 
6. 
Adopt a new Rule 2.2.1 establishing virus standards for total virus as well as PVYN 
serotype strains as determined by a postharvest test. 
7. 
Adopt a new Rule 2.2.2 establishing an alternative standard for disease levels should a 
postharvest test not be useable. 
8. 
Adopt a new Rule 2.2.3 maintaining the current zero tolerance for Mop Top and Tobacco 
Rattle Virus after August 1, 2015. 
9. 
Adopt a new Rule 2.2.4 maintaining the current zero tolerance for Bacterial Ring Rot and 
Golden Nematode after August 1, 2015. 
10. 
Adopt a new Rule 2.2.5 maintaining the requirement that all imported seed potatoes be 
free from Late Blight and meet the requirements of the Late Blight Quarantine after 
August 1, 2015. 
11. 
Adopt a new Rule 2.3.0 maintaining the current requirement that records of compliance 
with the disease standards in Part 2.0 must be maintained for two years. 
12. 
Amend Rule 4.1.0 to include the statutory citation that authorizes this Rule. 
13. 
Add a new Rule 4.1.2 clarifying the current requirement that records of compliance with 
the disease standards in Part 4.0 must be maintained for two years. 
14. 
Change the hourly fee charged by the Department for work conducted for the Act to 
reflect the current non-mandatory inspection fee charged by the Fruit and Vegetable 
Inspection Service. 
Factual and policy basis issues encountered when developing these Rules include: 
1. 
The current Rules in Part 2.0 apply only to imported seed potatoes, not potatoes 
produced in Colorado, which by default are therefore subject only to the seed potato 
certification standards. Part 2.0 as amended now establishes the disease standards for 
both imported seed potatoes and seed potatoes produced in Colorado. These standards 
need to be the same to clarify planting requirements. 
2. 
The standard is being lowered for total virus to match the rules enacted by the Colorado 
Certified Seed Growers Association. Also the standard for total virus is being lowered to 
offset the increase in PVYN strains that are now being allowed. 
3. 
PVYN and PVYNTN are now widespread in the San Luis Valley and a zero tolerance is not 
realistic. As PVYN and PVYNTN are necrotic viruses, they are now included as part of the 
total virus tolerance. 
4. 
A new Rule 2.2.0 is needed to ensure a smooth transition to the new standards that will 
apply to seed potatoes that are planted on or after August 1, 2015.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-22 
Plant Industry Division 
 
9 
5. 
The standard for seed potato disease standards is a postharvest test. Rule 2.2.1 clarifies 
that this test is to be utilized to determine the disease level in each seed potato lot. This 
Rule sets a maximum of 5% total virus in the lot, which is a 3% reduction from the 
previous year in order to require seed potatoes to have lower levels of virus diseases and 
therefore hopefully diminish the disease levels in the crop produced by these seed 
potatoes. The Rule also establishes a maximum of 1% PVYN strains for the lot as part of 
the total 5%. This reduces the tolerance by 0.5% from the previous year in order to 
require seed potatoes to have lower levels of necrotic disease and therefore hopefully 
diminish the disease levels in the crop produced by these seed potatoes. 
6. 
A postharvest test requires the plants to sprout and grow to a sufficient size to be 
evaluated for disease levels. Many factors can contribute to this not being successful 
such as weather events and changes in the growing conditions. Rule 2.2.2 therefore 
provides an alternative method as a backup. 
7. 
The industry wishes to maintain a zero tolerance for Mop Top and Tobacco Rattle Virus 
for production and trade purposes. As this is achievable the standard will remain at zero 
in Rule 2.2.3. 
8. 
The industry wishes to maintain a zero tolerance for Bacterial Ring Rot and Golden 
Nematode for production and trade purposes. As this is achievable the standard will 
remain at zero in Rule 2.2.4. 
9. 
The Late Blight Quarantine applies to all imported seed potatoes. Rule 2.2.5 clarifies that 
imported seed potatoes must meet those requirements apart from any requirements in 
the Seed Potato Act and associated Rules. 
10. 
Two years is the longest a seed lot could be used without certification or other testing so 
the record retention requirement in Rule 2.3.0 aligns with the time frame to provide 
documents for verification of compliance. 
11. 
The Fruit and Vegetable Inspection Service’s current fee for non-mandatory inspections 
is $37.50. The Fruit and Vegetable Inspection Service conducts the inspections for 
compliance with the Act. 
12. 
These amendments incorporate changes as a result of the Department’s Regulatory 
Efficiency Review Process. 
13.3.1 Adopted April 13, 2016 - Effective April 13, 2016 
Statutory Authority 
This Emergency Rule amendment is proposed for adoption by the Commissioner of the Colorado 
Department of Agriculture (“CDA”) pursuant to his authority under the Colorado Seed Potato Act 
(“the Act”) Sections 35-27.3-101 through 112, C.R.S., specifically, Sections 35-27.3-108(1)(b)(II) 
The purpose of this proposed rule amendment is as follows: 
1. 
Amend Part 2.2.2 to provide that if a postharvest test is not available in 2016 lots will be 
evaluated for eligibility for planting based on the second seed certification field inspection 
results for total viruses. 
Factual and policy basis issues encountered when developing this Rule amendment:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-22 
Plant Industry Division 
 
10 
1. 
The current Rules in Part 2.2.0 became effective on March 30, 2015 and applies to all 
seed potatoes planted after August 1, 2015. When these Rules were adopted they 
required all seed potatoes to undergo a postharvest test to be eligible to be planted in 
2016 and subsequent years. The postharvest test is typically conducted by Colorado 
State University as part of the seed potato certification process. 
2. 
Colorado seed potatoes are certified under rules and regulations promulgated by the 
Board Of Governors of the Colorado State University system in conjunction with the 
Colorado Certified Potato Growers Association. When Rule 2.2.2 of the Seed Potato Act 
was adopted, it was not clear that the Colorado certified seed potato growers rules only 
required that nuclear stock and Generation 1 seed potatoes be subjected to a 
postharvest test if the seed was to be sold. A large percentage of nuclear stock and 
Generation 1 seed potatoes are not sold but rather are retained to be planted by the 
producer in the next year. Therefore after production of the 2015 seed potato crop, very 
few lots of nuclear or Generation 1 seed potatoes were subjected to a postharvest test. 
All other classes of seed potatoes (G2 – G6) that were requested for certification were 
subjected to postharvest testing. 
3. 
Over 100 lots of nuclear stock and Generation 1 seed potatoes were not subjected to a 
postharvest test. Without a change to the Rule to allow these two classes of seed 
potatoes to be planted, almost two entire generations of seed potatoes would be lost and 
the resulting effect on the availability of seed potatoes to be planted in future years would 
be catastrophic. It could result in a shortage of certified seed potatoes or potato growers 
needing to import significant amounts of seed potatoes from other states. 
4. 
This oversight was not noticed until early 2016, well after the postharvest tests could be 
completed. The alternative option proposed in this Rule to allow for the production of 
nuclear stock and Generation 1 seed potatoes to be planted if the second field inspection 
showed no more than 1% total virus provides adequate protection for other potato 
growers from these classes of seed as they are rarely infected with viruses at this level. 
13.3.4 Adopted January 15, 2025 - Effective March 17, 2025 
Statutory Authority 
The amendments to these rules are proposed for adoption by the Commissioner of the Colorado 
Department of Agriculture (“CDA”) pursuant to the Commissioner’s authority under the Colorado 
Seed Potato Act, §§ 35-27.3-101 through 112, C.R.S., specifically, §§ 35-27.3-105(2)(b) and 35-
27.3-108(1)(b)(I), (II), and (IV). 
Purpose 
The purpose of these proposed amendments is to: 
1. 
Amend Part 2 to delete obsolete language. 
2. 
Amend Part 3 to establish the sampling, testing, and approval requirements applicable to 
uncertified seed potatoes grown and stored as part of a grower’s farming operation that 
are more than one generation removed from certified or qualified parent potatoes and 
those uncertified seed potatoes that are no more than one generation removed from 
certification. 
3. 
Also amend Part 3 to establish new sampling, testing, evaluation, and reporting 
requirements that will result in an annual standard for potato virus Y (“PVY”) that applies 
to all uncertified seed potatoes planted under § 35-27.3-105(2), C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-22 
Plant Industry Division 
 
11 
4. 
Amend Part 4 to clarify standards for uncertified potatoes planted under § 35-27.3-
105(2)(b), C.R.S., by rule. 
5. 
Amend Part 5 to clarify the percentage of growers to be audited to be at least ten percent 
consistent with § 35-27.3-106(2)(a), C.R.S. 
6. 
Amend Part 7 to clarify testing requirements for potatoes subject to an exemption request 
made under § 35-27.3-105(3), C.R.S. 
7. 
Amend Part 8 to update the hourly inspection fee and delete irrelevant language. 
8. 
Update numeric references and typographical errors as needed. 
Factual and Policy Issues 
The factual and policy issues encountered when developing these rules include: 
1. 
The Department held a hearing on the proposed rules on October 16, 2024. The 
Department heard oral testimony and received written comments from seed potato 
growers, commercial potato growers, legislators, and other industry members. These 
comments focused on the importance of addressing PVY in the San Luis Valley 
(“Valley”), including by regulating potatoes no more than one generation from certified or 
qualified parent potatoes (“Year-Out Potatoes); the circumstances under which a grower 
may plant uncertified seed potatoes; the testing and approval requirements applicable to 
uncertified seed potatoes planted under § 35-27.3-105(2)(a)(I) and § 35-27.3-
105(2)(a)(II), C.R.S.; and the timing surrounding implementation of the proposed rules. 
2. 
Establishment of standards for Year-Out Potatoes is necessary because, to date, the 
Seed Potato Act (“Act”) exempted these potatoes from testing prior to planting, such that 
there were no disease standards applicable to Year-Out Potatoes. This exemption 
contributed to an apparent increase in percentage of potato fields infected with PVY. 
3. 
During this rulemaking, including at least three meetings with industry stakeholders, 
members of the Colorado State University (“CSU”) Potato Certification Service, and 
representatives of the Colorado Potato Administrative Committee and the Seed Potato 
Advisory Committee, the Department learned that there was insufficient scientific data 
available to quantify PVY in Year-Out Potatoes in the Valley. Therefore, the Department 
cannot establish a disease standard for PVY without first collecting and analyzing 
disease prevalence data. Further, a single numeric standard is not dynamic or flexible 
enough to account for voluntary grower-led efforts or environmental changes that can 
reduce levels of PVY in the Valley organically. 
4. 
The proposed Rules establish a process by which the Commissioner collects data on 
Year-Out Potatoes each year and, in consultation with the Seed Potato Advisory 
Committee, establishes a yearly standard for PVY based on that data. 
5. 
The timeline for standard setting at Part 3.3 is closely tied to the growing season and 
provides growers with an ability to acquire certified or uncertified seed for planting in the 
event that a grower’s uncertified potatoes intended for planting under § 35-27.3-105(2), 
C.R.S., do not meet the annual standard established in Part 3.3.4.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-22 
Plant Industry Division 
 
12 
6. 
Although the Department had proposed to delete standards applicable to uncertified 
potatoes more than one year removed from certification in Part 4, comments received at 
the hearing indicate that retaining such standards is important because uncertified 
potatoes intended for planting under § 35-27.3-105(2)(a)(I), C.R.S.—including when 
those potatoes are more than one generation removed from certification—may pose a 
different risk of disease than those uncertified Year-Out Potatoes planted under § 35-
27.3-105(2)(a)(II), C.R.S. As such, the Department is retaining the requirements for 
sampling and testing of uncertified potatoes more than one generation removed from 
certification in Parts 3.1.0 and 3.2.0 and retaining most standards in Part 4 for these 
same potatoes. 
7. 
The proposed Rules make clear that the annual PVY standard set in Part 3.3.4 applies to 
all uncertified potatoes intended to be planted under § 35-27.3-105(2),C.R.S., regardless 
the generation. This will create consistency and avoid confusion. 
8. 
When reviewing Part 4 of the Rules post-hearing, the Department identified that the 
reference to “paragraph 16.f” in CSU’s “Rules and Regulations for Certification of Seed 
Potatoes” was inaccurate. Therefore, the Department has revised Part 4.1.0 to update 
the necessary reference to post-harvest disease standards and to incorporate the 
relevant section of the “Colorado State University Colorado Potato Certification Service 
Rules and Regulations for Certification of Seed Potatoes” by reference as required by § 
24-4-103(12.5), C.R.S. 
9. 
Although the Department heard comment at the hearing that different testing and 
approval requirements apply to uncertified potatoes planted under § 35-27.3-105(2)(a)(I) 
versus (2)(a)(II), C.R.S., the Act makes no such distinction. The requirement at § 35-
27.3-105(2)(b)(I), C.R.S., that uncertified potatoes be submitted to the certifying authority 
for testing applies to all “uncertified potatoes” intended for planting under § 35-27.3-
105(2), C.R.S., regardless the generation of potato. Section 35-27.3-105(2)(b)(II),C.R.S., 
then requires that the certifying authority “approve the uncertified potato seed stock for 
planting if it meets the standards . . . established by the commissioner by rule.” 
Consistent with that rulemaking authority, as well as the authority described at § 35-27.3-
108(1)(b)(IV), C.R.S., the proposed Rules differentiate the disease standards applicable 
to uncertified potatoes more than one generation from certification at Part 4.1.0 from the 
single PVY disease standard applicable to Year-Out Potatoes at Part 4.2.0. 
10. 
Because the Act now requires that the certifying authority in Colorado test Year-Out 
Potatoes in addition to those uncertified potatoes already subject to testing, the certifying 
authority in Colorado may incur laboratory delays due to increased volume of samples, 
which could make timely turnaround of results impossible given the timeline necessary to 
collect samples, return results, and establish a standard based on the same. Therefore, 
the proposed amendments at Part 3 permit the certifying authority to designate another 
laboratory or laboratories to complete the testing required by the Act. 
11. 
During the most recent exemption year, the Department learned that many of the 
potatoes for which an exemption under § 35-27.3-105(3), C.R.S., was sought had already 
been tested for late blight and other quarantine diseases by the certifying authority as 
part of the seed potato certification process. In such cases, where the certifying authority 
has already tested representative lots of uncertified potatoes, there is no need to require 
such testing a second time. Therefore, the proposed amendments to Part 7 clarify that 
potatoes that have already been tested during the exemption year do not need to be 
retested as part of the exemption request process.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-22 
Plant Industry Division 
 
13 
12. 
The proposed amendments also reduce the tuber sample size in Part 3.0 from 400 to 200 
throughout the Rules. The Department consulted with CSU’s Potato Certification Service 
to determine that a smaller sample size is less costly to analyze; is sufficient for analyzing 
PVY disease load; and presents less burden on the certifying authority from a storage 
perspective. 
13. 
To harmonize the Act with fruit and vegetable inspection pricing structures, the proposed 
Rules increase the hourly inspection fee to $47 per hour in Part 8.1.1. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor's Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 01/01/2012. 
Parts 2.0, 4.0, 13.2.0 eff. 03/30/2014. 
Entire rule eff. 03/30/2015. 
Parts 2.2.2, 13.1.0.9), 13.3.1 emer. rules eff. 04/13/2016; expired 08/11/2016. 
Parts 2.0-5.0, 7.0-8.0, 13.3.4 eff. 03/17/2025.
