---
id: "8_CCR_1507-36"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1507-36"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=10561&fileName=8%20CCR%201507-36&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1507-36. 8 CCR 1507-36

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY 
Colorado Bureau of Investigation 
MISSING INDIGENOUS PERSONS ALERT PROGRAM 
8 CCR 1507-36 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
AUTHORITY TO ADOPT RULES AND REGULATIONS 
The Colorado Department of Public Safety Executive Director is mandated to promulgate rules and 
regulations regarding the MISSING INDIGENOUS PERSONS ALERT PROGRAM pursuant to 24-33.5-
431(2)(d), C.R.S. 
DEFINITIONS 
The definitions provided in section 24-33.5-2601, C.R.S. shall apply to these rules and regulations. The 
following definitions shall also apply: 
“Indigenous” – means having descended from people who were living in North America prior to the time 
people from Europe began settling in North America, being an enrolled member of a federally recognized 
Indian Tribe, or being a lineal descendant of a tribally enrolled parent or guardian. 
“Indigenous-led organization” – means an organization or entity whose board or decision-making body 
membership is entirely indigenous and whose staff is comprised of at least seventy percent indigenous 
persons. 
“Missing or Murdered Indigenous Relative” – means any missing or murdered indigenous person. 
“Missing Indigenous Persons Alert Program” – means the missing indigenous person alert program 
operated by the bureau. The program must be a coordinated effort among the bureau, local law 
enforcement agencies, federal recognized tribes, any governmental agency that may be involved in the 
search and recovery of a missing indigenous person, and the state’s public and commercial television 
and radio broadcasters. The bureau may operate the alert system as a part of any other missing person 
alert program operated by the bureau. 
“Missing Indigenous Person Alert Program Broadcast” – means a public broadcast notification 
containing information regarding the missing indigenous person, circumstances surrounding the 
disappearance, mode of transportation and/or direction of travel, and any additional information pertaining 
to the investigation that would lead to the safe return of the missing indigenous person. 
“Notification Period” – means the time the alert will be active until the suspect(s) is apprehended or the 
requesting agency provides information that the alert is no longer necessary and should be canceled. 
APPLICABILITY 
These rules and regulations shall apply to the Colorado Bureau of Investigation and statewide Law 
Enforcement. 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-36 
Colorado Bureau of Investigation 
 
2 
RULES / REGULATIONS / PROCEDURES 
▪ 
CBI-MIPA 1 
• 
A local law enforcement agency, operating under their individual policy and procedures, 
involving an investigation, and upon confirmation of a report of a missing indigenous 
person, may notify the Colorado Bureau of Investigation and request that the information 
be conveyed to the bureau for a Missing Indigenous Person Alert Broadcast. The 
Colorado Bureau of Investigation will provide a designated number to be utilized for 
contacting Colorado Bureau of Investigation Personnel assigned to assist local law 
enforcement agencies with the Indigenous Person Alert Broadcast. The number will be 
operational 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. 
▪ 
CBI-MIPA 2 
• 
The Colorado Bureau of Investigation will verify the accuracy of the information based on 
personal contact with a representative from the law enforcement agency. The verification 
of information provided by the law enforcement agency, will include but is not limited to: 
1) Confirming the identity of the Law Enforcement Agency and the reporting law 
enforcement official. 2) Confirmation that the missing person has been entered into the 
CCIC/NCIC system. 3) Reasonable confirmation that the missing person is believed to be 
an indigenous person and/or a member of a federally recognized tribe and went missing 
while in Colorado. 4) Verify that the information being reported meets the definition of 
“missing indigenous person.” The Colorado Bureau of Investigation will then forward the 
information on to participating radio stations, television stations, and other media outlets 
in Colorado. 
▪ 
CBI-MIPA 3 
• 
Participating radio stations, television stations, and other media outlets in Colorado may 
broadcast all appropriate information that may assist in the safe recovery of the missing 
person, and a statement instructing anyone with information regarding the missing 
person to contact his or her local law enforcement agency. The alert information may 
contain but is not limited to: 1) The missing person’s name and identification information 
to include last known location and tribe affiliation. 2) Information involving the missing 
person’s mode of transportation. 3) Brief description of events leading to the 
disappearance of the missing person. 4) Information directly related to the safety and 
health of the missing person. 
▪ 
CBI-MIPA 4 
• 
Once the request has been approved, the requesting law enforcement agency should fill 
out the “Missing Indigenous Person Alert” preformatted Teletype by typing INFO MIPA. 
This Teletype will notify law enforcement in Colorado that there is an active Missing 
Indigenous Person Alert”.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-36 
Colorado Bureau of Investigation 
 
3 
▪ 
CBI-MIPA 5 
• 
The Alert may be rebroadcast as often as possible, but it is recommended to rebroadcast 
every 15 minutes the first 2 hours, then every 30 minutes. The update of information may 
be at the direction of state or local law enforcement and as additional information 
becomes available or as investigation circumstances change. The cancellation of the 
broadcast shall be the responsibility of the Colorado Bureau of Investigation. The bureau 
will notify the participating radio stations, television stations, and other media outlets in all 
affected area that the missing person has been found or at the end of the broadcasted 
notification period, which ever comes first. The requesting law enforcement agency must 
contact the Colorado Bureau of Investigation Designee to deactivate the activation once 
the missing person is located or at the end of the determined notification period. 
• 
Once the missing person is located and the Colorado Bureau of Investigation has been 
notified, the requesting law enforcement agency must cancel the original “Missing 
Indigenous Person Alert” Teletype that was sent out by their agency. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 12/30/2022.
