---
id: "8_CCR_1507-52"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1507-52"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=11139&fileName=8%20CCR%201507-52&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1507-52. 8 CCR 1507-52

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
8 CCR 1507-52 
REDUCED IGNITION PROPENSITY CIGARETTE STANDARDS AND CERTIFICATION 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
SECTION 1 
PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY TO PROMULGATE RULES 
1.1. 
Section 24-33.5-1214, C.R.S. establishes the authority and duty of the Division of Fire Prevention 
& Control (hereafter Division) to ensure that cigarettes sold or offered for sale in Colorado meet 
the ignition strength standards specified in Section 24-33.5-1214, C.R.S. 
1.2. 
The Director of the Division is authorized by the provisions of Section 24-33.5-1214, C.R.S, to 
promulgate rules and regulations to administer the section. This regulation is adopted pursuant to 
that authority and is intended to be consistent with the requirements of the State Administrative 
Procedures Act (APA), Section 24-4-101 et seq., C.R.S. 
SECTION 2 
DEFINITIONS 
2.1. 
“Administrator” means the state fire suppression administrator, who shall be the Director of the 
Division of Fire Prevention & Control, under the Department of Public Safety, or the designee of 
such Director. 
2.2. 
“Agent” means a person licensed by the Department of Revenue to purchase and affix adhesive 
or meter stamps on packages of cigarettes. 
2.3. 
“ASTM International” means the American Society for Testing and Materials or its successor 
organization. 
2.4. 
“Brand Family” means all styles of cigarettes sold under the same trade mark and differentiated 
from one another by means of additional modifiers or descriptors, including, but not limited to, 
“menthol”, , “kings”, and “100s”, and includes any brand name, alone or in conjunction with any 
other word, trademark, logo, symbol, motto, selling message, recognizable pattern of colors, or 
any other indicia of product identification identical or similar to, or identifiable with, a previously 
known brand of cigarettes. 
2.5. 
“Cigarette” means any roll for smoking, whether made wholly or partly of tobacco or any other 
substance, irrespective of size or shape, and whether or not such tobacco or substance is 
flavored, adulterated, or mixed with any other ingredient, the wrapper or cover of which is made 
of paper or any other substance or material except tobacco. 
2.6. 
“Consumer testing” means an assessment of cigarettes that is conducted by, or under the control 
and direction of, a manufacturer for the purpose of evaluating consumer acceptance of such 
cigarettes, utilizing only the quantity of cigarettes that is reasonably necessary for such 
assessment. 
2.7. 
“Manufacturer” means any one or more of the following: 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-52 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
2 
2.7.1. 
An entity that manufactures or otherwise produces cigarettes or causes cigarettes to be 
manufactured with the intent that such cigarettes be sold in Colorado, regardless of 
where the cigarettes are manufactured or produced and regardless of whether they are 
imported from outside the United States; 
2.7.2. 
The first purchaser anywhere that intends to resell, in the United States, cigarettes 
manufactured anywhere that the original manufacturer or producer does not intend to be 
sold in the United States; or 
2.7.3. 
An entity that becomes a successor to an entity described in paragraph 2.7.1 or 2.7.2. 
2.8. 
“Quality control and quality assurance program” means a set of laboratory procedures 
implemented to ensure that: 
2.8.1. 
Operator bias, systematic and nonsystematic methodological errors, and equipment- 
related problems do not affect the results of cigarette testing; and 
2.8.2. 
The testing repeatability remains within the required repeatability values stated in Section 
24-33.5-1214 (2) (a) (II) (F), C.R.S., for all test trials used to certify cigarettes in 
accordance with section 24-33.5-1214 (3), C.R.S. 
2.9. 
“Repeatability”, with respect to a cigarette test trial, refers to the range of values within which the 
repeat results of cigarette test trials from a single laboratory will fall ninety-five percent of the time. 
2.10. 
“Retail dealer” means any person, other than a manufacturer or wholesale dealer, engaged in 
selling cigarettes or tobacco products. 
2.11. 
“Sale” means any transfer of title, possession, or both, or exchange or barter, conditional or 
otherwise, in any manner or by any means or any agreement. In addition to cash and credit sales, 
the giving of cigarettes as samples, prizes, or gifts, and the exchanging of cigarettes for any 
consideration other than money, are considered sales. 
2.12. 
“Sell” means to sell or to offer or agree to sell. 
2.13. 
“UPC Symbol” means the symbol signifying the Universal Product Code. 
2.14. 
“Wholesale dealer” means: 
2.14.1. Any person, other than a manufacturer, who sells cigarettes or tobacco products to retail 
dealers or other persons for purposes of resale; and 
2.14.2. Any person who owns, operates, or maintains one or more cigarette or tobacco product 
vending machines in, at, or upon premises owned or occupied by any other person. 
SECTION 3 
ACCEPTANCE REQUIREMENTS 
3.1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Section 10, no cigarettes shall be sold or offered for sale in this 
state, or offered for sale or sold to persons located in this state, after July 31, 2009, without a 
certification accepted by the Division. The Division will accept certifications based upon the 
submission of the information and fees required by this regulation. The Division will provide 
manufacturers a reasonable timeframe to provide missing information or to pay the required fee. 
3.2. 
Acceptance requirements. In order to be accepted:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-52 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
3 
3.2.1. 
The cigarettes must have been tested in accordance with the test method and meet the 
performance standard specified in Section 4 of this rule; 
3.2.2. 
A written certification of the test and performance results required in Section 4 must have 
been filed by the manufacturer with the Administrator; 
3.2.3. 
An application for each brand family, which lists each cigarette within the brand family 
seeking acceptance, must be filed with the Administrator; 
3.2.4. 
The fees specified in 3.5 must be paid in full; and 
3.2.5. 
The cigarettes must be marked in accordance with Section 5 of this rule. 
3.3. 
Certification of testing and test results by the manufacturer. 
3.3.1. 
Each manufacturer shall submit to the Administrator a written certification attesting that 
each cigarette listed in the certification: 
3.3.1.1. Has been tested in accordance with Section 4 of this rule; and 
3.3.1.2. Meets the performance standard set forth in Section 4 of this rule. 
3.3.2. 
Each cigarette listed in the certification submitted pursuant to paragraph 3.2.3 shall be 
described with the following information: 
3.3.2.1. Brand or trade name on the package; 
3.3.2.2. Style, such as full flavor or Blue; 
3.3.2.3. Length in millimeters; 
3.3.2.4. Circumference in millimeters; 
3.3.2.5. Flavor, menthol or non-menthol as applicable; 
3.3.2.6. Filter or no filter; 
3.3.2.7. Package description, such as soft pack or hard pack; 
3.3.2.8. Marking pursuant to subsection 5 of this section; 
3.3.2.9. The name, address, and telephone number of the laboratory that conducted the 
tests, if different from that of the manufacturer; and 
3.3.2.10. 
The date that the testing occurred. 
3.3.3. 
Certifications under this Subsection 3.3 shall be made available to the Attorney General 
for purposes consistent with Section 24-33.5-1214 (3), C.R.S. and to the Department of 
Revenue for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the Section 24-33.5-1214 (3), 
C.R.S. 
3.4. 
Certification Application and Recertification Procedures 
3.4.1. 
An applicant must apply for certification in a format provided by the Division. Application 
instructions are available on the Division’s website (dfpc.colorado.gov/FLS).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-52 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
4 
3.4.2. 
Each cigarette certified under this rule shall be subject to recertification every three years. 
3.5. 
Fees – At the time it submits a written certification under this rule, a manufacturer shall pay to the 
Department of Public Safety a fee of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each brand family of 
cigarettes listed in the certification. The fee paid shall apply to all cigarettes within the brand 
family certified and shall include any new cigarette certified within the brand family during the 
three-year certification period. 
3.6. 
Changes to Cigarettes – If a manufacturer has certified a cigarette pursuant to this rule, and 
thereafter makes any change to such cigarette that is likely to alter its compliance with the 
reduced ignition propensity standard required by Section 24-33.5-1214, C.R.S., such cigarette 
shall not be sold or offered for sale in this state until the manufacturer retests the cigarette in 
accordance with the testing standards set forth in Section 4 of this rule and maintains records of 
the retesting as required by Section 7 of this rule. Any altered cigarette that does not meet the 
performance standard set forth in Section 4 may not be sold in this state. 
3.7. 
Notification of acceptance of certification will be sent to the manufacturer. Notifications by the 
Division will be effective on the date indicated on the certificate e-mailed to the manufacturer. 
3.8. 
Lists of certified cigarettes. 
3.8.1. 
The Division will maintain a list of cigarettes certified under Section 24-33.5-1214, C.R.S. 
and this rule on its website. 
3.8.2. 
The Division will provide the Department of Revenue and the Attorney General a current 
list of cigarettes certified under Section 24-33.5-1214, C.R.S. and this rule. 
SECTION 4 
TESTING AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS 
4.1. 
Except as provided in Section 10, no cigarettes shall be sold or offered for sale in this state, or 
offered for sale or sold to persons located in this state, after July 31, 2009, unless the cigarettes 
have been tested in accordance with the test method and meet the performance standard 
specified in this Section 4. 
4.2. 
Testing 
4.2.1. 
Testing of cigarettes shall be conducted in accordance with ASTM international standard 
E2187-04, “standard test method for measuring the ignition strength of cigarettes”. 
4.2.2. 
Testing shall be conducted on ten layers of filter paper. 
4.2.3. 
No more than twenty-five percent of the cigarettes tested in a test trial in accordance with 
this Section 4 shall exhibit full-length burns. Forty replicate tests shall constitute a 
complete test trial for each cigarette tested. 
4.2.4. 
The performance standard required by this Section 4 shall be applied only to a complete 
test trial. 
4.2.5. 
Written certifications shall be based upon testing conducted by a laboratory that has been 
accredited pursuant to standard ISO/IEC 17025 of the International Organization for 
Standardization.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-52 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
5 
4.2.6. 
A laboratory conducting testing in accordance with this Section 4 shall implement a 
quality control and quality assurance program that includes a procedure that will 
determine the repeatability of the testing results and limit the repeatability value to no 
greater than nineteen percent. 
4.2.7. 
This Section 4 shall not require additional testing of cigarettes that have been tested for 
other purposes in a manner consistent with this section. 
4.3. 
Testing by the Division 
4.3.1. 
Testing performed or sponsored by the Division in order to determine a cigarette's 
compliance with the performance standard shall be conducted in accordance with 
Subsection 4.2. 
4.3.2. 
The Division may test cigarettes for compliance on a random basis. 
4.3.3. 
The Division may test a particular cigarette brand for compliance based upon complaints 
or a history of a particular cigarette brand being involved in starting fires. 
4.4. 
Lowered Permeability Bands 
4.4.1. 
Each cigarette listed in a certification submitted pursuant to Section 3 that uses lowered 
permeability bands in the cigarette paper to achieve compliance with the performance 
standard set forth in this Section 4 shall have at least two nominally identical bands on 
the paper surrounding the tobacco column. At least one complete band shall be located 
at least fifteen millimeters from the lighting end of the cigarette. For cigarettes on which 
the bands are positioned by design, there shall be at least two bands fully located at least 
fifteen millimeters from the lighting end and ten millimeters from the filter end of the 
tobacco column or ten millimeters from the labeled end of the tobacco column for non-
filtered cigarettes. 
4.5. 
Alternative Testing 
4.5.1. 
A manufacturer of a cigarette that the Division determines cannot be tested in 
accordance with the test method prescribed in 4.2, shall propose a test method and 
performance standard for the cigarette to the Division. 
4.5.2. 
Upon approval of the proposed test method and a determination by the Division that the 
performance standard proposed by the manufacturer is equivalent to the performance 
standard prescribed in 4.2, the manufacturer may employ such test method and 
performance standard to certify such cigarette pursuant to this Section 4. 
4.5.3. 
If the Division determines that another state has enacted reduced cigarette ignition 
propensity standards that include a test method and performance standard that are 
substantially similar to those contained in 4.2, and the Division finds that the officials 
responsible for implementing those requirements have approved the proposed alternative 
test method and performance standard for a particular cigarette proposed by a 
manufacturer as meeting the reduced cigarette ignition propensity standards of such 
state's laws or rules under a legal provision comparable to this Section 4, then the 
Division shall authorize the manufacturer to employ the alternative test method and 
performance standard to certify such cigarette for sale in Colorado unless the Division 
demonstrates a reasonable basis why the alternative test should not be accepted. All 
other applicable requirements of this Rule shall apply to the manufacturer.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-52 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
6 
SECTION 5 
LABELING 
5.1. 
Except as otherwise provided Section 10, no cigarettes shall be sold or offered for sale in this 
state, or offered for sale or sold to persons located in this state, after July 31, 2009, unless the 
cigarettes have been marked in accordance with this Section 5. 
5.2. 
Effective July 31, 2009, cigarettes that are certified by a manufacturer in accordance with Section 
3 shall be marked to indicate compliance with the requirements of Section 24-33.5-1214 (4), 
C.R.S. Such marking shall be in eight-point type or larger and shall consist of one or more of the 
following: 
5.2.1. 
Modification of the package's UPC symbol to include a visible mark printed at or around 
the area of the UPC symbol. The mark may consist of alphanumeric or symbolic 
characters permanently stamped, engraved, embossed, or printed in conjunction with the 
UPC symbol. 
5.2.2. 
Any visible combination of alphanumeric or symbolic characters permanently stamped, 
engraved, embossed, or printed on the cigarette package or cellophane wrap; or 
5.2.3. 
Stamped, engraved, embossed, or printed text that indicates that the cigarettes meet the 
standards of Section 24-33.5-1214, C.R.S. 
5.3. 
A manufacturer shall use only one marking and shall apply the marking uniformly to all brands 
and packages, including but not limited to packs, cartons, and cases, marketed by the 
manufacturer. 
5.4. 
The manufacturer shall notify the Division as to the marking selected by the manufacturer. 
5.5. 
A manufacturer shall not modify its approved marking unless the modification has been approved 
by the Division. This Subsection 5.5 shall not apply if the modified marking is a pre-approved 
marking pursuant to 5.7. 
5.5.1. 
If the manufacturer modifies its approved marking with a pre-approved marking pursuant 
to 5.7, the manufacturer will notify the Division of the modification. 
5.6. 
Unless pre-approved pursuant to 5.7, prior to the certification of any cigarette, the manufacturer 
shall present its proposed marking to the Division, which shall have discretion to approve or 
disapprove the marking. 
5.6.1. 
Proposed markings shall be deemed approved, unless the Division notifies the 
manufacturer of a disapproval within ten business days after the Division’s receipt of a 
complete request for approval. Disapproval notifications by the Division will be effective 
on the date a notification letter is postmarked or a notification is e-mailed. 
5.7. 
Pre-Approved Markings 
5.7.1. 
The following markings are pre-approved by the Division and need not be submitted to 
the Division for approval prior to their use by a manufacturer: 
5.7.1.1. Any marking in use and approved for sale in New York pursuant to the New York 
fire safety standards for cigarettes; or 
5.7.1.2. The letters “FSC”, signifying “fire standards compliant”, appearing in eight-point 
type or larger and permanently stamped, engraved, embossed, or printed on the 
package at or near the UPC symbol.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-52 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
7 
SECTION 6 
COPIES OF CERTIFICATIONS AND MARKINGS 
6.1. 
Manufacturers certifying cigarettes in accordance with Section 3 shall provide a copy of the 
certifications to all wholesale dealers and agents to which they sell cigarettes and shall also 
provide sufficient copies of an illustration of the package marking utilized by the manufacturer 
pursuant to Section 5 for each retail dealer to which the wholesale dealers or agents sell 
cigarettes. 
6.2. 
Wholesale dealers and agents shall provide copies of these package markings received from 
manufacturers to all retail dealers to which they sell cigarettes. 
6.3. 
Wholesale dealers, agents, and retail dealers shall permit the Administrator, the Department of 
Revenue, the Attorney General, and employees thereof to inspect markings of cigarette 
packaging marked in accordance with Section 5. 
SECTION 7 
RECORDKEEPING 
7.1. 
Recordkeeping – Each manufacturer shall maintain copies of the reports of all tests conducted on 
all cigarettes offered for sale for a period of three years and shall make copies of these reports 
available to the Division and the Attorney General upon written request. Any manufacturer who 
fails to make copies of such reports available within sixty days after receiving a written request 
shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed ten thousand dollars for each day after the sixtieth 
day that the manufacturer does not make such copies available. 
SECTION 8 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE TO INSPECT 
8.1. 
The Department of Revenue, in the regular course of conducting inspections of wholesale 
dealers, agents, and retail dealers as authorized by law, may inspect cigarettes to determine 
whether the cigarettes are marked as required by Section 5. 
8.2. 
If the cigarettes are not marked as required, the Department of Revenue shall notify the Division. 
SECTION 9 
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES 
9.1. 
To enforce this rule, the Attorney General, the Department of Revenue, the Division, all duly 
authorized employees and agents thereof, and all law enforcement personnel are authorized to 
examine the books, papers, invoices, and other records of any person in possession, control, or 
occupancy of any premises where cigarettes are placed, stored, sold, or offered for sale, as well 
as any cigarettes on the premises. Every person in the possession, control, or occupancy of any 
premises where cigarettes are placed, stored, sold, or offered for sale are required to give the 
Attorney General, the Department of Revenue, the Division, all duly authorized employees and 
agents thereof, and all law enforcement personnel the means, facilities, and opportunity for the 
examinations authorized by Section 24-33.5-1214 (7), C.R.S. 
9.2. 
A manufacturer, wholesale dealer, agent, or other person or entity who knowingly sells or offers 
to sell cigarettes, other than at retail, in violation of Section 24-33.5-1214 (2), C.R.S. shall be 
subject to a civil penalty not to exceed one hundred dollars for each pack of such cigarettes sold 
or offered for sale; except that the penalty against any such person or entity shall not exceed one 
hundred thousand dollars during any thirty-day period. 
9.3. 
A retail dealer who knowingly sells or offers to sell cigarettes in violation of Section 24-33.5-1214 
(2), C.R.S. shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed one hundred dollars for each pack of 
such cigarettes sold or offered for sale; except that the penalty against any such retail dealer shall 
not exceed twenty-five thousand dollars for sales or offers to sell during any thirty-day period.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-52 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
8 
9.4. 
In addition to any other penalty prescribed by law, a corporation, partnership, sole proprietor, 
limited partnership, or association engaged in the manufacture of cigarettes that knowingly makes 
a false certification pursuant to Section 3 of this rule shall be subject to a civil penalty of at least 
seventy-five thousand dollars, not to exceed two hundred fifty thousand dollars for each such 
false certification. 
9.5. 
A person who violates any provision of Section 24-33.5-1214, C.R.S. for which a penalty is not 
specifically provided shall be subject to a civil penalty of up to one thousand dollars for a first 
violation and up to five thousand dollars for a second or subsequent violation. 
9.6. 
Cigarettes that have been sold or offered for sale and that do not comply with the performance 
standard required by Section 4 of this rule shall be subject to forfeiture as provided in the 
“Colorado Contraband Forfeiture Act”, part 5 of article 13 of title 16, C.R.S. Cigarettes forfeited 
pursuant to this subsection 9.6 shall be destroyed; except that, before such destruction, the true 
holder of the trademark rights in the cigarette brand shall be permitted to inspect the cigarettes if 
desired. 
9.7. 
Whenever a law enforcement officer or duly authorized agent of the Director discovers cigarettes 
that have not been marked as required by Section 5 of this rule, such officer or agent is 
authorized and empowered to seize and take possession of such cigarettes. Such cigarettes shall 
be turned over to the Department of Revenue and shall be forfeited to the state. Cigarettes 
forfeited pursuant to this subsection 9.7 shall be destroyed; except that, before such destruction, 
the true holder of the trademark rights in the cigarette brand shall be permitted to inspect the 
cigarettes if desired. 
SECTION 10: EXCEPTIONS TO APPROVAL OF CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS, TRANSITION 
PERIOD 
10.1. 
The requirements of this rule shall not be construed to prohibit: 
10.1.1. Any person or entity from manufacturing or selling cigarettes that do not meet the 
requirements of this rule, if the cigarettes are or will be stamped for sale in another state 
or are packaged for sale outside the United States, where the person or entity has taken 
reasonable steps to ensure that such cigarettes will not be sold or offered for sale to 
persons located in Colorado; or 
10.2. 
The sale of cigarettes solely for the purpose of consumer testing. 
10.2.1. For consumer testing of cigarettes that are not certified, the manufacturer must file written 
notice of the testing to be conducted within the state. 
The notice shall contain the 
quantity of cigarettes to be tested, the method of distribution and the duration of the 
consumer testing. 
SECTION 11: TOBACCO PRODUCT MANUFACTURER CERTIFICATION 
11.1. 
The certification required under this regulation is solely for the purpose of assuring that a 
manufacturer’s cigarettes comply with the reduced ignition propensity cigarette standards in 
section 24-33.5-1214, C.R.S. and this regulation. 
11.2. 
The certification required under this regulation does not replace or supersede the Tobacco 
Product Manufacturer Certification required under section 39-28-303, C.R.S. 
11.3. 
All tobacco product manufacturers who want to sell their cigarettes in Colorado must continue to 
file a Tobacco Product Manufacturer Certification with the Department of Revenue and the Office 
of the Attorney General each year between April 16th and April 30th.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-52 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
9 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 01/30/2009. 
Rules 1.1, 2.1, 3.3.2.2, 3.3.2.5, 3.3.2.7, 3.4-3.5.2, 10.1 eff. 12/30/2022. 
Rules 3.4, 3.5 eff. 10/30/2023.
