---
id: "8_CCR_1202-12"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1202-12"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=8008&fileName=8%20CCR%201202-12&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1202-12. 8 CCR 1202-12

Code of Colorado Regulations 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
RULES PERTAINING TO THE ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF THE SALE OF MEAT 
ACT METHOD OF SALE OF HOME FOOD SERVICE - Repealed eff. 03/30/2019 
8 CCR 1202-12 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Statement of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose 
Adopted February 13, 2019 – Effective March 30, 2019 
Statutory Authority 
These Rules are being proposed for repeal by the Commissioner of the Colorado Department Agriculture 
(“CDA”) as set forth in HB 18-1183. 
Purpose 
The purpose of this rulemaking is to repeal the existing “Rules Pertaining to the Administration and 
Enforcement of the Sale of Meat Act Method of Sale of Home Food Service” currently codified at 8 CCR 
1202-12. HB 18-1183 eliminates the regulation of home food service plans. 
Factual and Policy Basis 
The Department of Regulatory Agencies performed a Sunset Review in 2017 of the Colorado Sale of 
Meat Act. The review resulted in the recommendation that the General Assembly eliminate the regulation 
of home food service plans. 
The need for the Departments home food service regulatory program has become obsolete as the 
number of licensees has declined to less than ten licensees making the cash funded program 
unsustainable. 
House Bill 18-1183 repealed article 35.5 of Title 35 C.R.S. effective July 1, 2018. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule emer. rule eff. 07/01/2009; for history and versions prior to 7/1/2009, see 8 CCR 1201-15. 
Entire rule eff. 08/30/2009. 
Parts 4.01, 8.03 eff. 01/01/2014. 
Entire rule repealed eff. 03/30/2019. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado
