---
id: "8_CCR_1202-10"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1202-10"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=9560&fileName=8%20CCR%201202-10&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1202-10. 8 CCR 1202-10

1 
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
RULES PERTAINING TO THE ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF THE COLORADO EGG 
LAW 
8 CCR 1202-10 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
1.0 
TEMPERATURE REQUIREMENTS 
1.1 
Every dealer shall store, display, or otherwise maintain eggs at an ambient temperature of no 
more than forty-one degrees Fahrenheit (41° F), and no less than thirty-three degrees Fahrenheit 
(33° F). 
1.2 
A dealer who is registered with the USDA as an egg handler and is in compliance with USDA 
temperature requirements is exempt from Rule 1.1. 
1.3 
TEMPERATURE REQUIREMENTS FOR DELIVERY TRUCKS 
1.3.1 
Except as provided in 1.3.2 below, delivery trucks used for the transportation of eggs shall be 
equipped with a refrigeration unit capable of delivering refrigerated air to the cargo area to 
maintain the eggs at an ambient temperature of no more than forty-five degrees Fahrenheit (45° 
F), and no less than thirty-three degrees Fahrenheit (33° F). 
1.3.2 
Any person transporting for resale not more than two (2) cases of eggs (totaling not more than 
sixty dozen eggs) may transport such eggs using equipment other than a refrigeration unit in the 
cargo space of the delivery vehicle that will maintain the eggs at an ambient temperature of no 
more than forty-five degrees Fahrenheit (45°), and no less than thirty-three degrees Fahrenheit 
(33° F). 
2.0 
SANITATION REQUIREMENTS 
2.1 
DEALER REQUIREMENTS 
Every dealer shall store, display, transport or otherwise maintain eggs in a clean and sanitary 
environment, free from any substance or condition that could adulterate or otherwise adversely affect the 
wholesomeness, quality, or taste of the eggs by absorption of bacteria or odors, or render them inedible 
by any other means. 
2.2 
EGG WASHING REQUIREMENTS 
All Class I Dealers and persons who produce and sell eggs at a farmers market or community supported 
agricultural organization must comply with the following requirements. 
2.2.1 
Must use potable water to wash and sanitize eggs. 
2.2.2 
Cleaning agents appropriate to clean eggs must be used. The wash water must be at a 
minimum temperature of 110° F. Eggs shall not be allowed to stand or soak in the wash 
water. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-10 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
2 
2.2.3 
Cleaned eggs must be rinsed with water at a minimum temperature of 115° F. 
2.2.4 
Cleaned eggs must be sanitized (dipped or sprayed) with water containing a sanitizer that 
is labelled for use as an egg sanitizer. If a chlorine or sodium hypochlorite solution is 
used to clean eggs the solution must be of a concentration of not less than 100 PPM nor 
more than 200 PPM of available chlorine. If a hydrogen peroxide solution is used to clean 
eggs the solution must be a concentration of 3% hydrogen peroxide or its equivalent. Any 
other sanitizer must be used in accordance with the product label directions or 
requirements. 
3.0 
LABELING REQUIREMENTS 
The following labeling requirements apply to all eggs offered for sale: 
3.1 
PRODUCER IDENTIFICATION 
Every case, carton or, container of eggs at the time of packing shall have legibly printed thereon, in letters 
and numerals not less than one-eighth inch in height, one (1) of the following means of identification: 
3.1.1 
The name and address of the producer or person who packed the eggs; or 
3.1.2 
The United States Department of Agriculture's plant number or shell egg surveillance 
registration number; or 
3.1.3 
The egg license number issued to the packer by another state, preceded by the 
abbreviated name of such state, using the two-letter state abbreviations customarily used 
for sending mail through the United States Postal Service (e.g., AL-Alabama, AK-Alaska, 
AZ-Arizona, etc.) ; or 
3.1.4 
The business identification number issued by the Colorado Department of Agriculture. 
3.2 
PACK DATE REQUIREMENTS 
Every case, carton, or container of eggs at the time of packing shall have legibly printed thereon, in 
numerals not less than one-eighth inch in height, the date the eggs are first packed, (referred to in these 
rules as the “pack date”). The pack date shall be stated numerically by month and day (e.g., 1/15), or by 
the numbered consecutive day of the year (e.g., 123, being the 123rd consecutive day of the year). 
3.3 
SELL-BY DATE REQUIREMENTS 
Every case, carton, or container of eggs may, but need not have legibly printed thereon, in letters and 
numerals not less than one-eighth inch in height, a date by which the eggs must be sold, which shall be 
referred to in these rules as the “sell-by date.” The sell-by date shall be no more than 30 days after the 
pack date. It shall be stated by month and day using the three-letter abbreviation of the month followed by 
the numerical day of the month (e.g., Jan 15), and preceded by the term SELL BY or EXP. 
3.4 
SIZE AND GRADE REQUIREMENTS 
Every case, carton or container of chicken eggs at the time of packing shall have clearly printed thereon, 
in letters not less than one-fourth inch in height, the grade and the weight designation as specified in 
section 35-21-102(2), C.R.S.; except that Class I Dealers selling fewer than 250 dozen eggs per month to 
a farmer’s market, community sustained agriculture organization or directly to the household consumer 
are exempt from these requirements.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-10 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
3 
3.4.1. 
Eggs from avian species other than chickens are exempt from size and grade 
requirements. 
4.0 
SALE REQUIREMENTS 
4.1 
AGE OF EGGS 
No eggs may be offered for sale or sold to a consumer or restaurant more than 45 days after the pack 
date. 
4.2 
CONTAINERS 
It is unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale eggs in any case, carton, or container on which there 
is evidence of adhering filth or contamination on the inside or outside thereof, or in any case, carton, or 
container on which there is printed, stamped, or affixed any trademark, design, or other identification of 
any person other than the person selling such eggs. 
4.3 
REPACKAGED EGGS 
Dealers that repack eggs from damaged cartons into new cartons for sale to consumers shall comply with 
the following requirements: 
4.3.1 
Repacked eggs must be clean and have sound shells. There should be no evidence of 
yolks, whites or shell fragments from broken eggs on the eggs or carton. 
4.3.2 
Cartons used to repack eggs must be new and cannot be marked with any name other 
than the name of the dealer repacking the eggs. 
4.3.3 
Cartons used to repack eggs must identify the dealer location either by listing the store 
number or by listing the dealer address on the carton. 
4.3.4 
Cartons used to repack chicken eggs must be labeled as a particular size and grade. (For 
example: Grade B Medium). The repackaged eggs must meet the specifications for the 
size and grade indicated on the repacked carton label. 
4.3.5 
Repacked egg cartons must list the oldest pack date of the eggs repacked and the date 
the eggs were repacked must be stated on the carton. Dealers must sell the eggs within 
45 days of the oldest pack date. 
4.3.6 
The carton shall bear the statement, “The eggs in this carton were packed by this store at 
this location.” 
4.3.7 
Any other information about the eggs may be included, as long as the information is not 
misleading to the consumer. 
5.0 
STOP SALE NOTICES 
5.1 
DISPOSITION OF EGGS MORE THAN 45 DAYS AFTER PACK DATE 
Eggs withdrawn from being offered for sale after the expiration of 45 days after the pack date may be 
returned to a packer for shipment to an egg breaking plant.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-10 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
4 
5.2 
DISPOSITION OF BELOW-STANDARD SHELL EGGS 
Chicken eggs offered for sale by any dealer found to be below the minimum standards and requirements 
of quality and/or weight for the grade and size labeled, shall be withdrawn from being offered for sale at 
the time of inspection, pursuant to section 35-21-106(2), C.R.S. 
5.3 
UNLICENSED DEALERS 
Eggs offered for sale by any dealer who is not licensed under the Colorado Egg Law, sections 35-21-101 
through 35-21-108, inclusive, C.R.S., may be withdrawn by such person from being offered for sale until 
such person obtains a validly issued license under said law, and is otherwise in compliance with all of the 
provisions of the Egg Law and these rules. 
6.0 
DEALER LICENSE EXPIRATION DATE 
The expiration date for all egg dealer licenses shall be December 31. 
7.0 
DEALER LICENSE CATEGORIES 
7.1 
The license categories for dealers are based on the average number of cases of eggs (30 dozen 
per case) sold per week during the previous 12 months. 
Dealer categories are as follows: 
1. 
Class I – produces and sells fewer than 40 cases per; 
2. 
Class II – sells up to and including 0.5 cases per week; 
3. 
Class III – sells over 0.5 and up to and including 2 cases per week; 
4. 
Class IV – sells over 2 cases and up to and including 25 cases per week; 
5. 
Class V – sells over 25 cases and up to and including 100 cases per week; 
6. 
Class VI – sells over 100 cases and up to and including 500 cases per week; 
7. 
Class VII – sells over 500 cases per week. 
The average number of cases of eggs sold per week shall be calculated by dividing the total number of 
cases of eggs sold during the previous 12 months by the number of weeks the dealer sold eggs during 
that same period. If an applicant for a dealer license has not sold eggs during the previous 12 months, a 
class II license shall be required. 
8.0 
RESERVED 
9.0 
RESERVED 
10.0 
STATEMENTS OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE 
The Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose for rulemaking activity 
from 1996 to 1997 are no longer in the Department’s files.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-10 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
5 
10.1 
Emergency Rule Adopted July 1, 2009 – Effective July 1, 2009 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 
The Commissioner's authority for the adoption of these Emergency Rule Amendments is set forth in § 35-
21-106(1), C.R.S. (2008), § 24-4-103(6), C.R.S. (2008), and §§ 35-21-104(1), and 104(4)(b)(I), C.R.S., as 
enacted in SB 09-127. 
PURPOSE: 
The purpose of these Emergency Rule Amendments is to update the rules pertaining to the Colorado Egg 
Act to comply with the amendments to the Act set forth in SB 09-127. 
These Amendments: 
a. 
Replace the terms “retailer” and “wholesaler” with “dealer.” 
b. 
Remove recordkeeping requirements for wholesalers. 
c. 
Establish a license expiration date of June 30. 
d. 
Establish egg dealer license categories based upon the average number of cases of eggs sold 
per week. 
e. 
Add a section to contain the statements of basis, specific statutory authority and purpose. 
FACTUAL AND POLICY BASIS: 
The factual and policy issues that require the immediate adoption of these Emergency Rule Amendments 
are as follows: 
1. 
The Department of Regulatory Agencies performed a Sunset Review in 2008 of the Colorado Egg 
Act, which resulted in several amendments to the Act enacted by the General Assembly in SB 09-
127 effective July 1, 2009, that: 
a. 
Eliminate the terms “wholesalers” or “retailers” from the Act. These terms have been 
replaced with “dealer” throughout the rules. 
b. 
Established uniform recordkeeping requirements for all licensees, making the current 
recordkeeping requirements for egg wholesalers in the rule obsolete. 
c. 
Removed the license expiration date from the Act and required the Commissioner to 
establish by rule. These rules establish a license expiration date of June 30. 
d. 
Removed the license categories from the Act and required the Commissioner to establish 
them by rule, based upon the average number of cases of eggs sold per week. 
2. 
The Commissioner hereby finds that immediate adoption of these Emergency Rule Amendments 
is imperatively necessary to comply with the revisions to the Colorado Egg Act, §§ 35-21-101 – 
108, C.R.S. enacted by the General Assembly in its 2009 legislative session, which take effect on 
July 1, 2009. These Emergency Rule Amendments are required to permit the continuous and 
uninterrupted administration and enforcement of the Act, including the issuance of licenses 
thereunder.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-10 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
6 
10.2 
Adopted July 16, 2009 – Effective August 30, 2009 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 
The Commissioner's authority for the adoption of these Permanent Rule Amendments is set forth in § 35-
21-106(1), C.R.S. (2008), and §§ 35-21-104(1), and 104(4)(b)(I), C.R.S., as enacted in SB 09-127. 
PURPOSE: 
The purpose of these Permanent Rule Amendments is to update the rules pertaining to the Colorado Egg 
Act to comply with the amendments to the Act set forth in SB 09-127. 
These Permanent Rule Amendments: 
a. 
Replace the terms “retailer” and “wholesaler” with “dealer.” 
b. 
Remove recordkeeping requirements for wholesalers. 
c. 
Establish a license expiration date of June 30. 
d. 
Establish egg dealer license categories based upon the average number of cases of eggs sold 
per week. 
e. 
Add a section to contain the statements of basis, specific statutory authority and purpose. 
f. 
Remove obsolete language that is no longer needed. 
FACTUAL AND POLICY BASIS: 
The factual and policy issues pertaining to the adoption of these Permanent Rule Amendments are as 
follows: 
1. 
The Department of Regulatory Agencies performed a Sunset Review in 2008 of the Colorado Egg 
Act, which resulted in several amendments to the Act enacted by the General Assembly in SB 09-
127 effective July 1, 2009, that: 
a. 
Eliminate the terms “wholesalers” or “retailers” from the Act. These terms have been 
replaced with “dealer” throughout the rules. 
b. 
Established uniform recordkeeping requirements for all licensees, making the current 
recordkeeping requirements for egg wholesalers in the rule obsolete. 
c. 
Removed the license expiration date from the Act and required the Commissioner to 
establish by rule. These rules establish a license expiration date of June 30. 
d. 
Removed the license categories from the Act and required the Commissioner to establish 
them by rule, based upon the average number of cases of eggs sold per week. 
2. 
The Commissioner intends to adopt Emergency Amendments to the Rules on July 1, 2009 in 
order to implement the changes to the Act made by the General Assembly in SB 09-127. These 
Permanent Rule Amendments will make permanent those Emergency Amendments

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-10 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
7 
10.3 
Adopted April 9, 2013 – Effective January 1, 2014 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 
The Commissioner's authority for the adoption of this permanent rule amendment is set forth in § 35-21-
104(1) and § 35-1-107(5)(a), C.R.S. 
PURPOSE: 
The purpose of this permanent rule amendment is to amend Rule 6 to change the expiration date for an 
egg dealer license from June 30 to December 31. 
FACTUAL AND POLICY BASIS: 
The factual and policy issues pertaining to the adoption of this permanent rule amendment are as follows: 
1. 
This change is necessary to allow the Department to consolidate licensing functions to one time 
per year for all licenses issued by the ICS Division. 
2. 
The Department of Agriculture is moving its licensing functions from a paper based system to an 
online system. To accommodate licensee’s who hold multiple licenses with the Department of 
Agriculture, we are establishing a common licensing date so a licensee can obtain all their 
licenses in one transaction. 
10.4 
Adopted September 17, 2014 – Effective November 14, 2014 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 
The Commissioner's authority for the adoption of these permanent rule amendments is set forth in § 35-
21-106(1), § 35-21-104(1), and § 35-21-104(4)(b)(I), C.R.S. 
THE PURPOSE OF THIS RULEMAKING IS TO: 
1. 
Adopt a new Rule 1.1.2 to exempt registered USDA egg handlers from the temperature 
requirements of Rule 1.1.1. 
2. 
Adopt a new Rule 2.2 to specify egg washing requirements for Class I Dealers. 
3. 
Adopt a new Rule 3.1.4 to allow egg producers to use their Colorado Department of Agriculture 
business identification number on egg cartons. 
4. 
Adopt Rule 3.4.1 to exempt Class I Dealers selling eggs at farmer’s markets and community 
sustainable agriculture organizations from grading requirements. 
5. 
Remove obsolete language that is no longer needed. 
6. 
Adopt a new Rule 4.3 to specify the egg repacking requirements for retail dealers. 
7. 
Amend Rule 7.1 to clarify the maximum number of egg cases that a Class I Dealer may produce 
and sell. 
FACTUAL AND POLICY BASIS: 
The factual and policy issues pertaining to the adoption of these permanent rule amendments are as 
follows:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-10 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
8 
1. 
The Department of Agriculture conducted a regulatory review of these Rules as part of the 
Department’s Regulatory Efficiency Review Process conducted in accordance with the 
Governor’s Executive Order D 2012-002. This review resulted in the above changes to the rules. 
2. 
Egg production is regulated by two distinct agencies, the USDA and the Colorado Department of 
Agriculture. Both agencies have separate regulations. The USDA regulates chicken flocks of 
greater than 3,000 hens and the Colorado Department of Agriculture regulates flocks of fewer 
than 3,000 hens. The USDA and the Colorado egg rules have different egg storage and 
transportation temperature requirements. Rule 1.1.2 eliminates this temperature conflict for large 
flock producers. 
3. 
Currently small flock egg producers (fewer than 3,000 hens) are not required to wash and sanitize 
their eggs. Washing and sanitizing eggs will promote public health by reducing the risk of 
disease. 
4. 
The Colorado Department of Agriculture business identification number was not available when 
the current rule was adopted. Rule 3.1.4 provides an additional method to identify the egg 
producer on the egg carton. 
5. 
Generally most consumers buying eggs at farmer’s markets and from community sustainable 
agriculture organizations are not concerned about the grade of egg but like to buy form a local 
producer. In addition most small egg producers lack the necessary equipment and training to 
properly grade their eggs. Rule 3.4.1 will exempt these producers from the egg grading 
requirements. 
6. 
The current Rule 4.2 was adopted many years ago when it was common to sell fertilized eggs. 
Fertile eggs are no longer desired and the production of fertile eggs is considered an 
unacceptable production practice. Therefore the egg carton labelling requirement is obsolete and 
is no longer needed. 
7. 
Eggs can be damaged (broken or cracked) during shipping and handling at retail stores. 
Repacking eggs provides a way for retail egg dealers to sell the eggs instead of discarding the 
entire carton of eggs. 
8. 
Current Class I Dealers produce and sell fewer than 2 cases of eggs per week. This amendment 
increases the number of cases produced and sold to 40 per week. This equates to a flock of a 
little fewer than 3,000 laying hens. The USDA registers and inspects producers with more than 
3,000 laying hens. Amended Rule 7.1 ensures that all egg producers are inspected by the 
Colorado Department of Agriculture or by the USDA. 
10.5 
Adopted April 14, 2021 – Effective June 15, 2021 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY 
The Commissioner's authority for the adoption of these permanent rule amendments is set forth in § 35--
21-106(1), C.R.S. 
THE PURPOSE OF THIS RULEMAKING IS TO: 
Implement the recommendations from the 2019 Egg Dealers Sunset Report from the Colorado 
Department of Regulatory Agencies. More specifically, this rulemaking broadens the regulations to cover 
non-chicken eggs from avian species and adjusts temperature requirements to align with USDA 
regulations.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-10 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
9 
FACTUAL AND POLICY BASIS: 
The 2019 Egg Dealers Sunset Report from the Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies 
recommended changes that required rule changes. In addition, these rules address changes required as 
a result of the Egg Dealer Act found in HB20-1211. These changes included adding the regulation of non-
chicken eggs from avian species and authorizing relevant rulemaking authority related to non-chicken 
eggs. The proposed rule changes give effect to the 2019 Sunset recommendations. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor's Notes 
History 
Sections 1, 2, 4, 5 – 10 emer. rules eff. 07/01/2009. 
Entire rule eff. 08/30/2009. 
Sections 6, 10.2 – 10.3 eff. 01/01/2014. 
Entire rule eff. 11/14/2014. 
Entire rule eff. 06/15/2021.
