---
id: "8_CCR_1203-23"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1203-23"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=9899&fileName=8%20CCR%201203-23&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1203-23. 8 CCR 1203-23

1 
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 
Plant Industry Division 
RULES PERTAINING TO THE ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF THE INDUSTRIAL HEMP 
REGULATORY PROGRAM ACT 
8 CCR 1203-23 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Pursuant to the provisions and requirements of the Industrial Hemp Regulatory Program Act, Title 35, 
Article 61, C.R.S., the following Rules are hereby promulgated to regulate the cultivation of Hemp: 
Part 1 DEFINITIONS 
1.1 
“Act” means the Industrial Hemp Regulatory Program Act, Title 35, Article 61, C.R.S. 
1.2 
Approved Laboratories” means a laboratory certified by the Colorado Department of Public Health 
and Environment (CDPHE) that meets all standards of performance, personnel qualifications, 
operating procedures, analytical processes, proficiency testing, quality assurance, ISO 
accreditation and any other standard required by the Commissioner to meet State and Federal 
requirements for testing hemp. 
1.3 
“Biomass” means the material created once all flowers, buds, trichomes, leaves, stalks, seed, and 
plant parts from a lot are chopped or shredded in such a way as to create a homogenous, uniform 
blend of the lot from which the material originated. 
1.4 
“Certified Clones” are asexually propagated progeny identical to the stock plant and certified by 
the Association of Official Seed Certifying Agencies (AOSCA). 
1.5 
“Commercial” means the growth of Hemp, for any purpose including engaging in commerce, 
market development and market research, by any person or legal entity other than an institution 
of higher education under the pilot program administered by the Department for purposes of 
agricultural or academic research in the development of growing Hemp. 
1.6 
“Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Agriculture. 
1.7 
“Corrective Action Plan” means a plan proposed by a licensed hemp producer and approved by 
the Department to correct a negligent violation. 
1.8 
“Culpable mental state greater than negligence” means to act intentionally, knowingly, willfully, or 
recklessly. 
1.9 
“Department” means the Colorado Department of Agriculture. 
1.10 
“Harvest” means the termination of the cultivation process, the movement of Hemp from a 
Registered Land Area to another location, or the movement of Hemp within a Registered Land 
Area between indoor and outdoor planting areas. Harvest does not include removal of plants as a 
result of poor plant health, pests, disease, or weather events, nor does it include removal of male 
or hermaphrodite plants as part of a cross-pollination prevention plan. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
2 
1.11 
“Hemp” means a plant of the genus Cannabis Sativa L. and any part of the plant, including the 
seeds of the plant and all derivatives, extracts, cannabinoids, isomers, acids, salts, and salts of 
isomers, whether growing or not, containing a total delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) 
concentration of no more than three-tenths of one percent on a dry-weight basis. 
1.12 
“Hemp Greens” are the hemp leaves from immature plants that have been germinated from seed 
with the plants being no more than ten (10) inches tall, and not flowering at the time of removal of 
the leaves from the plant. 
1.13 
“Hemp Microgreens” means immature hemp seedlings for human consumption that are cut-off 
above the soil or substrate line, harvested prior to flowering and harvested not more than 14 days 
after germination. Hemp microgreens are typically between two (2) and three (3) inches in height, 
but not taller than five (5) inches. 
1.14 
“Hemp Mother Plants” are immature hemp plants with a THC concentration of 0.3% or less that 
are used for cloning purposes. 
1.15 
“Hemp Transplants” are hemp seedlings, rooted cuttings, immature plants produced from tissue 
culture, or other means of reproduction, that are harvested but transplanted into a larger 
container or field to mature for harvest. 
1.16 
“Immature Plant” means a hemp plant that is not flowering. 
1.17 
“Industrial use” means non-consumable use of hemp. 
1.18 
“Law Enforcement” means the activities of the federal, state and local law enforcement agencies 
responsible for maintaining public order and enforcing the law. 
1.19 
“Lot” means a contiguous area in a field, greenhouse, or indoor growing structure containing the 
same variety or strain of hemp throughout the area. 
1.20 
“Negligence” means the failure to exercise the level of care that a reasonably prudent person 
would exercise in complying with the regulations set forth in the Industrial Hemp Regulatory 
Program Act, section 35-61-101, et seq., or the rules adopted pursuant thereto. 
1.21 
“Non-compliant hemp” means hemp that test results of which return with a Total THC level above 
the acceptable Total THC level. 
1.22 
“Performance-based sampling” means an alternative method and frequency of testing that will 
ensure, at a confidence level of 95 percent that the hemp plants tested with the alternative 
method will not test above the acceptable Hemp THC level. 
1.23 
“Planting” means the starting of the cultivation process including by planting seed, sticking 
cuttings, tissue culture, the transfer of plants moved into a Registered Land Area except for 
replanting into a larger container within the same Registered Land Area, and the emergence of 
volunteer plants that the Registrant intends to cultivate and not destroy. 
1.24 
“Registrant” means any individual or legal entity who holds a valid Registration to cultivate Hemp 
under these Rules and the Industrial Hemp Regulatory Program Act. 
1.25 
“Registration” means authorization by the Commissioner for any individual or legal entity to grow 
Hemp on a Registered Land Area.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
3 
1.26 
“Registered Land Area” means a contiguous land area registered with the Department on which a 
Registrant plans to cultivate Hemp. A Registered Land Area may include land and buildings that 
are not used for cultivation. 
1.27 
“Remediation” means the process of rendering non-compliant hemp compliant. Remediation can 
occur by removing and destroying flower material, while retaining stalk, stems, leaf material, and 
seeds. Remediation can also occur by shredding the entire plant into a biomass-like material. 
1.28 
“Research and Development (‘R&D’)” means cultivation of Hemp by an institution of higher 
education or other entity approved by the Department for purposes of agricultural or academic 
research in the development of growing Hemp. 
1.29 
“Variety” means a group of plants or an individual plant that exhibits distinctive observable 
physical characteristic(s) or has a distinct genetic composition. 
1.30 
“Volunteer plant” means a hemp plant that grows without any intentional cultivation or planting of 
hemp on the land where the volunteer plant emerges. 
Part 2 REGISTRATION 
2.1 
Each applicant for a Commercial Hemp Registration must submit a signed, complete, accurate 
and legible application form provided by the Commissioner and receive, notification of registration 
from the Department prior to planting, which application will include, in part, the following 
information: 
2.1.1 
The name and address of the applicant and a list of all key participants, including the full 
name, title, and email addresses for each key participant. 
2.1.2 
Type of entity, such as corporation, LLC, partnership, or sole proprietor including the 
entity’s employee identification number, the principal business location address, 
telephone number, and e-mail address (if available). 
2.1.3 
The Secretary of State ID Number under which a corporate entity is doing business. 
2.1.4 
The legal description (Section, Township, Range) in which the growing area is located. 
2.1.5 
The global positioning system location coordinates taken at the approximate center of the 
Registered Land Area. 
2.1.6 
A map of the land area on which the applicant plans to cultivate Hemp, showing the 
boundaries and dimensions of the land area(s) whether in acres or square feet or both as 
appropriate. 
2.1.7 
Statement of any known intended use and varieties. 
2.1.8 
By submitting an application the Registrant acknowledges and agrees to the following 
terms and conditions: 
2.1.8.1 The Registrant shall allow and fully cooperate with any inspection and sampling 
conducted by the Department. 
2.1.8.2 The Registrant shall pay for any inspection and laboratory analysis costs that the 
Department deems necessary within 30 days of the date of the invoice. 
2.1.8.3 The Registrant shall submit all required reports when due.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
4 
2.1.9 
A Registrant must have the legal right to cultivate Hemp on the Registered Land Area 
and the legal authority to grant the Department and any authorized sampler access for 
inspection and sampling. 
2.2 
Each applicant for an R&D Hemp Registration shall submit a signed, complete, accurate and 
legible application form provided by the Commissioner prior to planting which includes the 
following information: 
2.2.1 
The name and address of the applicant. 
2.2.2 
Type of organization. 
2.2.3 
Organization name(s) if different from (2.2.1) above. 
2.2.4 
The legal description (Section, Township, Range) in which the growing area is located. 
2.2.5 
The global positioning system location coordinates taken at the approximate center of the 
Registered Land Area. 
2.2.6 
A map of the land area on which the applicant plans to cultivate Industrial Hemp, showing 
the boundaries and dimensions of the land area whether in acres or square feet or both 
as appropriate. 
2.2.7 
The Registrant’s URL to the website where it will share with the public or publish its 
research. 
2.2.8 
The scope and standard operating procedures for production of hemp in the research 
project, including a narrative of the planned research project. 
2.2.9 
The disposal plan for all hemp produced. 
2.2.10 By submitting an application the Registrant acknowledges and agrees to the following 
terms and conditions: 
2.2.10.1 
The Registrant shall allow and fully cooperate with any inspection and 
sampling conducted by the Department. 
2.2.10.2 
The Registrant shall pay for any inspection and laboratory analysis costs 
conducted by the Department within 30 days of the date of the invoice including 
any costs assessed by any authorized sampler and the costs assessed by any 
laboratory for sampling the THC content of any sample taken. 
2.2.10.3 
The Registrant shall submit all required reports when due. 
2.3 
No person may cultivate any hemp in a proposed registered land area until the Commissioner 
has approved and issued a registration. 
2.4 
Registrations are non-transferable. 
2.5 
No Hemp plant may be included in more than one Registration simultaneously.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
5 
2.6 
Except for R&D registrations, no Registered Land Area may contain non-compliant hemp plants 
or parts thereof that the Registrant knows or has reason to know are of a variety that will produce 
a plant that when tested will produce more than 0.3% total THC concentration on a dry weight 
basis. No Registrant may use any such variety for any purpose associated with the cultivation of 
Hemp. 
2.7 
Each noncontiguous land area on which Hemp is grown must have a unique Registration. Any 
addition to a Registered Land Area must also have a separate Registration. 
2.8 
In addition to the application form, each applicant for a Registration must submit the Registration 
fee set by the Commissioner. If the Registration fee does not accompany the application, the 
application for Registration will be deemed incomplete. 
2.9 
The annual Registration fee for Commercial production of Hemp is $500 plus $5.00/acre outdoors 
or $3.00/1000 sq. ft. indoors. 
2.10 
The annual Registration fee for R&D production of Hemp is $500 plus $5.00/acre outdoors or 
$3.00/1000 sq. ft. indoors. Application fees for R&D registrations may be waived for institutions of 
higher education. 
2.11 
All Registrations shall be valid for one year from date of issuance. 
2.12 
All Hemp plant material must be planted, grown and harvested under a valid Registration. Any 
plant material that is not harvested in the Registration period in which it was planted and any 
volunteer plants that are not destroyed must be declared for inclusion in a subsequent 
Registration. 
2.13 
Any Registrant that wishes to alter the growing area(s) on which the Registrant will conduct Hemp 
cultivation for either Commercial or R&D purposes shall, before altering the area, submit to the 
Department an updated legal description, global positioning system location, and map specifying 
the proposed alterations. Amendments to an existing Registration are limited to changes within 
the original land area registered, including variety changes, location(s) of varieties, and actual 
acreage or square feet of each variety planted. 
2.14 
Incomplete applications will not be processed, and application fees will not be refunded if a 
Registration is not granted. 
2.15 
Any changes to contact information must be provided within 10 days of the change. 
2.16 
No Land area may be included in more than one Registration at the same time. 
2.17 
Plants grown for R&D cannot be moved into another registration. 
Part 3 REPORTS AND RECORDS REQUIREMENTS 
3.1 
Within 10 days after planting any hemp and within 10 days after emergence of any volunteer 
hemp plants in a Registered Land Area that the Registrant chooses to cultivate and not destroy, 
each Commercial Registrant shall submit, on a form provided by the Commissioner, a Planting 
Report that includes: 
3.1.1 
A list or description of all varieties and intended use of hemp planted, or of volunteer 
hemp plants that have emerged and are not destroyed.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
6 
3.1.2 
The global positioning system coordinates and a map showing the location and actual 
acreage or square feet of each variety of hemp planted, or of volunteer hemp plants that 
have emerged and are not destroyed. 
3.1.3 
A Planting Report must be submitted any time hemp is planted in, or moved into a 
Registered Land Area, except that replanting into a larger container within the same 
Registered Land Area does not necessitate a planting report. 
3.2 
At least 30 days prior to harvest, each Commercial Hemp Registrant shall submit a Harvest 
Report, on a form provided by the Commissioner that includes: 
3.2.1 
The harvest date(s) and location of each variety of Hemp cultivated within a Registered 
Land Area. 
3.2.2 
A Registrant must notify the Commissioner immediately of any changes in the reported 
harvest date(s) in excess of 5 days by submitting an Amended Harvest Report to the 
Department. If any such changes are made the Commissioner may require additional 
testing prior to harvest. 
3.2.3 
A Registrant who disposes of plants as a result of poor plant health, pests, disease, or 
weather events, along with removal of male or hermaphrodite plants as part of a cross-
pollination prevention plan is not required to document the removal of those hemp plants 
on a Harvest Report prior to such removal. 
3.3 
Within 10 days after planting any hemp, and within 10 days after emergence of any volunteer 
hemp plants in a Registered Land Area that the Registrant chooses to cultivate and not destroy, 
each R&D Registrant shall submit, on a form provided by the Commissioner, a Planting Report 
that includes: 
3.3.1 
A list or description of all varieties of hemp planted, or of volunteer hemp plants that have 
emerged and are not destroyed within a Registered Land Area. 
3.3.2 
The global positioning system coordinates and a map showing the location and actual 
acreage or square feet of each variety of any hemp planted, or of volunteer hemp plants 
that have emerged and are not destroyed, within a Registered Land Area. 
3.3.3 
A Planting Report must be submitted any time hemp is planted in, moved into or moved 
within a Registered Land Area, except for replanting into a container of the same size 
within the same indoor location. 
3.4 
At least 30 days prior to harvest, each R&D Hemp Registrant shall submit a Harvest Report, on a 
form provided by the Commissioner that includes: 
3.4.1 
The harvest date(s) and location of each variety cultivated within a Registered Land Area. 
3.4.2 
A Registrant must notify the Commissioner immediately of any changes in the reported 
harvest date(s) in excess of 5 days by submitting an Amended Harvest Report to the 
Commissioner. If any such changes are made the Commissioner may require additional 
testing prior to harvest. 
3.4.3. 
A Registrant who disposes of plants as a result of poor health, pests, disease, or weather 
events, along with removal of make or hermaphrodite plants as part of a cross-pollination 
prevention plan is not required to document the removal of those hemp plants on a 
Harvest Report prior to such removal.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
7 
3.5 
Each Commercial and R&D Registrant shall report to the Commissioner any changes to 
information provided in the Registration or any previously submitted reports, including any 
changes to the intended disposition, within 10 days of such change. 
3.6 
Registrants shall maintain records of all hemp plants acquired, grown, produced, handled or 
disposed of, including THC test results, of all hemp lots grown within all Registered Land Area(s). 
3.7 
All Registrants shall report hemp crop acreage to the Farm Services Agency of the United States 
Department of Agriculture (“FSA”) as set forth at USDA Crop Acreage Reporting (incorporated by 
reference herein, effective July 1, 2019). Material incorporated by reference does not include any 
later amendments or editions of the incorporated material. Copies of material incorporated by 
reference are available for public inspection during regular business hours and may be obtained 
at a reasonable charge or examined by contacting the Plants Division, Colorado Department of 
Agriculture, 305 Interlocken Parkway, Broomfield, CO 80021. Further, the incorporated material 
may be examined at no cost on the Internet at: https://www.fsa.usda.gov/Assets/USDA-FSA-
Public/usdafiles/FactSheets/2019/crop-acreage-reporting-19.pdf. 
3.7.1 
If the Registrant wishes to alter the land area on which the Registrant will conduct hemp 
cultivation or R&D growth operations, before altering the area, the Registrant shall submit 
the Department and the FSA an updated legal description, global positioning system 
location, and map specifying the proposed alterations. 
3.8 
Registrants shall retain such records and reports for three (3) years. 
3.9 
All records pertaining to Part 3.6 shall be made available for inspection by the Department and 
USDA inspectors, auditors, or their representative during reasonable business hours. 
Part 4 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING PROGRAM 
4.1 
All Registrations are subject to routine inspection and sampling to verify that the total THC 
concentration of the hemp planted within a Registered Land Area does not exceed the acceptable 
Hemp THC level. 
4.2 
Except as set forth below in regard to performance-based sampling, all lots grown on a 
Registered Land Area must be sampled by the Department or an Authorized Sampler. Prior to the 
anticipated harvest, a Registrant must coordinate sampling of its hemp lots by contacting either 
an Authorized Sampler or the Department. 
4.3 
Samples from hemp plants must be collected within thirty (30) days prior to the anticipated 
harvest. 
4.4 
The Commissioner shall also conduct additional inspections and sampling to verify compliance 
with the reporting requirements of these Rules. A subset of Registrants will be randomly selected 
each year for records audit, inspection of premises, and sampling to ensure compliance of these 
rules. 
4.5 
A Registered Land Area may be subject to inspection and sampling prior to voluntary termination 
of the Registration or before its expiration date. 
4.6 
During any inspection or sampling, the Registrant or authorized representative shall be present at 
the growing operation, if possible. The Registrant or authorized representative shall provide the 
Department’s Inspector with complete and unrestricted access to all hemp plants, parts and 
seeds within a Registered Land Area whether growing or harvested, and all land, buildings and 
other structures used for the cultivation and storage of Hemp.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
8 
4.7 
All hemp lots within a Registered Land Area must be sampled to ensure compliance with the 
Hemp Program. 
4.7.1 
Individual samples of each variety or lot of hemp must be sampled from the Registered 
Land Area. 
4.7.2 
The sampled material will be prepared for testing using protocols approved by the 
CDPHE Hemp Testing Laboratory Certification 5 CCR 1005-5 (incorporated by reference 
herein, effective April 14, 2021). Material incorporated by reference does not include any 
later amendments or editions of the incorporated material. Copies of material 
incorporated by reference are available for public inspection during regular business 
hours and may be obtained at a reasonable charge or examined by contacting the Plants 
Division, Colorado Department of Agriculture, 305 Interlocken Parkway, Broomfield, CO 
80021. Further, the incorporated material may be examined at no cost on the Internet at: 
https://www.coloradosos.gov/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=9408&fileName=5
%20CCR%201005-5 
4.7.3 
Quantitative laboratory determination of the total THC concentration on a dry weight 
basis will be performed according to CDPHE’s standard operating procedures as set forth 
at 5 CCR 1005-5 (incorporated by reference herein, effective April 14, 2021). Material 
incorporated by reference does not include any later amendments or editions of the 
incorporated material. Copies of material incorporated by reference are available for 
public inspection during regular business hours and may be obtained at a reasonable 
charge or examined by contacting the Plants Division, Colorado Department of 
Agriculture, 305 Interlocken Parkway, Broomfield, CO 80021. Further, the incorporated 
material may be examined at no cost on the Internet at: 
https://www.coloradosos.gov/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=9408&fileName=5
%20CCR%201005-5.. 
4.7.4 
A sample test result of a representative sample with a total THC concentration on a dry 
weight basis greater than the acceptable Hemp THC level shall be conclusive evidence 
that the lot represented by the sample is not in compliance with this Rule. At least one 
non-compliant hemp plant or part of a plant in the Registered Land Area contains a total 
THC concentration on a dry weight basis of more than 0.3% and that the Registrant of 
that Registered Land Area is therefore not in compliance with the Act. 
4.7.5 
Upon receipt of such a test result, the Commissioner may, among other disciplinary 
options, summarily suspend or revoke the Registration of a Hemp Registrant in 
accordance with the Act, these Rules, and section 24-4-104, C.R.S. 
4.7.6 
A Registrant shall not harvest the hemp prior to sample collection. 
4.7.7 
Harvested plant material may not leave the Registered Land Area prior to receiving 
sample results except when plant material is moved to storage outside of the Registered 
Land Area to prevent crop loss under the following conditions: 
4.7.7.1 A registrant must maintain control and ownership of hemp stored outside of the 
Registered Land Area until receiving sample results. 
4.7.7.2 A registrant must report to the Department the location of hemp stored outside of 
the Registered Land Area. 
4.7.8 
Individual samples of Hemp lots shall not be commingled with other lots during sampling 
or laboratory analysis.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
9 
4.7.9 
Plants grown only for R&D cannot be moved to a commercial registration or enter into the 
stream of commerce. 
4.7.10 Any Registrant with a lot that tests above the acceptable hemp THC level, but below 1.0 
percent THC on a dry weight basis may choose to dispose of or remediate each such lot. 
If a Registrant chooses to remediate, the Registrant may do so in one of the two following 
ways: 
4.7.10.1 
Separating and destroying flowers of plants found in non-complying lots 
within the RLA, while retaining stalks, leaves, and seeds; or 
4.7.10.2 
Blending the entire hemp lot to create a biomass. 
4.7.11 If a Registrant elects to remediate any lot that is tested above the acceptable Hemp THC 
level, the Registrant must first request permission from the Department by submitting a 
Remediation and Disposal form to the Department to notify the Department of the 
Registrant’s chosen method of remediation, including the date by which the remediation 
will be complete. Upon approval from the Department, the Registrant may so remediate. 
4.7.12 Any such request must be made within 10 days of the Registrant’s receiving the 
Remediation and Disposal form from the Department. 
4.7.13 The Department will conduct remediation sampling or verification of any separation and 
destruction within 10 days of the remediation date reported to the Department pursuant to 
rule 4.7.9. 
4.7.13.1 
Non-compliant hemp lots may be remediated by separating and 
destroying the flowers from the plants in the non-compliant lots, while retaining 
stalks, leaves, and seeds or by shredding the entire hemp plant to create a 
biomass. 
4.7.13.2 
Registrants must return a completed Remediation and Disposal form to 
the Department within ten (10) days of receiving the Remediation and Disposal 
form indicating the date of disposal or remediation. 
4.7.14 No person may remediate any lot sample results that indicate a total THC content of 1.0 
percent or greater. 
4.7.15 Any lot that is tested with a total THC content of 1.0 percent of greater must be disposed 
of as follows: 
4.7.15.1 
By using DEA registered reverse distributor or law enforcement; or 
4.7.15.2 
On site at the farm or hemp production facility.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
10 
4.7.15.3 
Disposal on site at the farm must occur as set forth by the Agriculture 
Marketing Services of USDA Hemp Remediation and Disposal Guidelines 
(incorporated by reference herein, effective January 15, 2021). Material 
incorporated by reference does not include any later amendments or editions of 
the incorporated material. Copies of material incorporated by reference are 
available for public inspection during regular business hours and may be 
obtained at a reasonable charge or examined by contacting the Plants Division, 
Colorado Department of Agriculture, 305 Interlocken Parkway, Broomfield, CO 
80021. Further, the incorporated material may be examined at no cost on the 
Internet at: 
https://www.ams.usda.gov/sites/default/files/media/HempRemediationandDispos
alGuidelines.pdf. 
4.8 
A Registrant who produces Certified Seed or Certified Clones, is registered with an R&D 
registration, has produced hemp at or below the acceptable hemp THC level for the previous 
three years, who produces hemp microgreens, hemp greens, hemp transplants, and immature 
plants, or who produces hemp for grain or other industrial purposes may petition the Department 
for inclusion in the Department’s performance-based sampling program on a form provided by the 
Department, including as follows: 
4.8.1 
Certified Seed or Certified Clones: 
4.8.1.1 Provide the Department with evidence of AOSCA certified seed or plant material 
label(s) in the form of the certified seed tag, including the total area (square feet 
or acres) planted. 
4.8.1.2 Provide the Department with evidence of having planted AOSCA Certified Seed 
or AOSCA Certified Clones that have tested at or below the acceptable Hemp 
THC level for the previous three (3) years, including evidence that the Registrant 
will continue to use the same variety. 
4.8.1.3 Registrants producing Certified Seed or Certified Clones are subject to random 
sampling. 
4.8.2 
Research and Development Registrants: 
4.8.2.1 When hemp does not enter the stream of commerce, a Registrant may self-
report all total THC concentration test results so long as the Registrant permits 
the Department to inspect or audit the above documentation set forth in Parts 
2.2.7 through 2.2.9. 
4.8.2.2 Research institutions are exempt from pre-harvest sampling of hemp crops when 
they comply with 4.8.2.1 listed above. 
4.8.3 
A Registrant who has produced indoor or outdoor hemp to maturity from the same variety 
or strain for the previous three, consecutive years that, when tested by the Department or 
an authorized sampling agent, with results at or below the acceptable hemp THC level. 
4.8.4 
A Registrant who is producing hemp microgreens, hemp greens, hemp transplants, and 
immature plants is exempt by placing an averment on the application that: 
4.8.4.1 Hemp transplants will be transferred only to the location at which these plants will 
grow to maturity and from which these plants will be harvested; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
11 
4.8.4.2 Mother plants may be exempt from sampling after testing within the allowable 
hemp THC level. Otherwise, different strains of mother plants that are harvested 
or leave the Registered Land Area must be sampled. 
4.8.5 
Production for grain or other industrial uses may be exempt from testing of each lot but 
will be randomly sampled. 
4.9 
Fees and Costs 
4.9.1 
For all sampling conducted by the Department pursuant to these Rules, the Department 
will charge the Registrant $125 per inspection plus all laboratory costs associated with 
the inspection. 
4.9.2 
Registrants selected for inspection and sampling shall reimburse the Department for both 
the fees and costs incurred by the Department within 30 days of the date of invoice. 
4.9.3 
Registrant is responsible for paying all fees to approved samplers and third party labs. 
4.9.4 
The Registrant shall pay for any inspection and laboratory analysis costs, including the 
costs associated by any authorized sampler and the costs assessed by any laboratory for 
sampling the THC content of any sample taken. 
4.10 
Authorized Samplers 
4.10.1 Any individual acting as an authorized sampler must possess a valid sampler registration 
and certification issued by the Commissioner. 
4.10.1.1 
Each authorized sampler shall complete and file with the Commissioner 
an application on a form furnished by the Commissioner which contains at a 
minimum the following: name, address, telephone number and any other 
information required on the form. 
4.10.1.2 
Each applicant for an authorized sampler certification shall take a yearly 
Department-approved sampler training course and pass an examination 
administered by the Department. 
4.10.1.3 
The Commissioner, or Commissioner’s designee shall administer a 
general training class on the authorized sampling and handling techniques 
according to protocols approved by the Commissioner. 
4.10.2 The Commissioner may cancel an authorized sampler’s registration and certification or 
refuse to register or certify any person who has engaged in any of the following activities: 
4.10.2.1 
Consistent disregard for established and approved methods of sampling 
determined by the Department. 
4.10.2.2 
Failing or refusing to disclose a conflict of interest. 
4.10.2.3 
Tampering with samples to influence test results. 
4.10.2.4 
Purposeful commingling of sampled lots.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
12 
Part 5 VIOLATIONS/DISCIPLINARY SANCTIONS/CIVIL PENALTIES 
5.1 
In addition to any other violations of Title 35, Article 61, C.R.S., or these Rules, the following acts 
and omissions by any applicant or Registrant or authorized representative thereof shall constitute 
violations for which civil penalties up to $2,500 per violation and disciplinary sanctions, including 
denial of an application or summary suspension or revocation of a Registration, may be imposed 
by the Commissioner in accordance with §§ 35-61-107 and 24-4-104, C.R.S.: 
5.1.1 
Refusal or failure by an applicant, Registrant or authorized representative to fully 
cooperate and assist the Department with all aspects of the administration and 
enforcement of the Act and these Rules, including the application, registration, reporting, 
inspection and sampling processes. 
5.1.2 
Failure to provide any information required or requested by the Commissioner for 
purposes of the Act or these Rules. 
5.1.3 
Providing false, misleading, or incorrect information pertaining to the Registrant’s 
cultivation of Hemp to the Commissioner by any means, including but not limited to 
information provided in any application form, report, record or inspection required or 
maintained for purposes of the Act or these Rules. 
5.1.4 
Failure to submit any required report in accordance with Part 3. 
5.1.5 
Growing hemp that when tested is shown to have a total THC concentration greater than 
0.3 percent on a dry weight basis. 
5.1.6 
Failure to pay fees assessed by the Commissioner for inspection or laboratory analysis 
costs. 
5.1.7 
Negligent violations include, but are not limited to: 
5.1.7.1 Failure to provide a legal description of the land on which the producer produces 
Hemp. 
5.1.7.2 Failure to obtain a Registration or other required authorization from the 
Commissioner. 
5.1.7.3 Production of hemp with a total THC concentration exceeding the allowable limit, 
except that a producer who has made reasonable efforts to grow Hemp and 
whose non-compliant hemp does not have a total THC of more than 1.0 percent 
on a dry weight basis will not have committed a negligent violation. 
5.1.8 
Corrective actions for negligent violations include but are not limited to: 
5.1.8.1 A date, set by the Commissioner, by which the producer shall correct the 
negligent violation. 
5.1.8.2 Periodic reporting to the Commissioner, on a form provided by the 
Commissioner, on the Registrant’s compliance with the Act and Rules for a 
period not less than two years from the date of the negligent violation. 
5.1.8.3 The Commissioner will conduct inspections to determine whether the Registrant 
has implemented the corrective action plan as submitted.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
13 
5.1.9 
A producer that negligently violates the provision of these rules three times in a five-year 
period shall be ineligible to produce hemp for five years beginning on the date of the third 
violation. 
5.1.10 Culpable Violations 
5.1.10.1 
Any person that materially falsifies any information contained in an 
application to cultivate hemp in Colorado shall be ineligible to receive a 
registration to cultivate hemp in Colorado. 
5.1.10.2 
If the Department determines that the producer has violated the plan with 
a culpable mental state greater than negligence, the Department will report the 
producer to the U.S and Colorado Attorneys General. 
5.2 
Felony Convictions 
5.2.1 
A person with state or federal felony conviction relating to a controlled substance is not 
eligible to receive a registration to cultivate hemp, and my not produce hemp, in Colorado 
for a period of ten (10) years from the date of the conviction. 
5.2.2 
A person who was lawfully growing hemp pursuant to a registration issued by the 
Department prior to December 20, 2018, and whose conviction for a state or federal 
felony relating to a controlled substance also occurred before that date shall not be 
denied a registration to cultivate hemp as set forth in Rule 5.2.1. 
5.2.3 
The Department’s determination regarding any such denial shall be based upon the 
results of the criminal background check of key participants as set forth in section 35-61-
104(1)(c), C.R.S. 
Part 7 RESERVED 
Part 8 APPROVED LABORATORIES 
8.1 
The Department will maintain a list of approved Hemp testing laboratories that are certified by the 
Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment. 
8.2 
Authorized samplers must submit Hemp samples for official analysis only to those approved 
Hemp testing laboratories identified by the Department, as set forth in Rule 8.1. 
Part 9 STATEMENTS OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE 
9.1 
Adopted November 12, 2013 – Effective December 30, 2013 
Statutory Authority 
These rules are proposed for adoption by the Commissioner of the Colorado Department of 
Agriculture (“CDA”) pursuant to his authority under the Industrial Hemp Regulatory Program Act 
(the “Act”), §§ 35-61-104(5) and 35-61-105(2), C.R.S. 
Purpose 
The purposes of these proposed rules are to: 
1. 
Adopt a Part 1 setting forth definitions of specific terms used in these Rules.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
14 
2. 
Adopt Rules in Part 2 establishing a process for registering growers of industrial hemp 
and setting forth the information and fees required. 
3. 
Adopt Rules in Part 3 establishing the information reporting requirements with which 
registrants must comply. 
4. 
Adopt Rules in Part 4 establishing an inspection program to ensure compliance with the 
provisions of the Act and these Rules. 
5. 
Adopt Rules in Part 5 creating conditional penalty waiver provisions for registrants whose 
industrial hemp crop THC content tests between 0.3% and 1.0% by dry weight. 
6. 
Adopt Rules in Part 6 specifying violations of these Rules for which penalties may be 
imposed. 
Factual and Policy Basis 
The factual and policy issues encountered when developing these rules include: 
1. 
Senate Bill 13-241 authorized the creation of a program within the Department of 
Agriculture to regulate industrial hemp cultivation. 
2. 
The bill created a nine-member advisory committee to work with the Department to 
develop rules establishing an Industrial Hemp Regulatory Program. This committee was 
appointed by Senator Gail Schwartz and Representative Randy Fischer. 
3. 
The committee held three public meetings to determine what rules were necessary to 
implement this program and draft the appropriate language. The committee will continue 
to work with the Department to refine and update these Rules over the coming years, as 
well as review the testing protocols that Department staff is currently developing. 
9.2 
Adopted June 11, 2014 – Effective June 11, 2014 
Statutory Authority 
These emergency rules are proposed for adoption by the Commissioner of the Colorado 
Department of Agriculture (“CDA”) pursuant to his authority under the Industrial Hemp Regulatory 
Program Act (the “Act”), Sections 35-61-104(5) and 35-61-105(2), C.R.S. 
Purpose 
The purposes of these proposed rules are to: 
1. 
Adopt a registration time period of 30 days prior to planting with the elimination of the 
May 1 registration deadline. 
2. 
Allow the Department to collect crop intended harvest date and disposition information 30 
days prior to harvest, rather than 7 days prior to harvest. 
Factual and Policy Basis 
The factual and policy issues encountered when developing these rules include: 
1. 
Senate Bill 14-184 eliminated the May 1 deadline for program registration. The 
Department needs 30 days to process hemp applications.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
15 
2. 
The Department needs 3 -4 weeks to plan sampling. 
9.3 
Adopted August 5, 2014 – Effective September 30, 2014 
Statutory Authority 
These rules are proposed for adoption by the Commissioner of the Colorado Department of 
Agriculture (“CDA”) pursuant to his authority under the Industrial Hemp Regulatory Program Act 
(the “Act”), Sections 35-61-104(5) and 35-61-105(2), C.R.S. 
Purpose 
The purposes of these proposed rules are to make permanent emergency rules effective June 
11, 2014. Specifically, these amendments: 
1. 
Adopt a registration time period of 30 days prior to planting with the elimination of the 
May 1 registration deadline. 
2. 
Allow the Department to collect crop intended harvest date and disposition information 30 
days prior to harvest, rather than 7 days prior to harvest. 
Factual and Policy Basis 
The factual and policy issues encountered when developing these rules include: 
1. 
Senate Bill 14-184 eliminated the May 1 deadline for program registration. The 
Department needs 30 days to process hemp applications. 
2. 
The Department needs 3 -4 weeks to plan sampling. 
9.4 
Adopted February 11, 2015 – Effective March 30, 2015 
Statutory Authority 
These Rules are proposed for adoption by the Commissioner of the Colorado Department of 
Agriculture (“CDA”) pursuant to his authority under the Industrial Hemp Regulatory Program Act 
(the “Act”), Sections 35-61-104(5) and 35-61-105(2), C.R.S. 
Purpose 
The purposes of these proposed Rules are to: 
1. 
Amend the definition of “Commercial” in Rule 1.2. to establish clear separation between 
the activities permitted under a Commercial registration and a Research and 
Development registration. 
2. 
Amend the definition of “Law Enforcement” in Rule 1.7. 
3. 
Adopt a new Rule 1.8 to define “Registrant.” 
4. 
Adopt a new Rule 1.9 to define “Registration.” 
5. 
Adopt a new Rule 1.10 to define “Registered Land Area” and delete the definition of 
“Growing Area.”

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
16 
6. 
Amend the definition of “Research and Development” in Rule 1.11 to follow the 2014 
Farm Bill language. 
7. 
Adopt a new Rule 1.12 to define “Variety.” 
8. 
Amend language referencing site and growing area(s) used throughout the Rules to 
reflect the above definition changes. 
9. 
Amend language referencing sampling and analysis costs and add terms of payment 
used in Rules 2.1.7.3 and 2.2.7.3. 
10. 
Separate language from Rule 2.2.5 and create Rule 2.2.6 for Rule language consistency 
between Commercial and Research & Development Rules format. 
11. 
Create a new Rule 2.3 barring the transfer of ownership of a registration. 
12. 
Create a new Rule 2.4 language barring registration of one plant under two registrations. 
13. 
Create a new Rule 2.5 barring any cannabis plants other than Industrial Hemp on a 
registered land area. 
14. 
Create a new Rule 2.6 to define what can be included in a single registration. 
15. 
Amend registration fees in Rules 2.8 and 2.9 to cover the cost of administering the 
program. 
16. 
Adopt a new Rule 2.11 to require harvest of all plants within a registration period. Allow 
for material that is planted under one registration to be included in subsequent 
registrations through declaration during registration. 
17. 
Adopt a new Rule 2.13 limiting amendments to a registration. 
18. 
Adopt a new Rule 2.13 regarding processing of applications. 
19. 
Adopt a new Rule 2.14 requiring registrants to maintain current contact information with 
the Department. 
20. 
Amend Rules 3.1.2 and 3.4.1 to require reporting of all plant material used in an Industrial 
Hemp registered land area. 
21. 
Adopt new Rules 3.1.3 and 3.4.2 requiring registrants to report the intended use of all 
parts of the Industrial Hemp crop included in a registered land area. 
22. 
Adopt new Rules 3.2 and 3.5 requiring reporting of the varieties and location of all 
Industrial Hemp planted in a registered land area. 
23. 
Adopt a new Rule 3.5.3 requiring research and development registrants to verify that all 
the Industrial Hemp to be cultivated is reasonably believed to produce a crop with a THC 
of 0.3% or less on a dry weight basis. 
24. 
Amend Rules 3.3.2 and 3.6.2 to require reporting of specific crop location information at 
least 30 days prior to harvest. 
25. 
Adopt a new Rule 3.7 to require reporting of any changes in information previously 
submitted to the Department within 10 days.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
17 
26. 
Amend Rule 4.1 to allow sampling of all cannabis plants on a registered Industrial Hemp 
land area, allow sampling of up to 100% of the registrants, allow the Department to notify 
the registrant of inspection by methods other than certified mail, require registrants to 
contact the Department within 10 days of inspection notification and explain the 
consequence for failing to do so. 
27. 
Amend Rule 4.2 to allow access to all cannabis material associated with a registration. 
28. 
Amend Rules 4.3 and 4.3.1 to allow individual or composite sampling of all cannabis 
plants on a registered Industrial Hemp land area. 
29. 
Amend Rule 4.3.2 to allow more valid scientific testing protocols. 
30. 
Amend Rule 4.3.4 to include the updated language from existing Rule 4.3.4.1 and 
remove the term commercial so any registration found not in compliance could be 
suspended or revoked in accordance with C.R.S. 24-4-104. 
31. 
Amend Rule 4.4.2 to set terms of payment to 30 days of invoice. 
32. 
Amend Rule 5.1 to include the same 1.0% THC limit for a waiver from penalty as applied 
to commercial registrations. 
33. 
Amend Rule 6.1 to clarify scope and add summary suspension language for clarity 
purposes. 
34. 
Amend Rule 6.1.5 to include proper terminology for cannabis exceeding 0.3% THC. 
Factual and Policy Basis 
The factual and policy issues encountered when developing these Rules include: 
1. 
The revised definitions for “Commercial” and “Research and Development” in Rules 1.2 
and 1.11 are intended to establish a clear separation between the activities allowed 
under a Commercial registration and a Research and Development registration. All 
Industrial Hemp production activities not authorized by the 2014 Farm Bill Research and 
Development language, including all privately-conducted research and development, are 
covered by a commercial registration. In addition to private scientific research, this 
change in definitional language will allow research for competitive advantage or product 
development without limiting the sale or distribution of plant material used and produced 
under a commercial registration, similar to what commercial enterprises in other 
industries do for product development in a research division of a company. This Rule 
change meets the needs of registrants who have requested sale of material from their 
research and development registrations by aligning their research to be conducted under 
commercial registration without structurally changing their research practices. 
2. 
Rule 1.7 is intended to clarify the broad scope of governmental agencies involved in law 
enforcement and eliminate unnecessary language about their activities. 
3. 
Rules 1.8 and 1.9 are intended to define the difference between a person or entity who 
has been granted approval from and the authorization to grow Industrial Hemp on a 
specific site. 
4. 
Rule 1.10 creates a definition for an area registered to grow Industrial Hemp that includes 
property the registrant may want to include that is not a growing area.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
18 
5. 
Rule 1.12 creates a definition for plants used in the Rules that clarifies registration, 
planting and harvest requirements. The definition is also necessary for delineation 
purposes during sampling. 
6. 
The changes in Rules 2.1, 2.2, 3.1, and 3.4 are needed to make the language in those 
Rules consistent with other language in the Rules. 
7. 
Amending the language in 2.1.7.3 and 2.2.7.3 is intended to standardize the terminology 
with that used in Part 4, clarify the costs for which a registrant is responsible, and set the 
terms of payment which are not currently specified . This clarification is necessary 
because some registrants have delayed payment of fees until another registration is 
granted or until they have negotiated individual payment terms, creating administrative 
confusion and increasing program costs. 
8. 
Separating the requirements in Rule 2.2.6 and 2.2.5 improves consistency with 2.1.6 and 
2.1.5 for ease of Rule readability. 
9. 
The prohibition in Rule 2.3 on the transfer of registration is necessary to facilitate 
inspection and sampling and to prevent the transfer of registrations to persons or entities 
who would not otherwise qualify for a registration due to previous sanctions and 
penalties. This also closes a potential loophole through which a legally acquired Industrial 
Hemp registration could be transferred to another individual for purposes of evasion in 
growing or transporting of Marijuana. 
10. 
Rule 2.4 is necessary to avoid confusion when a registrant holds multiple registrations. 
This Rule will enable the Department to accurately identify, inspect and sample all of the 
plants grown under a specific registration. 
11. 
Under Article XVIII, Section 16 of the Colorado Constitution (Adopted by voters as 
“Amendment 64”) “Industrial Hemp” is defined and regulated separately from “Marijuana”. 
The Department therefore has no legal jurisdiction over cannabis that contains more than 
0.3% THC on a dry weight basis because it is constitutionally defined as Marijuana and 
not Industrial Hemp. The Department thus does not have the authority to grant the 
possession or use of any cannabis material above 0.3% THC within its Industrial Hemp 
registration program; all such material is regulated as Marijuana under the authority of the 
Department of Revenue. Rule 2.5 is necessary to prevent the use or presence of plant 
material in a registered land area that would be outside the Department of Agriculture’s 
jurisdiction. The proposed Rule language does not limit the right to possess or conduct 
Marijuana research but does prevent Marijuana material from knowingly being used 
under the Industrial Hemp program by excluding it from the area the registrant has 
agreed is dedicated to Industrial Hemp. 
12. 
Rule 2.6 defines what may be included in a single registration. The change is necessary 
to track registration sites, what is planted on a registered land area and ensure accurate 
testing can be done. The current system has created administrative issues as registrants 
have added sites miles away from existing registrations during the growing season and 
cancelled growing areas registered under the same registration, creating situations where 
it has become difficult to track where plant material currently is being grown for inspection 
purposes. These changes in registrations have also increased the cost of program 
administration as the Department attempts to track sites currently registered to grow 
Industrial Hemp. The Rule does not limit the registrants ability to stagger planting within a 
registered land area. The Rule is also intended to facilitate the establishment of an 
equitable fee structure to self-fund the program as mandated in the Act.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
19 
13. 
The Department is proposing to increase the fees in Rule 2.8 and 2.9 to comply with the 
self-funding mandate set forth in Section 35-61-106 (2), C.R.S. Current fees have 
generated less than 20% of the necessary revenue to support the program. Section 35-
61-106 (2), C.R.S., limits the sources of revenue to registration fees and land area. 
Leaving registration fees at current levels would require per acre fees to exceed $55. The 
new registration fee structure was developed to equitably generate sufficient revenue to 
self-fund the program at current registration levels. The fees for Commercial and 
Research & Development registrations were set at the same level so as not to favor 
either type of registration or disadvantage research for competitive advantage conducted 
under a commercial registration. 
14. 
Section 35-61-104(3), C.R.S. defines the effective period of a valid registration to one 
year. To regulate the program it is necessary for plant material to be registered before 
planting as required in Rules 2.1 and 2.2. To insure that all plant material is regulated 
under a valid registration and therefore protected under Section 35-61-102(2), C.R.S., 
Rule 2.11 was created to clarify the requirement to harvest within a registration and add 
language necessary for the perpetuation of genetics. 
15. 
Rule 2.12 is necessary to prohibit the expansion of a registration outside of the original 
land area described in the application for registration. Without this limitation it is very 
difficult and time consuming for the Department to track plant material to a registration or 
ensure compliance with planting reports. Registrants have used the current amendment 
language to establish new growing sites and assume sites originally registered to another 
registrant. The current system allowing registrants to add new locations through 
amendments without cost has significantly increased the administrative costs of the 
program which must be passed on to all registrants. 
16. 
Rule 2.13 insures that the cost to process an application incurred by the Department prior 
and regardless of whether a registration is issued are not passed along to other 
registrants should a registration not be granted. Under Section 35-61-106(2), C.R.S., the 
Commissioner is required to collect fees to cover all of the program’s costs, including 
those associated with applications that are denied. 
17. 
The Department has spent considerable resources trying to contact the registrants after 
registration due to changes in contact information. This has increased administrative 
costs for the program. Rule 2.14 requires registrant contact information remain current so 
the Department can contact registrants regarding sampling and inspection without added 
administrative costs. Some registrants have changed their contact information including 
mailing address, e-mail address and phone numbers to evade requests by the 
Department to conduct inspections. 
18. 
Rules 3.1.2 and 3.4.1 require a registrant to disclose all plant material intended for use in 
a registered land area to be disclosed. This is necessary to enable the Department to 
confirm that all plant material used within a land area registered with the Industrial Hemp 
program is of a type and variety that will produce plants with a THC content not to exceed 
0.3% on a dry weight basis. 
19. 
Rules 3.1.3 and 3.4.2 are necessary to facilitate the inspection and sampling of Industrial 
Hemp grown in the program. The Industrial Hemp inspection is done by a limited number 
of inspectors who also inspect multiple other programs for the Department. To 
accomplish inspections required for all the programs considerable planning and 
coordination occurs months prior to the need to facilitate optimum use of inspection staff 
and control costs.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
20 
20. 
The requirement of a planting report in Rules 3.2 and 3.5 is necessary for the Department 
to determine what fields have actually been planted so we can determine what fields may 
need inspection, allocate resources for inspection, collect variety information to support a 
seed certification program and collect agronomic data on the crop to determine economic 
value to the state. 
21. 
Rule 3.5.3 is intended to ensure that research and development registrants plant material 
that they reasonably believe will not exceed 0.3% THC on a dry weight basis and that all 
material used in the research project is included in the planting report. 
22. 
Rules 3.3.2 and 3.6.2 are necessary for the Department to determine what will be 
harvested compared to what was actually planted, identify gaps, and schedule 
inspections appropriately. This will also allow the Department to collect harvest data to 
determine the size of the final crop and document crop size developments for economic 
purposes. 
23. 
Rule 3.7 is necessary to ensure that the Department has the most current information on 
all registrants so that it can effectively plan inspection resources and monitor industry 
developments. 
24. 
The change in Rule 4.1 allowing sampling of up to 100% of registrants is necessary to 
accommodate the July 1, 2014 statutory change allowing year round registration while 
still conducting an effective inspection program including testing in the event an 
unanticipated violation is reported or suspected. The amended language also eliminates 
the exemption from testing after two years which could prevent the Department from 
retesting registrants with prior violations in a timely or effective manner. The current 
language has the potential for abuse by registrants who have been tested for two years 
and thus could grow Marijuana without concern of inspection the third year. 
The amended language in Rule 4.1 with respect to notice of inspection allows the 
Department to communicate with the registrants in a method agreed to with the registrant 
or deemed effective from previous communications with the registrant. The use of 
certified mail has allowed some registrants to see the Department is sending them 
communication and avoid signing for it in an effort to evade inspection notification. In 
other cases the address provided has been returned as undeliverable via certified mail 
and the registrant has asked for an e-mail or phone call so they can comply. 
The time period for response to notification was changed from 30 days after notification 
to 10 days to allow the Department to determine harvest timing and arrange for 
inspections. The 30 days hampered the Departments ability to coordinate inspections of 
multiple sites increasing the inspection travel costs for the registrant as harvest in many 
cases was more immediate once the registrant replied. 
25. 
Registrants have agreed under Rule 2.5 not to include plant material known or that 
should reasonably be known will exceed 0.3% THC on a registered land as terms of 
registration. This amended section of 4.2 is necessary to support, verify and enforce 
Rules 2.5, 3.1.2, 3.4.1, 4.1, 4.3, and 4.3.1. 
The changes to Rule 4.2 are necessary to allow the Department to inspect all plants in 
the registered land area. Registrants have used the current Rule language to assert that 
some plants used by them for cultivation of Industrial Hemp cannot be tested by the 
Department because they are Marijuana that is being grown for personal use or under a 
Medical Marijuana card application. The amendments to Rule 4.2 are necessary to verify 
compliance with Rules 2.5, 3.1.2, 3.4.1, 4.2, 4.3, and 4.3.1 which prohibit the presence or 
use of Marijuana within a land area registered for the cultivation of Industrial Hemp.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
21 
26. 
The amended language in Rules 4.3 and 4.3.1 allows all cannabis material grown in a 
land area under an Industrial Hemp registration to be sampled. It allows the Department 
or registrant to determine if a specific plant or group of plants is to be sampled. This 
amended language allows the Department to work with Industrial Hemp breeding projects 
where sampling every individual plant would be cost prohibitive to a registrant and could 
effectively destroy a breeding program if all plants were selected for inspection. 
27. 
The amended language in Rule 4.3.2 clarifies a procedural process that inaccurately 
represented scientific methodology. Samples are divided after preparation for testing so 
that the two samples are of the same composite make up. 
28. 
The amended language in Rule 4.3.4 clarifies the legal effect of tests results that exceed 
0.3% THC for both commercial and research and development registrants. 
29. 
The amended language in Rule 4.4.2 is for administrative purpose. Registrants have 
used the lack of clear terms of payment in Rule as a negotiation point to make payment 
plans for services or delay payment until a new registration is needed. 
30. 
Amending Rule 5.1 to include an upper THC limit in plant material used in research and 
development is necessary to ensure programs are not knowingly using Marijuana with a 
high THC content under an Industrial Hemp registration. 
31. 
The amendment to Rule 6.1 clarifies that a registration may be summarily suspended in 
appropriate circumstances under 35-61-107 and 24-4-104, C.R.S. 
32. 
The amendment to Rule 6.1.5 conforms with the changes to other Rules prohibiting the 
presence or use of plant material that exceeds 0.3% THC on a registered land area. 
33. 
These amendments incorporate changes as a result of the Department’s Regulatory 
Efficiency Review Process. 
9.5 
Adopted February 10, 2016-Effective March 30, 2016 
Statutory Authority 
These Rules are proposed for adoption by the Commissioner of the Colorado Department of 
Agriculture (“CDA”) pursuant to his authority under the Industrial Hemp Regulatory Program Act 
(the “Act”), Sections 35-61-104(5) and 35-61-105(2), C.R.S. 
Purpose 
1. 
Adopt a new Rule 1.2 defining “CDA Approved Certified Seed”. 
2. 
Adopt a new Rule 1.6 defining “Harvest”. 
3. 
Adopt a new Rule 2.1.8 requiring Registrants to have all legal rights necessary to 
cultivate Industrial Hemp on a Registered Land Area. 
4. 
Amend language in Rule 2.11 to clarify the process for material that is perpetuated from 
one Registration to another Registration. 
5. 
Adopt a new Rule 2.15 clarifying that land area cannot be covered by more than one 
Registration.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
22 
6. 
Amend Rules 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5 and 3.6 to require reports be submitted on a form 
provided by the Commissioner. 
7. 
Amend Rules 3.2 and 3.5 to address reporting of any volunteer Cannabis plants that the 
Registrant chooses to cultivate rather than destroy. 
8. 
Adopt Rules 3.2.3 and 3.5.3 specifying when submission of a Planting Report is required. 
9. 
Adopt Rules 3.3.3 and 3.6.3 requiring notification to the Commissioner of any changes to 
the reported harvest date of more than 5 days. 
10. 
Adopt a new Rule 4.2 to allow the Commissioner to do additional inspection or sampling 
to confirm compliance with the Act and Rules. 
11. 
Adopt a new Rule 4.3 to allow for inspection or sampling of a Registered Land Area that 
is voluntarily exiting the program. 
12. 
Amend Rule 4.5.4 to clarify the legal limits where law enforcement has jurisdiction. 
13. 
Adopt a new Rule 4.6 to allow reduced testing for Registrants who plant CDA Approved 
Certified Seed. 
14. 
Adopt a new Rule 5.3 to establish a time period for requesting a waiver. 
15. 
Adopt a new Part 7 to allow the Department to approve varieties of Industrial Hemp as 
CDA Approved Certified Seed and establish fees to cover the costs of the program. 
16. 
Make non-substantive edits with respect to wording and capitalization changes 
throughout to improve consistency and readability. 
Factual and Policy Basis 
The factual and policy issues encountered when developing these Rules include: 
1. 
The definition in Rule 1.2 of “CDA Approved Certified Seed” is intended to establish the 
term used in the development of a seed program to assist Industrial Hemp growers to 
purchase seed that is known to produce mature plants that will not exceed 0.3% THC. 
2. 
The definition in Rule 1.6 of “Harvest” is intended to clarify when reporting to the 
Department is required and assist Industrial Hemp growers in meeting the reporting 
requirements. 
3. 
Rule 2.1.8 is intended to ensure that the Department has the ability to inspect and 
sample land areas Registered in the Industrial Hemp Program and ensure that 
Registrants understand their obligations when entering into land lease agreements. 
4. 
Rule 2.11 will allow Registrants the ability to carry plant material over from one 
Registration that is expiring into another Registration. The Rule will allow plant material to 
finish its life cycle under a new Registration rather than requiring premature harvest 
under the Registration period in which it was planted. This will allow perpetuation of 
parent stock for breeding purposes. 
5. 
Rule 2.15 will ensure the Department has the ability to determine which Registration 
covers the plant material on a Registered Land Area and can apply any sanctions that 
may occur only to the Registration the plants are cultivated under.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
23 
6. 
The Amendments to Rules 3.1 through 3.6 requiring use of forms provided by the 
Department will ensure that the information reported by Registrants is complete and 
consistent. 
7. 
The amendments to Rules 3.2 and 3.5 allow for the Registration and cultivation of 
volunteer plants so long as they are reported within 10 days of emergence. This provision 
allows growers to register volunteer plants on land areas on which Industrial Hemp was 
previously grown. 
8. 
Rules 3.2.3 and 3.5.3 are intended to clarify for Registrants how to document the 
movement of plant material within or into a Registered Land Area. This facilitates the 
movement of young plant material to final growing locations. 
9. 
Rules 3.3.3 and 3.6.3 provide growers a 10 day window for harvest. This recognizes the 
harvest date may vary due to factors beyond a Registrant’s control such as weather 
events. 
10. 
Rule 4.2 clarifies that the Department has the authority to conduct inspections and 
sampling in addition to the routine inspection and sampling described in Rule 4.1 when 
the Department determines that it is necessary to ensure compliance with the Act and 
Rules. 
11. 
Rule 4.3 ensures that a Registrant cannot avoid inspection and sampling through early 
termination of their Registration. 
12. 
Rule 4.5.4 was changed to clarify that 0.3% delta-9 THC concentration is the legal limit of 
the Program and does not limit the Departments ability to reach out to law enforcement 
when appropriate circumstances arise. 
13. 
Rule 4.6 will allow the Department to set testing protocols for fields planted with CDA 
Approved Certified Seed that differ from the protocols for fields planted with non-certified 
seed. Registrants who plant CDA Approved Certified Seed will not be subjected to 
inspection and testing fees unless inspections establish that the variety planted was not 
the same variety as indicated on the Planting Report. 
14. 
Rule 5.3 sets a reasonable time for a Registrant to indicate his desire to exercise the 
waiver provisions set forth in Rule 5.1 and 5.2. The Rule is necessary to ensure the 
Department can communicate with law enforcement the timeliness of actions the 
Registrant is taking to destroy the crop should he chose to exercise the waiver. 
15. 
Under Rule 7.1 a variety of seed to be certified must first undergo testing conducted by 
the Department to verify that it will consistently produce mature plants with a delta-9 THC 
concentration at or below 0.3% on a dry weight basis. These trials will be conducted in 
various regions in the state to ensure stability across the different growing environments 
in the state. Varieties approved by the Department may be certified by Colorado State 
University or the authorized seed certifying agency of another state when produced under 
certified field standards. 
16. 
Rules 7.2 and 7.3 establishes the mechanism for equitably funding the CDA Approved 
Certified Seed program between the breeder applicants and Registrants. This is intended 
to encourage the development of CDA Approved Certified Seed while also recognizing 
the economic benefits to Registrants of planting CDA Approved Certified Seed.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
24 
9.6. 
Adopted February 8, 2017 -Effective March 30, 2017 
Statutory Authority 
These Rules are proposed for adoption by the Commissioner of the Colorado Department of 
Agriculture (“CDA”) pursuant to his authority under the Industrial Hemp Regulatory Program Act 
(the “act”), Sections 35-61-104(5) and 35-61-105(2), C.R.S. 
Purpose 
The purpose of these proposed Rules are to: 
1. 
Amend the definition of “CDA Approved Certified Seed” in Rule 1.2. 
2. 
Amend the definition of “Harvest” in Rule 1.6 to add the common language used to define 
the term “Harvest”. 
3. 
Amend Rules 2.1.6, 2.2.6, 3.1.2 and 3.4.2 to remove premature requirement for 
submitting a variety location map. 
4. 
Amend Rules 3.2.2 and 3.5.2 to move the variety location requirements to a more 
appropriate time when the Registrants can comply. 
5. 
Amend Rule 3.5.3 to exempt reporting of changes in growing container except for larger 
sizes. 
6. 
Adopt Rules 3.3.4 and 3.6.4 to allow the removal of unwanted male Cannabis plants prior 
to harvest without submitting a Harvest Report. 
7. 
Amend Rule 4.2 to include both present and past tense of potential violations as cause 
for inspection. 
8. 
Amend Part 6 to expand the scope of the obligation to cooperate and assist the 
Department to all aspects of the administration and enforcement of the Act and these 
Rules. 
9. 
Amend Rule 7.1 to clarify the requirements for CDA Approved Certified Seed. 
10. 
Adopt Rules 7.1.1, 7.1.2, 7.1.3 and 7.1.4 to add clarity to the CDA Approved Certified 
Seed process. 
11. 
Make typographical, grammatical, and non-substantive changes throughout for 
clarification. 
Factual and Policy Basis 
The factual and policy issues encountered when developing these Rules include: 
1. 
Rule 1.2 was amended to clarify that the term “CDA Approved Certified Seed” is specific 
to seed lots that meet the program standards and not just the variety name. 
2. 
The definition of “Harvest” in Rule 1.6 was amended to clarify that this term includes the 
normal and common practice of reaping a mature plant.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
25 
3. 
The map requirements under Rules 2.1.6, 2.2.6, 3.1.2 and 3.4.2 as part of their Pre-
Planting requirement required premature reporting by Registrants. Realigning the time of 
reporting to the Planting Report in Rules 3.2.2 and 3.5.2 allows Registrants to accurately 
report their final planting locations at the appropriate time. 
4. 
Amending Rule 3.5.3 to reduce the reporting burden for normal occurrences of the 
growing such as broken pots while still allows for the Department to adequately regulate 
the cultivation and growing cycle. 
5. 
The removal of unwanted male plants is a common practice in breeding programs and all 
female plant production. New Rules 3.3.4 and 3.6.4 accommodate and facilitate this 
industry practice by eliminating the need to file unnecessary Harvest Reports for 
discarded male plants within some specific parameters. 
6. 
Amend Part 6 to reflect the equal importance of cooperation and assistance by an 
applicant or registrant with all aspects of the administration of the program. This will help 
ensure the Commissioner has all information necessary to ensure compliance with the 
Program requirements. 
7. 
The amendment to Rule 7.1 identifies CDA Approved Certified Seed as seed that will 
produce mature plants that will not exceed the .3% delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol 
concentration standard. The Rule distinguishes CDA Approved Certified Seed from other 
certified seed not approved by the CDA for which the mature plants’ delta-9 
tetrahydrocannabinol concentration has not been verified in CDA trials conducted across 
the state. 
8. 
Rule 7.1.1 establishes a system through a variety review board to ensure that the 
investments in breeding and the intellectual property rights of breeders are protected. 
Breeders entering a variety must be able to demonstrate ownership of the variety to a 
panel of experts by identifying unique characteristics that distinguish their entry from 
other varieties. 
9. 
Rule 7.1.2 ensures that the information submitted to the variety review board accurately 
represents the variety when viewed in the field and ensures integrity in the process. 
10. 
Rule 7.1.3 ensures the same production practices used in other agricultural crops are 
applied to CDA Approved Certified Seed lots to ensure purity and trueness to type. 
11. 
The labeling requirement in Rule 7.1.4 provides consumer confidence and easily 
identifies seed being purchased as true to type and pure, and verifies that mature plants 
of this variety have not surpassed the .3% delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration 
limit in CDA trials conducted across the state. 
9.7. 
Adopted February 22, 2018 – Effective April 15, 2018 
Statutory Authority 
These Rules are proposed for adoption by the Commissioner of the Colorado Department of 
Agriculture (“CDA”) pursuant to his authority under the Industrial Hemp Regulatory Program Act 
(the “act”), Section 35-61-104(5), C.R.S. 
Purpose 
1. 
Amend and clarify the definitions of “commercial” and “research and development”.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
26 
2. 
Amend the definition of “harvest” to add the common language used to define the term 
“harvest” to include the practice of taking cuttings. 
3. 
The changes to Rule 4.7.2 are necessary to recapture language that was inadvertently 
deleted during the last rulemaking. 
4. 
Amend Rule 7.3 to require reporting on a form provided by the Commissioner in order for 
the Department to capture additional information as deemed necessary by the certified 
seed program. 
Factual and policy basis 
1. 
To clarify the language in 1.3 and 1.12 and make it consistent with the implementation of 
the program. 
2. 
The definition of “harvest” was amended to clarify that this term includes the normal and 
common practice of harvesting cuttings. 
3. 
Add language that was intended to be included in Rule 4.7.2 and was inadvertently 
deleted during the last rulemaking. 
4. 
The amendment to Rule 7.3 allows the Department to track varietal identity entering into 
the certified seed program. 
9.8. 
Adopted February 13, 2019 – Effective March 30, 2019 
Statutory Authority 
These Rules are proposed for adoption by the Commissioner of the Colorado Department of 
Agriculture (“CDA”) pursuant to his authority under the Industrial Hemp Regulatory Program Act 
(the “Act”), § 35-61-104(5) and 35-61-105(2) C.R.S. 
Purpose 
The purposes of these proposed Rules are to: 
1. 
Adopt a new Rule 1.9 to define “Planting,” 
2. 
Amend Rule 2.1.2 to clarify that an entity can be a business or an individual. 
3. 
Amend Rules 2.1.6 and 2.2.6 to clarify that both outdoor acres and indoor square feet 
should be included on the required map. 
4. 
Amend Rule 2.2.2 by removing the types of businesses. 
5. 
Amend Rule 2.2.3 by removing the term “Business.” 
6. 
Amend Rule 2.2.4 to mirror correct language as written in Rule 2.1.4. 
7. 
Amend registration fees in Rules 2.8 and 2.9 to cover the cost of administering the 
program. Amend Rule 2.9 to clarify that the application fee for an institution of higher 
education may be waived. 
8. 
Adopt Rules 3.2.4 and 3.5.4 to document requirements for CDA Approved Certified Seed 
plantings on Planting Reports.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
27 
9. 
Amend Rules 3.3.3 and 3.6.3 to clarify harvest reporting requirements. 
10. 
Amend Rules 3.3.4 and 3.6.4 to clarify when a Harvest Report does not need to be 
submitted. 
11. 
Amend Rule 4.1 to change the requirement for disciplinary action. 
12. 
Amend Rule 4.7 to include “costs” along with fees. 
13. 
Amend Rule 4.7.1 to a fee that adjusts the inspection fee to a set amount. 
14. 
Amend Rule 4.7.2 to clarify when fees and costs are due. 
15. 
Amend Rule 7.1.1 to conditional approval with the Colorado Seed Growers Association, 
pending the Department’s validations of THC level and trueness to type. 
16. 
Adoption of Rule 7.4 allows CDA to identify CDA Approved Certified Seed production 
fields at the time of application. 
Factual and Policy basis 
The factual and policy issues encountered when developing these Rules include: 
1. 
The definition of “Planting” in Rule 1.9 clarifies that “Planting” includes all phases of the 
various types of cultivation practices, voluntary plant emergence, and plant movement 
including within Registered Land Areas and to Registered Land Areas. This rule is 
necessary to clarify when a Planting Report must be submitted. 
2 
Amended rule 2.1.2 deletes the word “business” before the word “entity”. This rule is 
necessary to clarify that a sole proprietor is an entity but not necessarily a business 
entity. 
3. 
Amendments in Rules 2.1.6 and 2.2.6 clarify that an application for a Registered Land 
Area that includes both outdoor acreage and indoor square feet must include a map that 
shows the boundaries and dimensions of both the outdoor acreage and indoor square 
feet. The term “Registered” is deleted clarifying that a land area is not registered until a 
Registration is issued. The term “grow” replaces “cultivate” in accordance with generally 
accepted agricultural practices. These revisions are necessary because they provide 
accuracy in rule language which is good practice and contributes to program integrity. 
4. 
Amendments in Rule 2.2.2. clarify that a business is not the type of organization that is 
issued a Research and Development Registration. This rule is necessary to clarify that 
non-commercial organizations such as institutions of higher education are issued 
Research and Development Registrations. 
5. 
Amended language in Rule 2.2.3 deletes the term “business” as business organizations 
are not issued Research and Development Registrations. This Rule is necessary to 
clarify that the name of an organization on a Research and Development Registration 
cannot be a business organization. 
6. 
Amended language in Rule 2.2.4 is a housekeeping correction that makes the language 
consistent with Rule 2.1.4.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
28 
7. 
The Department is proposing to increase the fees provided in Rules 2.8 and 2.9 for 
indoor square feet from $.33/1000 square feet to $3.00/1000 square feet. Under § 35-61-
106(2) C.R.S. the Commissioner is required to collect fees to cover all of the program’s 
costs including those associated with indoor grow areas that generate multiple reports. 
Amended Rule 2.9 allows the Department to waive the application fee for a Research 
and development registration for an institution of higher education in an effort to 
encourage research and development. 
8. 
Adoption of Rules 3.2.4 and 3.5.4 are necessary for the CDA to track and recognize 
plantings of CDA Approved Certified Seed. 
9. 
Amended language in Rules 3.3.3 and 3.6.3 clarifies that reporting a change in harvest 
date must be done by submitting an “Amended Harvest Report”. Rules 3.3.3 and 3.6.3 
also clarify that if a change in harvest date is submitted and the crop is sampled this may 
require that the Registrant retain possession and control of the crop in its harvested form 
until the Department receives test results. This rule is necessary because it prevents 
material from entering the stream of commerce pending test results. 
10. 
The removal of both unwanted male and female plants is a common practice in breeding 
programs and a common production practice. Amended Rules 3.3.4 and 3.6.4 are 
necessary in order to accommodate and facilitate this industry practice of eliminating 
infested and unwanted plants. 
11. 
Amended Rule 4.1 changes the disciplinary action from mandatory to allowing the 
Department discretion to work with a Registrant. 
12. 
Amend Rule 4.7 to include “Costs” along with Fees is a non-substantive edit that clarifies 
Rule 4.7. 
13. 
Amended Rule 4.7.1 allows the Department to set a statewide fee to cover inspection 
costs more equitably. 
14. 
Amended Rule 4.7.2 clarifies that inspection fees and laboratory costs are due to the 
Department within 30 days of invoice. 
15. 
Rule 7.1.1 establishes a system through a variety review board (Colorado State 
University Seed Certification or Association of Seed Certifying Agencies) to ensure that 
the investments in breeding and the intellectual property rights of breeders are protected. 
Breeders entering a variety must be able to demonstrate ownership of the variety to a 
panel of experts by identifying unique characteristics that distinguish their entry from 
other varieties. This rule is necessary to clarify that the variety review board will only 
conditionally approve the variety(s) prior to CDA validation of THC level. 
16. 
Adoption of Rule 7.4 requires a member of the Colorado Seed Growers Association who 
intends to grow CDA Approved Certified Seed to provide on a form approved by the 
Commissioner to identify and track where the seed will be grown. 
9.9. 
Adopted June 9, 2021 – Effective July 30, 2021 
Statutory Authority 
These Rules are proposed for adoption by the Commissioner of the Colorado Department of 
Agriculture (“CDA”) pursuant to their authority under the Industrial Hemp Regulatory Program Act 
(the “Act”), § 35-61-104(5) and 35-61-105(2) C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
29 
Purpose 
The purposes of these proposed Rules are to align Colorado’s hemp program with Federal law 
and Colorado SB 20-197, effective September 1, 2020. Generally, the proposed changes include 
updating the text to remove typographical and other errors, non-critical spelling and grammatical 
errors. 
Specifically, the proposed changes to each of the parts are as follows: 
1. 
Changes to Part 1, Definitions, to conform definitions within these rules to revisions made 
to the Industrial Hemp Regulatory Program Act and to USDA’s Domestic Hemp 
Production Program. 
2. 
Changes to Part 2 to identify additional information that USDA’s Domestic Hemp 
Production Program requires a state agency with primary regulatory authority over the 
production of hemp to gather from registrants. 
3. 
Changes to Part 3 to remove the references to the non-existent certified seed program. 
Removing 3.3.4, as it was an exception to harvest reporting that is no longer applicable. 
Finally, add specific identification of what records a registrant must maintain, how long 
those records must be maintained, and what agencies must be permitted access to those 
records. 
4. 
Changes to Part 4 to conform the rule to the USDA’s Domestic Hemp Production 
Program, including that 100 percent of all Registrants must be tested and that all lots 
grown at a Registered Land Area must be tested. Further revisions to Part 4 establish a 
random inspection program to comply with USDA’s Domestic Hemp Production Program. 
The proposed changes to 4.6.5 through 4.6.7 establish that a producer may not harvest 
prior to sample collection and establish restrictions with what a producer may do with the 
producer’s hemp after sampling and before receiving results and after receiving sample 
test results that show the tested hemp is above the Acceptable Hemp THC level. Part 
4.6.8 provides specific restrictions against commingling hemp from any other lots during 
sampling or laboratory analysis. Changes to 4.7.1 contemplate that the department will 
not test all registrants and, therefore, must collect the testing fee from each one sampled. 
The addition of Part 4.8 establishes the authorized sampler program, including to provide 
for authorized sampler training, testing, registration, and cancelation of registrations. 
5. 
Changes to Part 6 to establish the three specific violations that result in a producer’s 
having committed a violation negligently. As well, the new rules provide that any producer 
who has committed a negligent violation must submit to a correction action plan. The 
proposed change identifies the elements necessary to be part of any such corrective 
action plan. Finally, the proposed changes to Part 6 identify the increased penalties to 
any person who commits a violation with a culpable mental state greater than negligence. 
6. 
Delete Part 7 to reflect that Hemp Seed Certification is no longer a provision 
contemplated by Colorado’s Industrial Hemp Regulatory Program Act. Seed certification 
rests under the authority of the Colorado Seed Growers Association and Colorado State 
University. 
7. 
Addition of Part 8 to identify that a list of testing laboratories will be maintained that the 
Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment have certified to conduct hemp 
testing in Colorado. The addition of Part 8 also requires that authorized samplers, as 
approved by the Department, must submit their sample results only to those laboratories 
that the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment has certified.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
30 
Factual and Policy Basis 
The factual and policy issues encountered when developing these rules include: 
Changes to state and federal law constitute the factual issues that required the proposed 
changes to this rule. 
In 2018, the US Congress amended the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, the Agricultural 
Improvement Act of 2018, Pub. L. 115-334 (the “2018 Farm Bill”). The 2018 Farm Bill legalized 
the production of hemp nationwide and offered states and tribes that wanted the authority to 
regulate the production of hemp within their borders to submit individual plans to USDA pursuant 
to rules USDA would adopt. 
In 2019, Colorado’s General Assembly amended the Industrial Hemp Regulatory Program Act to 
authorize the Commissioner to submit a hemp management plan in accordance with the 2018 
Farm Bill. The General Assembly further authorized the Commissioner to consult with 
stakeholders, including local governments and state and federal and law enforcement agencies 
and required the Commissioner to consult with private industry. Throughout 2019, the 
Commissioner, by means of the Colorado Hemp Advancement and Management Plan (CHAMP) 
met with representatives of all the permissive and required stakeholders to gather information 
related to the development of industrial hemp in Colorado and to prepare to submit a state plan 
after USDA issued its rules. 
In October 2019, USDA issued an interim final rule, and in 2020 Colorado’s General Assembly 
again amended the Industrial Hemp Regulatory Program Act by means of SB 20-197 to comport 
to USDA’s Interim Final Rules. In January 2021, USDA issued its final rule. 
The proposed rules represent the Commissioner’s response to revised federal and state 
requirements as well as her response to stakeholder input and involvement throughout the 
development process. 
Senate Bill 20 -197 aligned Colorado’s Industrial Hemp Program with Federal law. Rules were 
developed to further clarify and communicate with registrants and stakeholders regarding 
compliance with Federal law. 
The Department considered comments received at its May 25, 2021, rule-making hearing. In 
consideration of the relevant comments, the Department provides the following. First, the 
Department will engage in subsequent rule-making upon USDA’s approval of Colorado’s 
submitted state plan. That rule-making will, in part, address the comment to make a Registrant’s 
failure to report to the Farm Services Agency a violation of law; consider rules regarding third 
party samplers; and implement alternative and performance-based sampling. While the 
Department is aware of proposed legislation currently before Colorado’s General Assembly, the 
Department will not promulgate changes to these rules to implement proposed statutory changes. 
The Department will await the bill’s passage to be able to respond completely to all statutory 
changes. Use of the general word “cannabis” in parts of the rule is specific and intentional to 
distinguish those plants of the genus Cannabis Sativa L. Whose THC content is unknown from 
those whose THC content is known to be at or below 0.3 percent THC and thus “hemp.” With 
regard to the suggestion to amend 4.6.6 to include a reference to a total THC concentration of 0.3 
percent on a dry-weight basis, that is unnecessary in light of Rule 4.6.7. Finally, the five-year 
penalty for those who have committed three negligent violations of the law in a five-year period is 
required by USDA’s Final Rule and may not be adjusted at the state level.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
31 
9.10. 
Adopted November 10, 2021 – Effective December 31, 2021 
Statutory Authority 
The Commissioner of Agriculture of the Colorado Department of Agriculture (“CDA”) adopts these 
rules pursuant to her authority under the Industrial Hemp Regulatory Program Act (the “Act”), §§ 
35-61-104(5) 35-61-105(2), 35-61-105.5(2)(a), 35-61-113(1), and 35-61-113(2)(a) and (c), C.R.S. 
Purpose 
The purposes of these Rules are to align Colorado’s hemp program with federal law, including 7 
CFR 990, which became effective January 19, 2021. Generally, the changes to these rules align 
Colorado’s regulatory processes under the Industrial Hemp Regulatory Program with the federal 
law to ensure Colorado’s compliance with federal law and Colorado’s state plan to regulate hemp 
in Colorado, which USDA-AMS approved in July 2021. USDA’s final rule for its “Domestic Hemp 
Production Program” created new opportunities for states to involve authorized samplers, to 
permit remediation of hemp that tested above the acceptable hemp THC level, and to authorize 
on-farm disposal of cannabis that tested above the acceptable hemp THC level and above the 
1.0 percent THC on a dry-weight basis threshold. 
In June 2021, the Department submitted its proposed plan to USDA-AMS, which plan USDA-
AMS approved in July 2021, the “State Plan.” With the Department’s submission of its State Plan, 
the Department identified rules that it would change in its fall rule-making to authorize the 
Department and Commissioner to regulate Colorado’s production of hemp consistently with 
federal law and Colorado’s approved State Plan. 
Specifically, the proposed changes to each of the parts are as follows: 
1. 
Changes to Part 1, Definitions, add definitions and conform existing definitions to 
revisions made to the Industrial Hemp Regulatory Program Act and to USDA’s Domestic 
Hemp Production Program. 
2. 
Changes to Part 2 identify additional information that USDA’s Domestic Hemp Production 
Program requires a state agency with primary regulatory authority over the production of 
hemp to gather from registrants and removes unnecessary statements related to 
reporting of confidential business information to law enforcement. Specific to these 
changes, the Department makes clear that no person may cultivate hemp in a proposed 
registered land area until the Commissioner has approved, and noticed the registrant of 
such approval, of a registrant’s application to cultivate hemp. 
3. 
Changes to Part 3 reduce and streamline the information a registrant must submit to the 
Department to reduce the paperwork burden on registrants and the Department where 
the Department recognized that information is duplicative or unnecessary. Further, 
changes in Part 3 permit a registrant to cultivate a registered land area to remove plants 
that have been affected by poor health, pest, disease, or weather events and to remove 
hermaphrodite plants without requiring any harvest report to the Department. Finally, Part 
3.7 requires registrants to file acreage reports, including reports of changes to acreage 
reports, with the Farm Services Agency of the United States Department of Agriculture to 
comply with the requirements in Colorado’s State Plan and USDA’s Domestic Hemp 
Production Program.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
32 
4. 
Changes to Part 4 conform the rule to the USDA’s Domestic Hemp Production Program, 
including that all hemp must be sampled prior to harvest and that a registrant must 
coordinate such sampling by contacting an Authorized Sampler or the Department. Part 4 
also introduces CDPHE’s testing laboratory protocols and CDPHE’s laboratory and 
testing standard operating procedures. Part 4 also clarifies that the Commissioner may 
exercise disciplinary actions, including suspension or revocation of a registration, for test 
results that are above the acceptable hemp THC level. Part 4 further introduces both 
remediation and disposal options and guidelines to permit registrants whose crop tests 
above the acceptable hemp THC level either to remediate or dispose of a non-compliant 
crop and sets forth the Department’s standards for post-remediation sampling to ensure 
that remediated product tests at or below the acceptable hemp THC level. Finally, Part 4 
establishes the Department’s new performance-based sampling program, which identifies 
the categories of registrants who may, at the time of application for registration, petition 
the Department for inclusion in a sampling program that does not require 100 percent 
testing of all lots grown. 
5. 
The Department removed the original Part 5 because introduction of the remediation and 
disposal options in Part 4 obviates the need for any kind of waiver from suspension or 
revocation. 
6. 
The new Part 5 includes USDA’s mandatory statements regarding culpable violations and 
articulates the effect of any felony conviction among any of a registrant’s key participants. 
Factual and Policy Basis 
The factual and policy issues encountered when developing these rules include: 
Changes to state and federal law constitute the factual issues that required the proposed 
changes to this rule. 
In 2018, the US Congress amended the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, the Agricultural 
Improvement Act of 2018, Pub. L. 115-334 (the “2018 Farm Bill”). The 2018 Farm Bill legalized 
the production of hemp nationwide and offered states and tribes that wanted the authority to 
regulate the production of hemp within their borders to submit individual plans to USDA pursuant 
to rules USDA would adopt. 
In October 2019, USDA issued an interim final rule, and in 2020 Colorado’s General Assembly 
again amended the Industrial Hemp Regulatory Program Act by means of SB 20-197 to comport 
to USDA’s Interim Final Rules. In January 2021, USDA issued its final rule, and the Department 
submitted its state plan to USDA-AMS in June 2021, including provisions of the rules that the 
Department would amend, consistent with its statutory authority, to comply with USDA’s final rule. 
The proposed rules represent the Commissioner’s response to revised federal and state 
requirements as well as her response to stakeholder input and involvement throughout the 
development process. 
The Department has considered comments received in conjunction with this rule-making, both 
those taken as testimony at the hearing on the rule and those received in written form on the 
proposed rule, and has revised the rule as follows. 
Commenters requested that the Department use only the term “hemp” and exclude the general 
term “cannabis” from this rule set. Based on this recommendation, the Department has added a 
new definition for “non-compliant hemp” and exchanged the term “cannabis” for either “hemp” or 
“non-compliant hemp,” dependent on the context where the terms are used.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-23 
Plant Industry Division 
 
33 
One comment requested that Rule 2.2 be changed to strike “at least 30 days” from the language 
regarding submission of R&D registration. The Department agrees that the language should be 
consistent with applications for cultivation of commercial hemp and has, therefore, stricken the 
language. 
The Department received a request to amend proposed rule 4.7.7 to accommodate the possibility 
that growers may need to transport harvested plant material off the RLA prior to receiving hemp 
sample test results. The Department agrees that producers may need to move such material for 
storage to prevent crop loss and amended 4.7.7 to reflect that possibility while including that the 
registrant must continue to maintain control and ownership of the material and must report to the 
Department the location of the storage area. 
Commenters requested that the three, consecutive years required under rule 4.8.3 be changed to 
three, consecutive growth cycles to accommodate indoor grows that may have more than one 
cycle per year. The Department has considered this request and has determined to keep the 
requirement at three, consecutive years for an equitable application of the performance-based 
sampling at this time. 
Several commenters requested that the Department modify its felony exemption language in rule 
5.2 to mirror USDA’s final rule exactly. The Department considered this option when promulgating 
this rule and decided to require that growers who had a felony conviction prior to December 20, 
2018, must also show that they had registered to grow hemp in Colorado before December 20, 
2018. The Department maintains this requirement because there is no federal database that the 
Department may access to confirm a registrant’s statement that it had been lawfully registered in 
a state other than Colorado. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 12/30/2013. 
Parts 2, 3, 9.2 emer. rules eff. 06/11/2014. 
Parts 2, 3, 9.2-9.3 eff. 09/30/2014. 
Entire rule, Part 9.4 eff. 03/30/2015. 
Entire rule, Part 9.5 eff. 03/30/2016. 
Entire rule, Part 9.6 eff. 03/30/2017. 
Parts 1.3, 1.6, 1.12, 4.7.2, 7.3, 9.7 eff. 04/15/2018. 
Entire rule, Part 9.8 eff. 03/30/2019. 
Entire rule, Part 9.9 eff. 07/30/2021. 
Rules 4.1, 9.10 emer. rules eff. 08/10/2021; expired 12/08/2021. 
Entire rule, Part 9.10 eff. 12/31/2021.
