---
id: "8_CCR_1504-8"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1504-8"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=542&fileName=8%20CCR%201504-8&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1504-8. 8 CCR 1504-8

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION 
Historical Society 
STATE HISTORICAL FUND 
8 CCR 1504-8 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
STATEMENT OF BASIS AND PURPOSE 
The State Historical Fund was established by amendment to Article XVIII, Section 9 of the Constitution of 
the State of Colorado, effective January 3, 1991. After payment of all ongoing expenses of any state 
agency administering the provisions of said Section 9, I the Constitution directs the state treasurer to 
distribute 28% of the remaining balance into the State Historical Fund. Eighty percent of that amount is 
then directed to be distributed “for the historic preservation and restoration of historical sites and 1 
municipalities throughout the state in a manner to be determined by the general assembly”. 
The Colorado General Assembly subsequently adopted The Colorado Limited Gaming Act, codified as 
CRS 12-47.1-1201, which provides that the portion of the State Historical Fund reserved for statewide 
distribution be administered by the Colorado Historical Society as a grants program for a variety of historic 
preservation purposes enumerated therein. CRS 12-47.1-1201 (4) was further amended in 1999 to 
provide that “The society shall promulgate rules for the purpose of administering the state historical fund, 
which rules may include criteria for consideration in awarding grants from such fund and standards for 
preservation which are acceptable to the society and which shall be employed by grant recipients.” CRS 
12-47.1-1201 was further amended in 2003 to clarify the types of entities eligible to receive grants, to 
clarify the types of grants that may be made for educational purposes, to permit the Society to make 
expenditures for reasonable costs incurred by the Society in fulfilling its mission, and to establish a 
limitation on the proportion of the State Historical Fund which must be reserved for grants for preservation 
purposes. 
The purpose of these rules is to define who may apply for grants from the State Historical Fund, the types 
of projects that qualify for funding, the basic application procedures, the standards to be applied to funded 
projects, and the use of the State Historical Fund by the Colorado Historical Society. 
1.  Qualifying Applicants 
1.1  Pursuant to CRS 12-47.1-1201(2), the society shall make grants primarily to governmental 
entities and to nonprofit organizations; except that the society may make grants to 
persons in the private sector so long as the person requesting the grant makes 
application through a governmental entity. 
1.2  When used in these rules, the term “governmental entity” shall have the meaning found in 
CRS 12-47.1-1201 (2)(b) as follows: the state and any state agency or institution, county, 
city and county, incorporated city or town, school district, special improvement district, 
authority, and every other kind of district, instrumentality, or political subdivision of the 
state organized pursuant to law. “Governmental entity” shall include any county, city and 
county, or incorporated city or town, governed by a home rule charter. 
1.3  When used in these rules, the term “nonprofit organization” shall mean any organization 
certified by the Internal Revenue Service as tax-exempt under Internal Revenue Code 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
2 
Section 501 (c), (d), (e), (f), (k), or Section 521 (a). IRS certification must be obtained 
prior to going under contract with the Colorado Historical Society. 
1.4  When used in these rules, the term “persons in the private sector” shall mean individuals, 
partnerships, business trusts, estates, associations, trusts, for-profit corporations, or any 
other entity not defined as a “governmental entity” or as a “nonprofit organization” above. 
1.5  In determining whether or not grants shall be awarded to each classification of “persons in 
the private sector”, the Colorado Historical Society shall consider the competitive nature 
of the program, the ability of such persons to demonstrate public support for their project 
or program, and the general public benefit of making grants to such persons. 
1.6  Persons in the private sector shall be considered to have made application “through a 
governmental entity” as used in 1.1 above if they obtain the written support of a 
governmental entity in the form adopted by the Colorado Historical Society, and submit 
that form at the time of application. 
2.  Qualifying Projects 
2.1  All grants awarded from the State Historical Fund shall be made for historic preservation 
purposes as specifically described in CRS 12-47.1-1201(1)(a) through (d). 
2.2  Grant applications to the State Historical Fund for the purpose of excavation, stabilization, 
preservation, restoration, rehabilitation, reconstruction, or acquisition of historic and 
archaeological structures, buildings, objects, sites, and districts, may be submitted only 
after the subject property has been officially designated. Official designation requires that 
the property be listed in the State or National Registers of Historic Places, or through an 
official municipal or county landmarking process adopted by ordinance or resolution. 
2.3  Exceptions to the provisions of 2.2 above may be permitted only when, at the time of 
application, the subject property is in imminent danger of being lost, demolished or 
seriously damaged, and when that property has been nominated to the State or National 
Registers of Historic Places, found eligible for listing in the State or National Registers of 
Historic Places, or has been nominated to a register of local landmarks, when such 
nomination provides at least the same level of protection as nomination to the State 
Register. 
2.4  Grants may be made for the creation and support of loan or subgrant programs for historic 
preservation purposes as specifically described in CRS 12-47.1-1201(1)(a) through (d). 
Any interest or principal payments generated by such programs shall continue to be used 
for those purposes, including costs for the administration of the program, or shall be 
returned to the State Historical Fund. 
3.  Application Procedures and Selection Criteria 
3.1  Applications for grants from the State Historical Fund shall be submitted on the forms 
adopted by the Colorado Historical Society. Such applications shall contain, at minimum, 
the name and address of the applicant, the amount requested, a scope of work, a budget, 
a description of the proposed project, a statement of community support for the project, 
and a statement of the public benefit that will result from the project. 
3.2  The criteria for the selection of grants to be awarded from the State Historical Fund shall 
include, but not be limited to, the following: 
a.  The applicant's ability to successfully complete the project;

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
3 
b.  The project's relationship to historic preservation; 
c.  The significance of the historic or archaeological structure, building, object, site or 
district; 
d.  The timing and urgency of the project; 
e.  The community's support for the project; 
f.  The ability of the project to leverage funds from other sources; and 
g.  The benefit of the project to the people of the State of Colorado. 
4.  Applicable Standards 
4.1  Pursuant to CRS 12-47.1-1202, all projects carried out with the assistance of the State 
Historical Fund involving the preservation, stabilization, restoration, rehabilitation, or 
reconstruction of designated properties shall conform to the Secretary of the Interior's 
Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties, found at 36 CFR Part 68. 
4.2  Every reasonable effort should be made for all other projects carried out with the assistance 
of the State Historical Fund to conform to the Secretary of the Interior's Standards for 
Archaeology and Historic Preservation, as found in the Federal Register, Vol. 48 No. 190, 
pages 44716 through 44742 (1983). 
4.3  References to the Secretary of the Interior's Standards shall include any amendments made 
prior to the date of the adoption of these rules. Subsequent amendments shall not be 
included, unless specifically added by amendment to these rules. 
4.4  The state publications depository and distribution center has been provided with a copy of all 
materials incorporated by reference into these rules, and such materials may be 
examined at any state publications depository library. Copies of such materials may also 
be obtained or examined by contacting the Director of the State Historical Fund at 1300 
Broadway, Denver, Colorado. 
5.  Use of the State Historical Fund by the Colorado Historical Society 
5.1  Pursuant to CRS 12-47.1-1201(5)(a)(ll), the majority of the gaming revenues deposited in 
and available for distribution from the eighty percent portion of the State Historical Fund 
administered by the Colorado Historical Society shall continue to be used for grants. 
Grants from this majority portion shall not be awarded to the Colorado Historical Society 
for its use. 
5.2  Pursuant to CRS 12-47.1-1201(5)(b), the Colorado Historical Society may, subject to annual 
appropriation, make expenditures for reasonable costs incurred by the society in 
connection with fulfilling the society's mission as a state educational institution, including 
capital construction and controlled maintenance expenditures relating to properties 
owned, managed, or used by the society. The terms “capital construction” and “controlled 
maintenance” shall have their meanings as found in CRS 24-30-1301. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History
