---
id: "8_CCR_1507-33"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1507-33"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=6015&fileName=8%20CCR%201507-33&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1507-33. 8 CCR 1507-33

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY 
Colorado Bureau of Investigation 
RULES AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE MEDINA ALERT PROGRAM 
8 CCR 1507-33 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Authority to Adopt Rules and Regulations 
The Executive Director of the Colorado Department of Public Safety is mandated to promulgate rules and 
regulations regarding the Medina Alert Program (MAP) pursuant to 24-33.5-416.7, C.R.S. 
Definitions 
The definitions provided in section 24-33.5-416.7(2) shall apply to these rules and regulations. The 
following definitions shall also apply. 
“Notification Period”- means the time the alert will be active until the suspect(s) is apprehended or the 
requesting agency provides information that the alert is no longer necessary and should be canceled. 
“Serious Bodily Injury”– has the same meaning as defined in section 42-4-1601(4)(b), C.R.S., namely: 
injury that involves, either at the time of the actual injury or at a later time, a substantial risk of death, a 
substantial risk of serious permanent disfigurement, or a substantial risk of protracted loss or impairment 
of the function of any part or organ of the body, or breaks, fractures, or burns of the second or third 
degree. 
“Hit And Run”– means an incident when the driver of a motor vehicle involved in an accident fails to stop 
at the scene of the accident as required by section 42-4-1601, C.R.S. 
“Medina Alert Broadcast”– means a public broadcast notification issued pursuant to these rules 
containing information regarding the imminent threat to the safety of the public when a person kills or 
inflicts a serious bodily injury upon a person during a motor vehicle accident and flees the scene. 
Applicability 
These Rules and Regulations shall apply to the Colorado Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and law 
enforcement agencies statewide. 
Rules / Regulations / Procedures 
CBI-MAP 1 
A. 
During the course of their investigation, and upon verifying that a motor vehicle accident has 
occurred that involves a death or serious bodily injury and the suspect or suspects have fled the 
scene of the offense, a local law enforcement agency, operating under their individual policy and 
procedures, may notify the CBI at the main number and request that the information be conveyed 
to the bureau for a Medina Alert Broadcast. 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-33 
Colorado Bureau of Investigation 
 
2 
CBI-MAP 2 
A. 
The CBI will verify the accuracy of the information based on personal contact with a 
representative from the law enforcement agency. The verification of information provided by the 
law enforcement agency will include, but is not limited to: 
1. 
Verifying the identity of the law enforcement agency and the reporting law enforcement 
official; 
2. 
Verifying all appropriate information that the reporting law enforcement agency has that 
may assist in the apprehension of the suspect or suspects; 
3. 
Verifying that the information being reported meets the definition of “Hit and Run” and 
“Serious Bodily Injury” as defined in Colorado statute and this rule; 
4. 
Verifying law enforcement has sufficient additional information concerning the suspect or 
the suspect’s vehicle, including but not limited to; 
• 
A complete license plate number of the suspect’s vehicle; 
• 
A partial license plate number and the make, style, and color of the suspect’s 
vehicle; and/or 
• 
The identity of the Suspect. 
CBI-MAP 3 
A. 
The Medina Alert Broadcast may contain, but is not limited to, the following information: 
1. 
All appropriate information that the reporting law enforcement agency has that may assist 
in the apprehension of the suspect(s); 
2. 
A statement instructing anyone with information related to the hit and run accident to 
contact his or her local law enforcement agency; 
3. 
A warning that the suspect(s) are dangerous and that members of the public should not 
attempt to apprehend the suspect(s) themselves. 
CBI-MAP 4 
A. 
The Medina Alert Broadcast may be rebroadcast to the public as often as possible, but it is 
recommended to rebroadcast every 15 minutes the first 2 hours, then every 30 minutes 
thereafter. The update of information may be at the request of state or local law enforcement, as 
additional information becomes available, or as investigation circumstances change. This 
information is provided to the CBI and forwarded to the broadcasters. 
B. 
The cancellation of the Medina Alert Broadcast shall be the responsibility of the CBI. The 
requesting law enforcement agency must contact the CBI designee to deactivate the Medina Alert 
Broadcast once the suspect or suspects have been apprehended or at the end of the determined 
notification period. 
C. 
The CBI will notify the participating radio stations, television stations, and other media outlets in 
Colorado that the suspect or suspects have been apprehended or at the end of the determined 
notification period, whichever comes first.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-33 
Colorado Bureau of Investigation 
 
3 
D. 
A list of broadcasters receiving the alert will be maintained by the CBI. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 12/30/2014.
