---
id: "8_CCR_1204-10"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1204-10"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=11867&fileName=8%20CCR%201204-10&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1204-10. 8 CCR 1204-10

1 
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 
Markets Division 
RULES PERTAINING TO THE SMALL FOOD BUSINESS RECOVERY AND RESILIENCY TAX 
CREDIT 
8 CCR 1204-10 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
1. 
Definitions 
1.1. 
“Amount Certain Spent by the Member of the Consortium on Completing its Duties and 
Responsibilities of the Consortium” or “Amount Certain” means the amount spent on pallet, pallet 
break, distribution, and delivery fees that is eligible for a subsidy from the Consortium but is not 
otherwise covered by the Consortium. 
1.2. 
“Community Food Access Program (CFA Program or Program)” means the program created in 
section 35-1-117, C.R.S., to improve access to and lower prices for healthy foods in low-income 
and underserved areas of the state. 
1.3. 
“Community Food Consortium (Consortium)” means the community food consortium created in 
section 35-1-117(8)(a), C.R.S. 
1.4. 
“Department” or “CDA” means the Colorado Department of Agriculture created in section 35-1-
103, C.R.S. 
1.5. 
“Duties and Responsibilities” means the duties and responsibilities of the members of the 
consortium pursuant to section 35-1-117(2)(a), C.R.S. 
1.6. 
“Farm Direct Operation” means a farm or ranch that produces and sells Colorado grown or raised 
grocery products directly to consumers that serves as a critical business offering food for 
purchase in a federal, state, or locally defined low income, low access area. 
1.7. 
“Farmers Market” means a public and recurring assembly of farmers and ranchers or their 
representative selling the food that they produced directly to consumers in a federal, state, or 
locally defined low income, low access area. 
1.8. 
“Grant Award” means a contractual award of funds through the Small Food Business Recovery 
and Resilience Grant Program. 
1.9. 
“Grant Program” or “CFA Grant Program” means the Small Food Business Recovery and 
Resilience Grant Program created in section 35-1-117(3)(a), C.R.S. 
1.10. 
“Healthy Foods” means fresh, frozen or minimally processed produce, locally grown or raised 
products, other food items that may or may not normally be present in a particular location but 
that serve the culinary and health needs of a particular population, nutrient dense proteins and 
grains, other foods meeting a local definition of “healthy” and that provide nutritional value for 
human health. “Healthy Foods” does not include sugar sweetened beverages, candy, alcoholic 
beverages, tobacco, hot and ready to eat or prepared foods, or non-food products. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1204-10 
Markets Division 
 
2 
1.11. 
“Limited Supermarket Access Area” means an area where households have inadequate and 
inequitable access to supermarkets, based on income, distance to existing stores, and car 
ownership rates. 
1.12. 
“Member of the Consortium” means any member of the community food consortium for small food 
retailers and Colorado-owned and Colorado-operated farms created in section 35-1-117(2)(a), 
C.R.S. 
1.13. 
“Purchase” means to acquire for consideration and take possession of small food business 
recovery and resilience grant program equipment, whether the purchaser paid for the items in a 
lump sum, by means of financing, or through a “lease-to-own” agreement. 
1.14. 
“Purchase Price” means the amount actually paid by the purchaser for the small food business 
recovery and resilience grant program equipment, including charges for sales tax and freight, but 
not including any charges for assembly, installation, other construction services, or permit fees. 
1.15. 
“Purchaser” means a small food retailer or small family farm that purchases small food business 
recovery and resilience grant program equipment. 
1.16. 
“Rural” means any population, housing, or territory not in an urban area as defined in this rule. 
1.17. 
“Small Family Farm” has the same meaning as set forth in section 35-1-117(8)(d), C.R.S. 
1.18. 
“Small food business recovery and resilience grant program equipment” or “Equipment” means 
the items listed in section 35-1-117(3)(a)(II) and(3)(a)(IV), C.R.S. 
1.19. 
“Small Food Retailer” has the same meaning as set forth in section 35-1-117(8)(e), C.R.S. 
1.20. 
“SNAP” means the supplemental nutrition assistance program established in part 3 of article 2 of 
title 26 of the Colorado Revised Statutes. 
1.21. 
“Urban” means an area that is identified in the 2020 “Census Qualifying Urban Areas and Final 
Criteria Clarifications,” adopted by reference herein (87 Federal Register Vol. 87, No. 249, 80114; 
effective December 29, 2022). Material incorporated by reference does not include any later 
amendments or editions of the incorporated material. Copies of material incorporated by 
reference are available for public inspection during regular business hours and may be obtained 
at a reasonable charge or examined by contacting the Markets Division, Colorado Department of 
Agriculture, 305 Interlocken Parkway, Broomfield, CO 80021. Further, the incorporated material 
may be examined at no cost on the Internet at: 
https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2022/12/29/2022-28286/2020-census-qualifying-
urban-areas-and-final-criteria-clarifications. 
1.22. 
“WIC” has the meaning set forth in section 35-1-117(8)(g), C.R.S. 
2. 
Tax Credit Certificates Annual Allocation 
2.1. 
The Department may issue up to $10 million annually in Tax Credits Certificates commencing on 
or after January 1, 2024, but before January 1, 2031, in accordance with section 39-22-549 
(3)(a), C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1204-10 
Markets Division 
 
3 
2.2. 
At least once during each application period, the Department will post on the Community Food 
Access Program website, www.ag.colorado.gov/CFA, the total aggregate amount of Tax Credit 
Certificates issued for each calendar year and the total amount of aggregate tax credit 
applications currently under review. Applicants are encouraged to check the availability of tax 
credits for each calendar year frequently and before incurring any Amounts Certain or expenses 
for Equipment. 
3. 
Tax Credit Letter of Eligibility — Submission, Review, and Issuance 
3.1. 
A Member of the Consortium or a Purchaser may submit an application to the Department for a 
letter of eligibility for a tax credit certificate to determine whether any proposed expense would 
qualify before incurring that expense. 
3.2. 
The application must include a certification that the applicant is either: 
3.2.1. 
a Purchaser who is a small food retailer or small family farm that will purchase small food 
business recovery and resilience grant program equipment; or 
3.2.2. 
a Member of the Consortium that will spend an Amount Certain on completing its duties 
and responsibilities. 
3.3. 
The application must also include detailed information regarding: 
3.3.1. 
the Purchase Price that would be incurred by a Purchaser and the date on which the 
purchase would be made, including any portion covered by a Grant Award received 
through the Small Food Business Recovery Resilience Grant Program or other grant, 
loan, or funding source; and 
3.3.2. 
the percentage of the equipment’s use that is related to advancing the goals of the 
Community Food Access program; or 
3.3.3. 
an itemized total of the Amount Certain that a Member of the Consortium would spend on 
completing its Duties and Responsibilities, minus any amount already provided by the 
Consortium, and the date or dates on which the Member of the Consortium would spend 
the amounts. 
3.4. 
Interested individuals will find applications for a Letter of Eligibility on the Community Food 
Access Program website at www.ag.colorado.gov/CFA. 
3.5. 
A Letter of Eligibility does not guarantee that an applicant for a Tax Credit Certificate will receive 
a Tax Credit Certificate. Applicants must submit a full application for a tax-credit certificate 
separately, pursuant to Part 4 of this rule, for the Department’s review and consideration after the 
applicant has incurred the proposed expense. 
3.6. 
An applicant must submit a complete Letter of Eligibility application and provide all required 
supporting documentation before the Department may determine if the Duties and 
Responsibilities or Equipment purchased would qualify for a tax credit certificate if purchased. 
The Department will notify applicants in writing if their application is incomplete.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1204-10 
Markets Division 
 
4 
3.7. 
The Department will review the Letter of Eligibility application and issue a decision in writing to 
approve, deny, or seek additional clarification from the applicant. If the Department requests 
additional clarification or documentation, the applicant will have 7 business days to provide the 
requested information, after which the Letter of Eligibility application will be deemed abandoned 
by the applicant and denied. Applicants can request an extension of this deadline in writing or 
submit a revised application for a Letter of Eligibility at a later date. Any such request must be 
made in writing (by e-mail or post) and received by the Department no later than three business 
days before the deadline to provide the requested information. 
3.8. 
Decisions based on statutory requirements are not appealable. 
4. 
Tax Credit Certificate Application – Submission, Review, and Issuance 
4.1. 
The Department will post the application for a Tax Credit Certificate on the Community Food 
Access Program website: www.ag.colorado.gov/CFA. 
4.2. 
There will be three application periods in each calendar year, as determined by the Department 
and announced on the Department’s website: ag.colorado.gov/CFA upon the effective date of this 
rule and thereafter no later than January 1 of each calendar year. 
4.3. 
This section 4.3 sets forth the order in which the Department will issue Tax Credit Certificates 
within each application period. 
4.3.1. 
Group 1: Members of the Consortium on the Amount Certain Spent by a Member of the 
Consortium on completing its Duties and Responsibilities when that amount is eligible for 
a subsidy from the Consortium but is not otherwise covered by the Consortium. 
4.3.2. 
Group 2: Purchasers that have not received any other Small Food Business Recovery 
and Resilience tax credits as a result of purchasing small food business recovery and 
resilience grant program equipment. 
4.3.2.1. When reviewing applications for this Group 2, the Department will order eligible 
expenses in accordance with the order of priority identified in section 7; and 
4.3.2.2. The Department will further sub-order those prioritized expenses in a manner 
that prioritizes those applicants who can demonstrate the greatest improvement 
to access to and lower prices for healthy foods in low-income area underserved 
areas of the state, consistent with the methods set forth in Section 5 below to 
demonstrate improvement to access and lower prices for healthy foods in low-
income and underserved areas of the state; 
4.3.3. 
Group 3: Purchasers that have not yet received a Small Food Business Recovery and 
Resilience tax credit as a result of purchasing small food business recovery and 
resilience grant program equipment in the calendar year for which the tax credit is 
sought. 
4.3.3.1. When reviewing applications for this Group 3, the Department will order eligible 
expenses in accordance with the order of priority identified in section 7; and 
4.3.3.2. The Department will further sub-order those prioritized expenses in a manner 
that prioritizes those applicants who can demonstrate the greatest improvement 
to access to and lower prices for healthy foods in low-income and underserved 
areas of the state, consistent with the methods set forth in Section 5 below to 
demonstrate improvements to access and lower prices for healthy foods in low-
income and underserved areas of the state;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1204-10 
Markets Division 
 
5 
4.3.4. 
Group 4: All other applications. 
4.3.4.1. When reviewing applications for this Group 4, the Department will order eligible 
expenses in accordance with the order of priority identified in section 7; and 
4.3.4.2. The Department will further sub-order those prioritized expenses in a matter that 
prioritizes those applicants who can demonstrate the greatest improvement to 
access to and lower prices for healthy foods in low-income and underserved 
areas of the state, consistent with the methods, set forth in section 5 below, to 
demonstrate improvement to access and lower prices for healthy foods in low-
income and underserved areas of the state. 
4.3.5. 
Group 5: Any applicant that previously received a Small Food Business Recovery and 
Resilience Tax Credit Certificate but mis-used Equipment in a way that did not conform to 
the applicant’s intent as provided in its application or performed Duties and 
Responsibilities of the Consortium in a manner that did not conform to the actual Duties 
and Responsibilities of the Consortium. 
4.4. 
Within each category listed in 4.3, applications will be reviewed in the order received, based on 
the date and time the Department receives a complete application. 
4.5. 
An applicant must submit a complete Tax Credit Certificate application and provide all required 
supporting documentation before the application deadline. After the application deadline, the 
Department will notify applicants in writing if their application is incomplete. 
4.5.1. 
An applicant will have 7 business days from the day the Department notifies the applicant 
that the applicant’s application is incomplete to correct any deficiencies, after which the 
Department will deny the application in full. An applicant must then resubmit the 
applicant’s application with complete documentation during the next application cycle, 
which will then be reviewed based on the new date and time received by the Department. 
4.6. 
To receive a Tax Credit Certificate, an applicant must provide supporting documentation of the 
following: 
4.6.1. 
The income tax year in which the applicant will claim a tax credit; and 
4.6.2. 
The price and date of any equipment purchased, including any portion covered by a 
Grant Award, received through the Small Food Business Recovery Resilience Grant 
Program, as well as proof of payment; or 
4.6.3. 
An itemized total and date or dates of purchase of any amount spent by a Member of the 
Consortium on pallet, pallet break, distribution, or delivery fees that are not otherwise 
covered by the Consortium. 
4.6.3.1. Costs related to pallet, pallet break, distribution and delivery fees must be verified 
with supporting documentation, such as an itemized invoice, price sheet, or 
contract with a distributor, as well as proof that each invoice was paid. 
4.7. 
If applicable, an applicant may submit the applicant’s Letter of Eligibility along with a Tax Credit 
Certificate application. 
4.8. 
The Department will inform an applicant of the Department’s decision to approve or deny a Tax 
Credit Certificate by email within 90 calendar days from the date a completed application is 
received.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1204-10 
Markets Division 
 
6 
4.9. 
The Department will deny applications for a Tax Credit Certificate in any tax year in which the 
Department has committed ten million dollars. An eligible business may only receive a tax credit 
in the year in which the applicant incurred the eligible expense. 
4.10. 
Upon approval, the Department will issue a Tax Credit Certificate with a designated reference 
number, which the applicant must attach to the applicant’s state tax filing return for the applicable 
tax year. An applicant is responsible for submitting all necessary documents to the Colorado 
Department of Revenue to receive a tax credit. Tax Credit Certificates are not transferable. 
4.11. 
Decisions based on statutory requirements are not appealable. 
4.12. 
The deadline to submit an application for a previous income tax year is December 31 of the 
subsequent income tax year, e.g., December 31, 2025, for eligible expenses incurred during the 
2024 income tax year. 
5. 
An applicant may demonstrate improvement to access and lower prices for healthy foods 
in low-income and underserved areas of the state by: 
5.1. 
Demonstrating that the geographical area the applicant serves either: 
5.1.1. 
Has no access to a grocery store at less than half-mile intervals in an urban area; or 
5.1.2. 
Has no access to a grocery store at less than 10 miles in a rural area and is within a 
United States census tract whose poverty rate is 20 percent or greater; and either 
5.1.3. 
Is within a United States census tract where the median family income is less than or 
equal to 80 percent of Colorado’s state-wide median family income; or 
5.1.4. 
Is within a United States census tract in a metropolitan area where the median family 
income is less than or equal to 80 percent of that metropolitan area’s median family 
income. 
5.2. 
Demonstrating whether the applicant operates or serves areas located in a census tract adjacent 
to a census tract meeting the above criteria with median family income less than or equal to 120 
percent of area median family income; 
5.3. 
Demonstrating whether the applicant operates or serves areas located in a Limited Supermarket 
Access Area; 
5.4. 
Demonstrating whether the applicant operates or serves an area operated by a Tribal 
government or on Tribal Lands; or 
5.5. 
Providing a narrative explanation to establish any other factors that the applicant believes should 
qualify as operating or serving in a low-income, low-access community, including by use of locally 
aggregated data. 
6. 
Tax Credit Certification Requirements 
6.1. 
At the time of application for a tax credit, a Purchaser or Member of the Consortium must certify 
that the applicant is either: 
6.1.1. 
A Member of the Consortium that spent an Amount Certain on completing its duties and 
responsibilities; or 
6.1.2. 
A Purchaser who is a small food retailer or small family farm that purchased Equipment.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1204-10 
Markets Division 
 
7 
7. 
Eligible and non-eligible costly small food business recovery and resilience grant program 
equipment purchases include: 
7.1. 
Eligible Equipment Expenses used primarily to advance the sale of healthy food in low income 
and underserved areas of the state by small food retailers, in Order of Priority: 
7.1.1. 
Cold Storage: Refrigeration and freezer units (consumer-facing or storage); 
7.1.2. 
New POS systems or upgrades to existing POS systems, including hardware, monitors, 
and printers that are directly related to implementing or improving SNAP, WIC, or other 
food incentive programs; 
7.1.3. 
Display shelving and display cases; calibrated and certified produce scales, food 
preservation equipment needed to extend the availability of healthy food for customers 
beyond the local harvest or slaughter calendar; dry storage containers; deli slicers and 
meat grinders for fresh meat; 
7.1.4. 
Power generators ensuring the proper temperature control of healthy food in areas that 
lose power for more than four hours at least once per year; 
7.1.5. 
Refrigerated or commercial delivery vehicles and trailers; 
7.1.6. 
Equipment the Commissioner determines will contribute to the state’s effort to improve 
access to and lower prices for healthy foods in low-income and underserved areas of the 
state by supporting small food retailers and small family farms; 
7.1.7. 
Tractors, tractor implements, greenhouses, tunnels, solar equipment, poultry housing, 
farmers market tents, storage equipment, produce washing equipment, costly irrigation 
equipment, product sorting equipment, produce processing equipment or harvesters. 
7.2. 
Non-Eligible Equipment Purchases: 
7.2.1. 
Storage or retail display equipment for alcoholic beverages, soft drinks, sports and 
energy drinks or cannabis products; 
7.2.2. 
Vending machines that do not offer healthy food; 
7.2.3. 
Storage or equipment for prepared foods. 
8. 
General Provisions 
8.1. 
Applicants are responsible for complying with any applicable local, state, or federal food safety 
standards and for operating within the scope of any necessary license, registration, or permit. 
Applicants are responsible for obtaining any necessary local, state, or federal regulatory review 
for any improvements made to any existing facilities. 
8.2. 
A Purchaser of Equipment that receives a Tax Credit Certificate understands and agrees that the 
Department may conduct a site inspection to confirm that the Purchaser’s use of the Equipment 
conforms to the Purchaser’s intent, as provided in its application. 
9. 
Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority, and Purpose 
9.1 
Adopted January 17, 2024; Effective March 16, 2024

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1204-10 
Markets Division 
 
8 
The Commissioner of Agriculture adopts these rules pursuant to the authority granted the Department of 
Agriculture at 39-22-549(4)(a), (5)(e), and (9), C.R.S. 
HB 23-1008, created a tax credit to induce designated tax-payer behavior, specifically: purchasing and 
use of small food business recovery and resilience grant program equipment and increasing the activities 
of the community food consortium for small food retailers and Colorado-owned and Colorado-operated 
farms. This tax credit is designed to contribute to the state’s efforts to improve access to and lower prices 
for healthy foods in low-income and underserved areas of the state by supporting small food retailers and 
small family farms. See 3-22-549(1)(a)(I) and (1)(a)(II), C.R.S. 
These rules establish the deadlines both for applications for letters of eligibility and for applications for tax 
credit certificates. A letter of eligibility permits those who may incur costs to determine, in advance, 
whether such costs would qualify for a tax credit. A tax-credit certificate is an approval issued by the 
Department after any eligible equipment purchase has been made and which may be applied by the 
applicant as a credit against that person’s income taxes for the tax year in which the purchase was made. 
Section 39-22-549(4)(a) and (5)(a), C.R.S. 
These rules identify the order in which the Department will issue tax credits, identifying an order that will 
permit the Department to organize its awards based on factors that prioritize Duties and Responsibilities 
of Consortium members; rural- over urban-related expenses; applicants who have not received any 
previous tax credits; and applicants who can demonstrate the greatest improvement to and lower prices 
for healthy foods in low-income and underserved areas of the state, consistent with the state’s efforts to 
improve access to and lower prices for healthy foods in low-income and underserved areas of the state 
by supporting small food retailers and small family farms. 
Finally, these rules provide general direction to applicants for both letters of eligibility and tax credit 
certificates related to deadlines, required documentation, and methods of demonstrating effects on 
improving lower prices for healthy foods in low-income and underserved areas of the state. 
In its final review, the Department noticed that the tenses of the verb conjugations in parts 3.1.1 and 3.1.2 
were inconsistent with the intent of part 3. The Department, therefore, amended the verb conjugation to 
harmonize it with the intent of part 3 overall. 
9.2 
Adopted January 15, 2025; Effective March 17, 2025 
The Commissioner of Agriculture adopts these rules pursuant to the authority granted the Department of 
Agriculture at 39-22-549(4)(a), (5)(a) and (c), and (9), C.R.S. 
These changes to the rule serve to clarify the focus of the program as to better align with the intent of the 
legislation, reduce the possibility of mis-use of tax credits, and improve administrative processes and 
increase efficiency. 
Specifically, these changes refine critical definitions related to eligible businesses, healthy foods, low 
income and underserved areas of the state, and what it means to purchase equipment. They clarify 
usage requirements for eligible equipment and change the order in which the department will review and 
award applications to better align with the intent of this program as described in legislation. Some general 
categories of equipment have been removed or clarified to reduce the risk of awarding tax credits for 
purchases that do not fully align with the intent of the legislation. General categories of equipment were 
more specifically described to reduce confusion. Based on stakeholder feedback, power generators were 
added as an explicitly eligible piece of equipment.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1204-10 
Markets Division 
 
9 
Additionally, these changes reduce the number of days applicants have to complete an incomplete 
submitted application, which will reduce complications related to filing taxes and receiving the credit and 
reduce the amount of time all applicants will need to wait to file their taxes. The changes also give more 
flexibility for the department to publish the remaining amount of funds when figures are most accurate, 
instead of once per month. 
Post publication, three additional changes were proposed to clarify definitions and improve administrative 
processes. The first change is a clarification of the term “purchase” to better align with how the term is 
used in the rule. The second change is to the term “purchase price” to ensure this definition aligns with 
the definition in statute. The third change is the addition of section 4.12 to allow eligible businesses to 
apply for a tax credit in the year after the year it was purchased. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 03/16/2024. 
Rules 1-5, 7, 9.2 eff. 03/17/2025.
