---
id: "8_CCR_1306-4"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1306-4"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=8782&fileName=8%20CCR%201306-4&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1306-4. 8 CCR 1306-4

Code of Colorado Regulations 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF LOCAL AFFAIRS 
Division of Local Government 
PEACE OFFICER MENTAL HEALTH SUPPORT GRANT REPORTING REQUIREMENTS  
 C.R.S 24-32-3501 
8 CCR 1306-4 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
All grant recipients must report per the requirements of the grant contract with the department created in 
order to receive funds. This contract will require, at least, annual reporting to the department on grant 
spending to include, at a minimum, expense type, amount, date and any funds returned during the 
previous state fiscal year. 
4.5. 
Quarterly Pay Request and Status Reports. Beginning 30 days after the end of the first quarter 
following execution of this Grant and for each quarter thereafter until termination of this Grant, 
Grantee shall submit Pay Requests and Status Reports using a form provided by the State. The 
State shall pay the Grantee for actual expenditures made in the performance of this Grant based 
on the submission of statements in the format prescribed by the State. The Grantee shall submit 
Pay Requests setting forth a detailed description and provide documentation of the amounts and 
types of reimbursable expenses. Pay Requests and Status Reports are due within 30 days of the 
end of the quarter but may be submitted more frequently at the discretion of the Grantee. 
4.5.1. 
For quarters in which there are no expenditures to reimburse, Grantee shall indicate zero 
(0) requested in the Pay Request and describe the status of the Work in the Status 
Report. The report will contain an update of expenditure of funds by budget line as per 
§6.2 of this Exhibit B Scope of Project as well as a projection of all Work expected to be 
accomplished in the following quarter, including an estimate of Grant Funds to be 
expended. 
4.5.2. 
Specific submittal dates. 
 
Quarter 
Year 
Due Date 
Pay Request Due Status Report Due 
3rd (Jul-Sep) 
2019 
October 31, 2019 
Yes 
Yes 
4th (Oct-Dec) 
2019 
January 31, 2020 
Yes 
Yes 
1st (Jan-Mar) 
2020 
April 30, 2020 
Yes 
Yes 
2nd (Apr-Jun) 
2020 
July 31, 2020 
Yes 
Yes 
3rd (Jul-Sep) 
2020 
October 31, 2020 
Yes 
Yes 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 06/14/2020. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado
