---
id: "8_CCR_1203-16"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1203-16"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=6681&fileName=8%20CCR%201203-16&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1203-16. 8 CCR 1203-16

1 
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 
Plant Industry Division 
QUARANTINE AGAINST IMPORTATION OF SYMPTOMLESS CARRIERS OF PEACH MOSAIC INTO 
MESA COUNTY COLORADO - Repealed eff. 03/30/2016 
6 CCR 1203-16 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Statement of Basis and Purpose 
Adopted February 10, 2015-Effective March 30, 2016 
Statutory Authority 
These amendments to the rules are proposed for adoption by the Commissioner of the Colorado 
Department of Agriculture pursuant to his authority under § 35-4-110 C.R.S of the Colorado Pest Control 
Act.  
Purpose 
The purpose of this permanent rule amendment is to repeal the Rules currently published at 8 CCR 1203-
16 in their entirety.  
Factual and Policy Issues 
1. 
The California Department of Food and Agriculture eliminated their quarantine against the peach 
mosaic virus in 2015. This prompted the Colorado Department of Agriculture staff to request a 
review of this Rule be conducted by Colorado State University. Dr. Jane Stewart reviewed current 
scientific literature and California’s decision to cease their quarantine against peach mosaic virus. 
2. 
Peach mosaic is a low risk pathogen to Colorado peaches and therefore cessation of quarantine 
will not increase the threat of peach mosaic in Colorado due to the following factors: 
A. 
Pathologists from the University of California, Davis, University of California Riverside 
and Colorado State University have not observed the peach mosaic in orchards for over 
50 years in their respective states. In Colorado, three infected trees were recovered in 
1991, but no trees have been identified since that time. 
B. 
The mite, Eriophyes insidiosus (peach bud mite) is not an efficient vector. A study 
conducted in 1998 found that a single mite had at most a peach mosaic transmission rate 
of 17% (gispert et al. 1998, Plant Disease). 
C. 
Prunus certification is completed in California and likewise in Colorado. Therefore, 
checks for peach mosaic could be conducted during the Prunus certification process. 
Published polymerase chain reaction primers currently exist for peach mosaic, so testing 
either plant material or the vector could be amended to the current Prunus certification 
process. 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-16 
Plant Industry Division 
 
2 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule repealed eff. 03/30/2016.
