---
id: "8_CCR_1202-6"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1202-6"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=10543&fileName=8%20CCR%201202-6&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1202-6. 8 CCR 1202-6

1 
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
RULES FOR COMMERCIAL FEED UNDER THE COLORADO FEED LAW, SECTIONS 35-60-101 
THROUGH 115, C.R.S. 
8 CCR 1202-6 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Part 1. Legal Authority 
Sections 35-60-102(2) and 35-60-109(1), C.R.S. 
Part 2. Definitions and Terms 
2.1. 
The Official Publication of the Association of American Feed Control Officials, Inc. shall mean the 
2022 Official Publication of the Association of American Feed Control Officials, Inc. (“AAFCO”), 
effective January 1, 2023. This rule incorporates by reference the AAFCO standards and 
guidelines. A copy of the Official Publication of the Association of American Feed Control 
Officials, Inc. shall be kept on file at the Department of Agriculture, located at 305 Interlocken 
Parkway, Broomfield, Colorado 80021, and shall be open to public inspection, and available for 
copying, during normal business hours. A copy of the official publication shall also be kept at the 
AAFCO Headquarters Office, located at 1800 S. Oak Street, Suite 100, Champaign, IL 61820-
6974 and is available online at https://www.aafco.org/Publications. This, and any other material 
that is incorporated by reference, may be examined at any state publications depository library. 
2.2. 
These Rules incorporate the Official Feed Terms as published in the 2022 Official Publication of 
AAFCO, incorporated herein by reference (later amendments not included), except as the 
Commissioner designates otherwise in specific cases. 
2.3. 
The following commodities are hereby declared exempt from the definition of commercial feed, 
under the provisions of Section 35-60-102(2), C.R.S., of the Colorado Feed Law, when unground 
and when not mixed or intermixed with other materials: raw meat, individual chemical 
compounds, hay, loose salt, straw, stover, silage, cobs, husks, and hulls; provided that these 
commodities are not adulterated within the meaning of Section 35-60-107, C.R.S., of the 
Colorado Feed Law. The exemption from the definition of commercial feed does not apply to an 
otherwise exempted commodity that bears a label listing nutritional claims or guarantees. 
Part 3. Label Format 
3.1. 
Commercial feed, other than customer-formula feed, shall be labeled with the information 
prescribed in this Part on the principal display panel of the product and in the following format: 
3.1.1. 
Product name and brand name, if any, as stipulated in Part 4.1.1. 
3.1.2. 
If a drug is used, label as stipulated in Part 4.1.2. 
3.1.3. 
Purpose Statement as stipulated in Part 4.1.3. 
3.1.4. 
Guaranteed analysis as stipulated in Part 4.1.4. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
2 
3.1.5. 
Feed ingredients as stipulated in Part 4.1.5. 
3.1.6. 
Directions for use and precautionary statements as stipulated in Part 4.1.6. 
3.1.7. 
Name and principal mailing address of the manufacturer or person responsible for 
distributing the feed as stipulated Part 4.1.7. 
3.1.8. 
Quantity Statement. 
3.1.9. 
The date of manufacture, processing, packaging, or repackaging or a code that permits 
the determination of the date. 
3.2. 
The information required in Parts 3.1.1 through 3.1.5, 3.1.7 and 3.1.8 must appear in its entirety 
on one side of the label or on one side of the container. 
3.3. 
The information required by Part 3.1.6 shall be displayed in a prominent place on the label or 
container but not necessarily on the same side as the above information. When the information 
required by Part 3.1.6 is placed on a different side of the label or container, it must be referenced 
on the front side with a statement such as “See back of label for directions for use.” None of the 
information required by Part 3 shall be subordinated or obscured by other statements or designs. 
3.4. 
Customer-formula feed shall be accompanied with the information prescribed in this Part using 
labels, invoice, delivery ticket, or other shipping document bearing the following information. 
3.4.1. 
The name and address of the manufacturer. 
3.4.2. 
The name and address of the purchaser. 
3.4.3. 
The date of sale or delivery. 
3.4.4. 
The customer-formula feed name and brand name if any. 
3.4.5. 
The product name and net quantity of each registered commercial feed and each other 
ingredient used in the mixture. 
3.4.6. 
The direction for use and precautionary statements as required by Parts 8 and 9. 
3.4.7. 
If a drug containing product is used: 
3.4.7.1. The purpose of the medication (claim statement). 
3.4.7.2. The established name of each active drug ingredient and the level of each drug 
used in the final mixture expressed in accordance with Part 5.4. 
Part 4. Label Information. 
4.1. 
Commercial feed, other than customer-formula feed, shall be labeled with the information 
prescribed in this section. 
4.1.1. 
Product name and brand name if any. 
4.1.1.1. The brand or product name must be appropriate for the intended use of the feed 
and must not be misleading. If the name indicates the feed is made for a specific 
use, the character of the feed must conform therewith. A commercial feed for a 
particular animal class, must be suitable for that purpose.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
3 
4.1.1.2. Commercial, registered brand or trade names are not permitted in guarantees or 
ingredient listings and only in the product name of feeds produced by or for the 
firm holding the rights to such a name. 
4.1.1.3. The name of a commercial feed shall not be derived from one or more 
ingredients of a mixture to the exclusion of other ingredients and shall not be one 
representing any components of a mixture unless all components are included in 
the name: Provided, that if any ingredient or combination of ingredients is 
intended to impart a distinctive characteristic to the product which is of 
significance to the purchaser, the name of that ingredient or combination of 
ingredients may be used as a part of the brand name or product name if the 
ingredients or combination of ingredients is quantitatively guaranteed in the 
guaranteed analysis, and the brand or product name is not otherwise false or 
misleading. 
4.1.1.4. The word “protein” shall not be permitted in the product name of a feed that 
contains added non-protein nitrogen. 
4.1.1.5. When the name carries a percentage value, it shall be understood to signify 
protein and/or equivalent protein content only, even though it may not explicitly 
modify the percentage with the word “protein”: Provided, that other percentage 
values may be permitted if they are followed by the proper description and 
conform to good labeling practice. Digital numbers shall not be used in such a 
manner as to be misleading or confusing to the customer. 
4.1.1.6. Single ingredient feeds shall have a product name in accordance with the 
designated definition of feed ingredients as recognized by AAFCO unless the 
Commissioner designates otherwise. 
4.1.1.7. The word “vitamin”, or a contraction thereof, or any word suggesting vitamin can 
be used only in the name of a feed which is represented to be a vitamin 
supplement, and which is labeled with the minimum content of each vitamin 
declared, as specified in Part 5.3 . 
4.1.1.8. The term “mineralized” shall not be used in the name of a feed except for 
“TRACE MINERALIZED SALT”. When so used, the product must contain 
significant amounts of trace minerals which are recognized as essential for 
animal nutrition. 
4.1.1.9. The term “meat” and “meat by-products” shall be qualified to designate the 
animal from which the meat and meat by-products is derived unless the meat 
and meat by-products are made from cattle, swine, sheep and goats. 
4.1.2. 
If a drug is used: 
4.1.2.1. The word “medicated” shall appear directly following and below the product name 
in type size, no smaller than one-half the type size of the product name. 
4.1.2.2. Purpose statement as required in Part 4.1.3. 
4.1.2.3. The purpose of medication (claim statement). 
4.1.2.4. An active ingredient statement listing the active drug ingredients by their 
established name and the amounts in accordance with Part 5.4.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
4 
4.1.3. 
Purpose Statement 
4.1.3.1. The statement of purpose shall contain the specific species and animal class(es) 
for which the feed is intended as defined in Part 4.1.4. 
4.1.3.2. The manufacturer shall have flexibility in describing in more specific and common 
language the defined animal class, species and purpose while being consistent 
with the category of animal class defined in Part 4.1.4 which may include, but is 
not limited to weight range(s), sex, or ages of the animal(s) for which the feed is 
manufactured. 
4.1.3.3. The purpose statement may be excluded from the label if the product name 
includes a description of the species and animal class(es) for which the product 
is intended. 
4.1.3.4. The purpose statement of a premix for the manufacture of feed may exclude the 
animal class and species and state “For Further Manufacture of Feed” if the 
nutrients contained in the premix are guaranteed and sufficient for formulation 
into various animal species feeds and premix specifications are provided by the 
end user of the premix. [This section applicable to commercial feeds regulated 
under Part 4.1.4.10.2.10] 
4.1.3.5. The purpose statement of a single purpose ingredient blend, such as a blend of 
animal protein products, milk products, fat products, roughage products or 
molasses products may exclude the animal class and species and state “For 
Further Manufacture of Feed” if the label guarantees of the nutrients contained in 
the single purpose nutrient blend are sufficient to provide for formulation into 
various animal species feeds. [This section applicable to commercial feeds 
regulated under Part 4.1.4.10.2.10.] 
4.1.3.6. The purpose statement of a product shall include a statement of enzyme 
functionality if enzymatic activity is represented in any manner. 
4.1.4. 
Guarantees - Crude Protein, Equivalent Crude Protein from Non Protein Nitrogen, Amino 
Acids, Crude Fat, Crude Fiber, Acid Detergent Fiber, Neutral Detergent Fiber, Calcium, 
Phosphorus, Salt and Sodium shall be the sequence of nutritional guarantees when such 
guarantee is stated. Other required and voluntary guarantees should follow in a general 
format such that the units of measure used to express guarantees (percentage, parts per 
million, International Units, etc.) are listed in a sequence that provides a consistent 
grouping of the units of measure. All guarantees shall be stated on an “as is” basis. 
4.1.4.1. Required guarantees for swine formula feeds 
4.1.4.1.1. 
Animal Classes 
4.1.4.1.1.1. 
Pre-Starter - 2 to 11 pounds 
4.1.4.1.1.2. 
Starter -11 to 44 pounds 
4.1.4.1.1.3. 
Grower - 44 to 110 pounds 
4.1.4.1.1.4. 
Finisher -110 to 242 pounds (market) 
4.1.4.1.1.5. 
Gilts, Sows and Adult Boars

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
5 
4.1.4.1.1.6. 
Lactating Gilts and Sows 
4.1.4.1.2. 
Guaranteed Analysis for Swine Complete Feeds and 
Supplements (all animal classes) 
4.1.4.1.2.1. 
Minimum percentage of Crude Protein 
4.1.4.1.2.2. 
Minimum percentage of Lysine 
4.1.4.1.2.3. 
Minimum percentage of Crude Fat 
4.1.4.1.2.4. 
Maximum percentage of Crude Fiber 
4.1.4.1.2.5. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of Calcium 
4.1.4.1.2.6. 
Minimum percentage of Phosphorus 
4.1.4.1.2.7. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of Salt (if added) 
4.1.4.1.2.8. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of total Sodium shall 
be guaranteed only when total Sodium exceeds that furnished by 
the maximum Salt guarantee 
4.1.4.1.2.9. 
Minimum Selenium in parts per million (ppm) 
4.1.4.2. Required guarantees for Formula Poultry Feeds (Broilers, Layers and Turkeys) 
4.1.4.2.1. 
Animal Classes 
4.1.4.2.1.1. 
Layer - Chickens that are grown to produce eggs for 
food, e.g., table eggs 
4.1.4.2.1.1.1. 
Starting/Growing - From day of hatch to 
approximately 10 weeks of age. 
4.1.4.2.1.1.2. 
Finisher - From approximately 10 weeks of age 
to time first egg is produced. (Approximately 20 weeks of 
age). 
4.1.4.2.1.1.3. 
Laying - From time first egg is laid throughout 
the time of egg production. 
4.1.4.2.1.1.4. 
Breeders - Chickens that produce fertile eggs for 
hatch replacement layers to produce eggs for food, table 
eggs, from time first egg is laid throughout their 
productive cycle. 
4.1.4.2.1.2. 
Broilers - Chickens that are grown for human food. 
4.1.4.2.1.2.1. 
Starting/growing - From day of hatch to 
approximately 5 weeks of age. 
4.1.4.2.1.2.2. 
Finisher - From approximately 5 weeks of age to 
market, (42 to 52 days).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
6 
4.1.4.2.1.2.3. 
Breeders - Hybrid strains of chickens whose 
offspring are grown for human food, (broilers), any age 
and either sex. 
4.1.4.2.1.3. 
Broilers, Breeders - Chickens whose offspring are grown 
for human food (broilers). 
4.1.4.2.1.3.1. 
Starting/Growing - From day of hatch until 
approximately 10 weeks of age. 
4.1.4.2.1.3.2. 
Finishing - From approximately 10 weeks of age 
to time first egg is produced, approximately 20 weeks of 
age. 
4.1.4.2.1.3.3. 
Laying - Fertile egg producing chickens 
(broilers/roasters) from day of first egg throughout the 
time fertile eggs are produced. 
4.1.4.2.1.4. 
Turkeys 
4.1.4.2.1.4.1. 
Starting/Growing - Turkeys that are grown for 
human food from day of hatch to approximately 13 
weeks of age (females) and 16 weeks of age (males). 
4.1.4.2.1.4.2. 
Finisher - Turkeys that are grown for human 
food, females from approximately 13 weeks of age to 
approximately 17 weeks of age; males from 16 weeks of 
age to 20 weeks of age, (or desired market weight). 
4.1.4.2.1.4.3. 
Laying - Female turkeys that are producing 
eggs; from time first egg is produced, throughout the 
time they are producing eggs. 
4.1.4.2.1.4.4. 
Breeder - Turkeys that are grown to produce 
fertile eggs, from day of hatch to time first egg is 
produced (approximately 30 weeks of age), both sexes. 
4.1.4.2.2. 
Guaranteed Analysis for Poultry Complete Feeds and 
Supplements (all animal classes) 
4.1.4.2.2.1. 
Minimum percentage of Crude Protein 
4.1.4.2.2.2. 
Minimum percentage of Lysine 
4.1.4.2.2.3. 
Minimum percentage of Methionine 
4.1.4.2.2.4. 
Minimum percentage of Crude Fat 
4.1.4.2.2.5. 
Maximum percentage of Crude Fiber 
4.1.4.2.2.6. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of Calcium 
4.1.4.2.2.7. 
Minimum percentage of Phosphorus 
4.1.4.2.2.8. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of Salt (if added)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
7 
4.1.4.2.2.9. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of total Sodium shall 
be guaranteed only when total Sodium exceeds that furnished by 
the maximum Salt guarantee 
4.1.4.3. Required Guarantees for Beef Cattle Formula Feeds 
4.1.4.3.1. 
Animal Classes 
4.1.4.3.1.1. 
Calves (birth to weaning) 
4.1.4.3.1.2. 
Cattle on Pasture (may be specific as to production 
stage; e.g. stocker, feeder, replacement heifers, brood cows, 
bulls, etc.) 
4.1.4.3.1.3. 
Feedlot Cattle 
4.1.4.3.2. 
Guaranteed analysis for Beef Complete Feeds and Supplements 
(all animal classes) 
4.1.4.3.2.1. 
Minimum percentage of Crude Protein 
4.1.4.3.2.2. 
Maximum percentage of equivalent crude protein from 
Non-Protein Nitrogen (NPN) when added 
4.1.4.3.2.3. 
Minimum percentage of Crude Fat 
4.1.4.3.2.4. 
Maximum percentage of Crude Fiber 
4.1.4.3.2.5. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of Calcium 
4.1.4.3.2.6. 
Minimum percentage of Phosphorus 
4.1.4.3.2.7. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of Salt (if added) 
4.1.4.3.2.8. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of total Sodium shall 
be guaranteed only when total Sodium exceeds that furnished by 
the maximum Salt guarantee 
4.1.4.3.2.9. 
Minimum percentage of Potassium 
4.1.4.3.2.10. 
Minimum Vitamin A, other than precursors of Vitamin A, 
in International Units per pound (if added) 
4.1.4.3.3. 
Guaranteed analysis for Beef Mineral Feeds (if added) 
4.1.4.3.3.1. 
Minimum and maximum percentage Calcium 
4.1.4.3.3.2. 
Minimum percentage of Phosphorus 
4.1.4.3.3.3. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of Salt 
4.1.4.3.3.4. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of total Sodium shall 
be guaranteed only when total Sodium exceeds that furnished by 
the maximum Salt guarantee

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
8 
4.1.4.3.3.5. 
Minimum percentage of Magnesium 
4.1.4.3.3.6. 
Minimum percentage of Potassium 
4.1.4.3.3.7. 
Minimum Copper in parts per million (ppm) 
4.1.4.3.3.8. 
Minimum Selenium in parts per million (ppm) 
4.1.4.3.3.9. 
Minimum Zinc in parts per million (ppm) 
4.1.4.3.3.10. 
Minimum Vitamin A, other than precursors of Vitamin A, 
in International Units per pound 
4.1.4.4. Required Guarantees for Dairy Formula Feeds 
4.1.4.4.1. 
Animal Classes 
4.1.4.4.1.1. 
Veal Milk Replacer - Milk Replacer to be fed for veal 
production. 
4.1.4.4.1.2. 
Herd Milk Replacer - Milk Replacer to be fed for herd 
replacement calves. 
4.1.4.4.1.3. 
Starter - Approximately 3 days to 3 months. 
4.1.4.4.1.4. 
Growing Heifers, Bulls and Dairy Beef 
4.1.4.4.1.4.1. 
Grower 1 -3 months to 12 months of age 
4.1.4.4.1.4.2 
Grower 2 - More than 12 months of age 
4.1.4.4.1.5. 
Lactating Dairy Cattle 
4.1.4.4.1.6. 
Non-Lactating Dairy Cattle 
4.1.4.4.2. 
Guaranteed Analysis for Veal and Herd Replacement Milk 
Replacer 
4.1.4.4.2.1. 
Minimum percentage Crude Protein 
4.1.4.4.2.2. 
Minimum percentage Crude Fat 
4.1.4.4.2.3. 
Maximum percentage of Crude Fiber 
4.1.4.4.2.4. 
Minimum and maximum percentage Calcium 
4.1.4.4.2.5. 
Minimum percentage of Phosphorus 
4.1.4.4.2.6. 
Minimum Vitamin A, other than precursors of Vitamin A, 
in International Units per pound (if added) 
4.1.4.4.3. 
Guaranteed Analysis for Dairy Cattle Complete Feeds and 
Supplements 
4.1.4.4.3.1. 
Minimum percentage of Crude Protein

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
9 
4.1.4.4.3.2. 
Maximum percentage of Equivalent Crude Protein from 
Non-Protein Nitrogen (NPN) when added 
4.1.4.4.3.3. 
Minimum percentage of Crude Fat 
4.1.4.4.3.4. 
Maximum percentage of Crude Fiber 
4.1.4.4.3.5. 
Maximum percentage of Acid Detergent Fiber (ADF) 
4.1.4.4.3.6. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of Calcium 
4.1.4.4.3.7. 
Minimum percentage of Phosphorus 
4.1.4.4.3.8. 
Minimum Selenium in parts per million (ppm) 
4.1.4.4.3.9. 
Minimum Vitamin A, other than precursors of Vitamin A, 
in International Units per pound (if added) 
4.1.4.4.4. 
Required Guaranteed Analysis for Dairy Mixing and Pasture 
Mineral 
4.1.4.4.4.1. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of Calcium 
4.1.4.4.4.2. 
Minimum percentage of Phosphorus 
4.1.4.4.4.3. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of Salt 
4.1.4.4.4.4. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of total Sodium shall 
be guaranteed only when total Sodium exceeds that furnished by 
the maximum Salt guarantee 
4.1.4.4.4.5. 
Minimum percentage of Magnesium 
4.1.4.4.4.6. 
Minimum percentage of Potassium 
4.1.4.4.4.7. 
Minimum Selenium in parts per million (ppm) 
4.1.4.4.4.8. 
Minimum Vitamin A, other than the precursors of Vitamin 
A, in International Units per pound 
4.1.4.5. Required Guarantees for Equine Formula Feeds 
4.1.4.5.1. 
Animal Classes 
4.1.4.5.1.1. 
Foal 
4.1.4.5.1.2. 
Mare 
4.1.4.5.1.3. 
Breeding 
4.1.4.5.1.4. 
Maintenance 
4.1.4.5.2. 
Guaranteed Analysis for Equine Complete Feeds and 
Supplements (all animal classes)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
10 
4.1.4.5.2.1. 
Minimum percentage of Crude Protein 
4.1.4.5.2.2. 
Minimum percentage of Crude Fat 
4.1.4.5.2.3. 
Maximum percentage of Crude Fiber 
4.1.4.5.2.4. 
Maximum percentage of Acid Detergent Fiber (ADF) 
4.1.4.5.2.5. 
Maximum percentage of Neutral Detergent Fiber (NDF) 
4.1.4.5.2.6. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of Calcium 
4.1.4.5.2.7. 
Minimum percentage of Phosphorus 
4.1.4.5.2.8. 
Minimum Copper in parts per million (ppm) 
4.1.4.5.2.9. 
Minimum Selenium in parts per million (ppm) 
4.1.4.5.2.10. 
Minimum Zinc in parts per million (ppm) 
4.1.4.5.2.11. 
Minimum Vitamin A, other than the precursors of Vitamin 
A, in International Units per pound (if added) 
4.1.4.5.3. 
Guaranteed Analysis for Equine Mineral Feeds (all animal 
classes) 
4.1.4.5.3.1. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of Calcium 
4.1.4.5.3.2. 
Minimum percentage of Phosphorus 
4.1.4.5.3.3. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of Salt (if added) 
4.1.4.5.3.4. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of Sodium shall be 
guaranteed only when the total Sodium exceeds that furnished 
by the maximum Salt guarantee 
4.1.4.5.3.5. 
Minimum Copper in parts per million (ppm) 
4.1.4.5.3.6. 
Minimum Selenium in parts per million (ppm) 
4.1.4.5.3.7. 
Minimum Zinc in parts per million (ppm) 
4.1.4.5.3.8. 
Minimum Vitamin A, other than precursors of Vitamin A, 
in International Units per pound (if added) 
4.1.4.6. Required Guarantees for Goat and Sheep Formula Feeds 
4.1.4.6.1. 
Animal Classes 
4.1.4.6.1.1. 
Starter 
4.1.4.6.1.2. 
Grower 
4.1.4.6.1.3. 
Finisher

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
11 
4.1.4.6.1.4. 
Breeder 
4.1.4.6.1.5. 
Lactating 
4.1.4.6.2. 
Guaranteed Analysis for Goat and Sheep Complete Feeds and 
Supplements (all animal classes) 
4.1.4.6.2.1. 
Minimum percentage of Crude Protein 
4.1.4.6.2.2. 
Maximum percentage of equivalent crude protein from 
Non-Protein Nitrogen (NPN) when added 
4.1.4.6.2.3. 
Minimum percentage of Crude Fat 
4.1.4.6.2.4. 
Maximum percentage of Crude Fiber 
4.1.4.6.2.5. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of Calcium 
4.1.4.6.2.6. 
Minimum percentage of Phosphorus 
4.1.4.6.2.7. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of Salt (if added) 
4.1.4.6.2.8. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of total Sodium shall 
be guaranteed only when total Sodium exceeds that furnished by 
the maximum Salt guarantee 
4.1.4.6.2.9. 
Minimum and maximum Copper in parts per million 
(ppm) (if added, or if total copper exceeds 20 ppm) 
4.1.4.6.2.10. 
Minimum Selenium in parts per million (ppm) 
4.1.4.6.2.11. 
Minimum Vitamin A, other than precursors of Vitamin A, 
in International Units per pound (if added) 
4.1.4.7. Required Guarantees for Duck and Geese Formula Feeds 
4.1.4.7.1. 
Animal Classes 
4.1.4.7.1.1. 
Ducks 
4.1.4.7.1.1.1. 
Starter - 0 to 3 weeks of age 
4.1.4.7.1.1.2. 
Grower - 3 to 6 weeks of age 
4.1.4.7.1.1.3. 
Finisher - 6 weeks to market 
4.1.4.7.1.1.4. 
Breeder Developer - 8 to 19 weeks of age 
4.1.4.7.1.1.5. 
Breeder - 22 weeks to end of lay 
4.1.4.7.1.2. 
Geese 
4.1.4.7.1.2.1. 
Starter - 0 to 4 weeks of age 
4.1.4.7.1.2.2. 
Grower - 4 to 8 weeks of age

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
12 
4.1.4.7.1.2.3. 
Finisher - 8 weeks to market 
4.1.4.7.1.2.4. 
Breeder Developer -10 to 22 weeks of age 
4.1.4.7.1.2.5. 
Breeder - 22 weeks to end of lay 
4.1.4.7.2. 
Guaranteed Analysis for Duck and Geese Complete Feeds and 
Supplements (for all animal classes) 
4.1.4.7.2.1. 
Minimum percentage of Crude Protein 
4.1.4.7.2.2. 
Minimum percentage of Crude Fat 
4.1.4.7.2.3. 
Maximum percentage of Crude Fiber 
4.1.4.7.2.4. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of Calcium 
4.1.4.7.2.5. 
Minimum percentage of Phosphorus 
4.1.4.7.2.6. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of Salt (if added) 
4.1.4.7.2.7. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of total Sodium shall 
be guaranteed only when total Sodium exceeds that furnished by 
the maximum Salt guarantee 
4.1.4.8. Required Guarantees for Fish Complete Feeds and Supplements 
4.1.4.8.1. 
Animal Species shall be declared in lieu of animal class 
4.1.4.8.1.1. 
Trout 
4.1.4.8.1.2. 
Catfish 
4.1.4.8.1.3. 
Species other than trout or catfish 
4.1.4.8.2. 
Guaranteed analysis for all Fish Complete Feeds and 
Supplements 
4.1.4.8.2.1. 
Minimum percentage of Crude Protein 
4.1.4.8.2.2. 
Minimum percentage of Crude Fat 
4.1.4.8.2.3. 
Maximum percentage of Crude Fiber 
4.1.4.8.2.4. 
Minimum percentage of Phosphorus 
4.1.4.9. Required Guarantees for Rabbit Complete Feeds and Supplements 
4.1.4.9.1. 
Animal Classes 
4.1.4.9.1.1. 
Grower - 4 to 12 weeks of age 
4.1.4.9.1.2. 
Breeder -12 weeks of age and over

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
13 
4.1.4.9.2. 
Guaranteed analysis for Rabbit Complete Feeds and 
Supplements (all animal classes) 
4.1.4.9.2.1. 
Minimum percentage of Crude Protein 
4.1.4.9.2.2. 
Minimum percentage of Crude Fat 
4.1.4.9.2.3. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of Crude Fiber (the 
maximum crude fiber shall not exceed the minimum by more 
than 5.0 units) 
4.1.4.9.2.4. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of Calcium 
4.1.4.9.2.5. 
Minimum percentage of Phosphorus 
4.1.4.9.2.6. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of Salt (if added) 
4.1.4.9.2.7. 
Minimum and maximum percentage of total Sodium shall 
be guaranteed only when total Sodium exceeds that furnished by 
the maximum Salt guarantee 
4.1.4.9.2.8. 
Minimum Vitamin A, other than precursors of Vitamin A, 
in International Units per pound (if added) 
4.1.4.10. 
The required guarantees of grain mixtures with or without molasses and 
feeds other than those described in Part 4.1.4.1 through 4.1.4.9 shall include the 
following items, unless exempted in Part 9, in the order listed: 
4.1.4.10.1. 
Animal class(es) and species for which the product is intended. 
4.1.4.10.2. 
Guaranteed analysis 
4.1.4.10.2.1. 
Minimum percentage Crude Protein 
4.1.4.10.2.2. 
Maximum or minimum percentage of equivalent Crude 
Protein from Non-Protein Nitrogen as required in Section 5.5. 
4.1.4.10.2.3. 
Minimum percentage of Crude Fat 
4.1.4.10.2.4. 
Maximum percentage of Crude Fiber 
4.1.4.10.2.5. 
Minerals in formula feeds, to include in the following 
order: 
4.1.4.10.2.5.1. Minimum and maximum percentages of Calcium 
4.1.4.10.2.5.2. Minimum percentage of Phosphorus 
4.1.4.10.2.5.3. Minimum and maximum percentage of Salt (if 
added) 
4.1.4.10.2.5.4. Minimum and maximum percentage of total 
Sodium shall be guaranteed only when total Sodium 
exceeds that furnished by the maximum Salt guarantee

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
14 
4.1.4.10.2.5.5. Other Minerals 
4.1.4.10.2.6. 
Minerals in feed ingredients - as specified by the Official 
Definitions of Feed Ingredients published in the 2022 Official 
Publication of AAFCO. 
4.1.4.10.2.7. 
Vitamins in such terms as specified in Part 5.3. 
4.1.4.10.2.8. 
Total sugars as invert on dried molasses products or 
products being sold primarily for their sugar content 
4.1.4.10.2.9. 
Viable lactic acid producing microorganisms for use in 
silage in terms specified in Part 5.7. 
4.1.4.10.2.10. 
A commercial feed (e.g. vitamin/mineral premix, base 
mix, etc.) intended to provide a specialized nutritional source for 
use in the manufacture of other feeds, must state its intended 
purpose and guarantee those nutrients relevant to such stated 
purpose. 
4.1.4.11. 
Exemptions 
4.1.4.11.1. 
A mineral guarantee for feed, excluding those feeds 
manufactured as complete feeds and for feed supplements intended to 
be mixed with grain to produce a complete feed for swine, poultry, fish, 
and veal and herd milk replacers, is not required when: 
4.1.4.11.1.1. 
The feed or feed ingredient is not intended or 
represented or does not serve as a principal source of that 
mineral to the animal; or 
4.1.4.11.1.2. 
The feed or feed ingredient is intended for non-food 
producing animals and contains less than 6.5% total mineral. 
4.1.4.11.2. 
Guarantees for vitamins are not required when the commercial 
feed is neither formulated for nor represented in any manner as a vitamin 
supplement. 
4.1.4.11.3. 
Guarantees for crude protein, crude fat, and crude fiber are not 
required when the commercial feed is intended for purposes other than 
to furnish these substances or they are of minor significance relating to 
the primary purpose of the product, such as drug premixes, mineral or 
vitamin supplements, and molasses. 
4.1.4.11.4. 
Guarantees for microorganisms are not required when the 
commercial feed is intended for a purpose other than to furnish these 
substances or they are of minor significance relating to the primary 
purpose of the product, and no specific label claims are made. 
4.1.4.11.5. 
The indication for animal class(es) and species is not required on 
single ingredient products if the ingredient is not intended, represented, 
or defined for a specific animal class(es) or species.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
15 
4.1.4.11.6. 
In lieu of a guaranteed analysis statement, wild bird feed labels 
may substitute a composition statement that lists the percentage of each 
ingredient. Composition statement values are allowed a variance from 
the actual value up to 5%. 
4.1.5. Feed ingredients, collective terms for the grouping of feed ingredients, or appropriate 
statements as provided under the provisions of Section 35-60-106(1)(e), C.R.S. of the 
Colorado Feed Law. 
4.1.5.1. The name of each ingredient listed in descending order of predominance by 
weight and as defined in the Official Definitions of Feed Ingredients published in 
the Official Publication of AAFCO, common or usual name, or one approved by 
the Commissioner. 
4.1.5.2. Collective terms for the grouping of feed ingredients as defined in the Official 
Definitions of Feed Ingredients published in the Official Publication of AAFCO, in 
lieu of the individual ingredients; provided that: 
4.1.5.2.1. 
When a collective term for a group of ingredients is used on the 
label, individual ingredients within that group shall not be listed on the 
label. 
4.1.5.2.2. 
The manufacturer shall provide the feed control official, upon 
request, with a list of individual ingredients, within a defined group, that 
are or have been used at manufacturing facilities distributing in or into 
the state. 
4.1.6. 
Directions for use and precautionary statements or reference to their location if the 
detailed feeding directions and precautionary statements required by Parts 8 and 9 
appear elsewhere on the label. 
4.1.7. 
Name and principal mailing address of the manufacturer or person responsible for 
distributing the feed. The principal mailing address shall include the street address, city, 
state, zip code. However, the street address may be omitted if it is shown in the current 
city directory or telephone directory. 
4.1.8. 
Quantity Statement. 
4.1.8.1 Net quantity shall be declared in terms of weight, liquid measure or count. 
4.1.8.2. Net quantity labeled in terms of weight shall be expressed both in pounds, with 
any remainder in terms of ounces or common or decimal fractions of the pound 
and in appropriate SI metric system units; or in the case of liquid measure, both 
in the largest whole unit (quarts, quarts and pints, or pints, as appropriate) with 
any remainder in terms of fluid ounces or common or decimal fractions of the pint 
or whole quart and in the appropriate SI metric system units. 
4.1.8.3. When the declaration of quantity of contents by count does not give the adequate 
information as to the quantity of feed in the container, it shall be combined with 
such statement of weight, liquid measure, or size of the individual units as will 
provide such information.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
16 
Part 5. Expression of Guarantees 
5.1. 
The guarantees for crude protein, equivalent crude protein from non-protein nitrogen, lysine, 
methionine, other amino acids, crude fat, crude fiber and acid detergent fiber shall be in terms of 
percentage. 
5.2. 
Mineral Guarantees 
5.2.1. 
When the calcium, Salt, and sodium guarantees are given in the guaranteed analysis 
such shall be stated and conform to the following: 
5.2.1.1. When the minimum is below 2.5%, the maximum shall not exceed the minimum 
by more than 0.5 percentage point. 
5.2.1.2. When the minimum is 2.5% but less than 5.0%, the maximum shall not exceed 
the minimum by more than one percentage point. 
5.2.1.3. When the minimum is above 5.0% or greater the maximum shall not exceed the 
minimum by more than 20% of the minimum and in no case shall the maximum 
exceed the minimum by more than five percentage points. 
5.2.2. 
When stated, guarantees for minimum and maximum total sodium and Salt: minimum 
potassium, magnesium, sulfur, phosphorus and maximum fluoride shall be in terms of 
percentage. Other minimum mineral guarantees shall be stated in parts per million (ppm) 
when the concentration is less than 10,000 ppm and in percentage when the 
concentration is 10,000 ppm (1%) or greater. 
5.2.3. 
Products labeled with a quantity statement (e.g., tablets, capsules, granules, or liquid) 
may state mineral guarantees in milligrams (mg) per unit (e.g., tablets, capsules, 
granules, or liquids) consistent with the quantity statement and directions for use. 
5.3. 
Guarantees for minimum vitamin content of commercial feeds shall be listed in the order specified 
and are stated in mg/lb or in units consistent with those employed for the quantity statement 
unless otherwise specified: 
5.3.1. 
Vitamin A, other than precursors of vitamin A, in International Units per pound. 
5.3.2. 
Vitamin D-3 in products offered for poultry feeding, in International Chick Units per pound. 
5.3.3. 
Vitamin D for other uses, International Units per pound. 
5.3.4. 
Vitamin E, in International Units per pound. 
5.3.5. 
Concentrated oils and feed additive premixes containing vitamins A, D and/or E may, at 
the option of the distributor be stated in units per gram instead of units per pound. 
5.3.6. 
Vitamin B-12, in milligrams or micrograms per pound. 
5.3.7. 
All other vitamin guarantees shall express the vitamin activity in milligrams per pound in 
terms of the following: menadione; riboflavin; d-pantothenic acid; thiamine; niacin; vitamin 
B-6; folic acid; choline; biotin; inositol; p-amino benzoic acid; ascorbic acid; and carotene. 
5.4. 
Guarantees for drugs shall be stated in terms of percent by weight, except:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
17 
5.4.1. 
Antibiotics, present at less than 2,000 grams per ton (total) of commercial feed shall be 
stated in grams per ton of commercial feed. 
5.4.2. 
Antibiotics present at 2,000 or more grams per ton (total) of commercial feed shall be 
stated in grams per pound of commercial feed. 
5.4.3. 
Labels for commercial feeds containing growth promotion and/or feed efficiency levels of 
antibiotics, which are to be fed continuously as the sole ration, are not required to make 
quantitative guarantees except as specifically noted in Part 558 of the Code of Federal 
Regulations, Title 21, 2000, incorporated herein by reference (later amendments not 
included), for certain antibiotics, wherein quantitative, guarantees are required regardless 
of the level or purpose of the antibiotic. 
5.4.4. 
The term “milligrams per pound” may be used for drugs or antibiotics in those cases 
where a dosage is given in “milligrams” in the feeding directions. 
5.5. 
Commercial feeds containing any added non-protein nitrogen shall be labeled as follows: 
5.5.1. 
For ruminants 
5.5.1.1. Complete feeds, supplements, and concentrates containing added non-protein 
nitrogen and containing more than 5% protein from natural sources shall be 
guaranteed as follows: 
Crude Protein, minimum, _____ % 
(This includes not more than ____ % equivalent crude protein from non-protein 
nitrogen). 
5.5.1.2. Mixed feed concentrates and supplements containing less than 5% protein from 
natural sources may be guaranteed as follows: 
Equivalent Crude Protein from Non-Protein Nitrogen, minimum, _____ % 
5.5.1.3. Ingredient sources of non-protein nitrogen such as Urea, Diammonium 
Phosphate, Ammonium Polyphosphate Solution, Ammoniated Rice Hulls, or 
other basic non-protein nitrogen ingredients defined and published in the Official 
Publication of AAFCO Inc. (later amendments not included) shall be guaranteed 
as follows: 
Nitrogen, minimum, ____ % 
Equivalent Crude Protein from Non-Protein Nitrogen, minimum, ___ % 
5.5.2. 
For non-ruminants 
5.5.2.1. Complete feeds, supplements and concentrates containing crude protein from all 
forms of non-protein nitrogen, added as such, shall be labeled as follows: 
Crude protein, minimum ____ % 
(This includes not more than ____ % equivalent crude protein, which is not 
nutritionally available to species of animal for which feed is intended).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
18 
5.5.2.2. Premixes, concentrates or supplements intended for non-ruminants containing 
more than 1.25% equivalent crude protein from all forms of non-protein nitrogen, 
added as such, must contain adequate directions for use and a prominent 
statement: 
WARNING: This feed must be used only in accordance with directions furnished 
on the label. 
5.6. 
Mineral phosphatic materials for feeding purposes shall be labeled with the guarantee for 
minimum and maximum percentage of calcium (when present), the minimum percentage of 
phosphorus, and the maximum percentage of fluorine. 
5.7. 
Guarantees for microorganisms shall be stated in colony forming units per gram (CFU/g) when 
directions are for using the product in grams, or in colony forming units per pound (CFU/lb) when 
directions are for using the product in pounds. A parenthetical statement following the guarantee 
shall list each species in order of predominance. 
5.8. 
Guarantees for enzymes shall be stated in units of enzymatic activity per unit weight or volume, 
consistent with label directions. The source organism for each type of enzymatic activity shall be 
specified, such as: Protease (Bacillus subtilis) 5.5 mg amino acids liberated/min./milligram. If two 
or more sources have the same type of activity, they shall be listed in order of predominance 
based on the amount of enzymatic activity provided. 
5.9. 
Guarantees for minimum percentage of total sugars, as invert shall be included for products being 
sold for their molasses content or products containing more than 16% sugars. 
5.10. 
Guarantees for maximum percentage of moisture shall be included for liquid feed supplements 
and liquid ingredients containing more than 20% moisture. 
5.11. 
Wild bird seed composition statement values are allowed a variance from the actual value up to 
5%. 
5.12. 
Guarantees for dietary starches, sugars, and fructans for Commercial Feeds, other than 
customer-formula feed, Pet Food, and Specialty Pet Food Products: 
5.12.1. A commercial feed which bears on its labeling a claim in any manner for levels of “dietary 
starch,” “sugars,” “fructans,” or words of similar designation, shall include on the label: 
5.12.1.1. 
Guarantees for maximum percentage of dietary starch and maximum 
percentage of sugars, in the Guaranteed Analysis section immediately following 
the last fiber guarantee. 
5.12.1.2. 
A maximum percentage guarantee for fructans immediately following the 
sugars, if the feed contains forage products. 
5.12.2. When such guarantees for dietary starch, sugars, or fructans for commercial feeds 
appear on the label, feeding directions shall indicate the proper use of the feed product 
and a recommendation to consult with a veterinarian or nutritionist for a recommended 
diet. 
Part 6. Suitability 
6.1. 
A commercial feed, other than a customer-formula feed, shall be nutritionally suitable for its 
intended purpose as represented by its labeling.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
19 
6.2. 
If the Commissioner has reasonable cause to believe a feed is not nutritionally suitable, then the 
Commissioner may request the feed manufacturer to either submit an “Affidavit of Suitability” or 
an alternate procedure acceptable to the Commissioner, certifying the nutritional adequacy of the 
feed. The Affidavit of Suitability or alternate procedure of suitability shall serve as substantiation 
of the suitability of the feed. 
6.3. 
If an Affidavit of Suitability, or alternative procedure acceptable to the Commissioner is not 
submitted by the feed manufacturer within 30 days of written notification, the Commissioner may 
deem the feed adulterated under Section 35-60-107(2)(m), C.R.S., and order the feed removed 
from the marketplace. 
6.4. 
The Affidavit of Suitability shall contain the following information: 
6.4.1. 
The feed company's name; 
6.4.2. 
The feed's product name; 
6.4.3. 
The name and title of the affiant submitting the document; 
6.4.4. 
A statement that the affiant has knowledge of the nutritional content of the feed and 
based on valid scientific evidence the feed is nutritionally adequate for its intended 
purpose; 
6.4.5. 
The date of submission; and 
6.4.6. 
The signature of the affiant notarized by a certified Notary Public. 
Part 7. Ingredients 
7.1. 
The name of each ingredient or collective term for the grouping of ingredients, when required to 
be listed, shall be the name as defined in the Official Definitions of Feed Ingredients published in 
the 2022 Official Publication of AAFCO, the common or usual name, or one approved by the 
Commissioner. 
7.2. 
The name of each ingredient must be shown in letters or type of the same size. 
7.3. 
No reference to quality or grade of an ingredient shall appear in the ingredient statement of a 
feed. 
7.4. 
The term “dehydrated” may precede the name of any product that has been artificially dried. 
7.5. 
A single ingredient product as defined in the Official Definitions of Feed Ingredients published in 
the 2022 Official Publication of AAFCO is not required to have an ingredient statement. 
7.6. 
Tentative definitions as published in the Official Definitions of Feed Ingredients published in the 
2022 Official Publication of AAFCO for ingredients shall not be used until adopted as official, 
unless no official definition exists or the ingredient has a common accepted name that requires no 
definition, (i.e. sugar). 
7.7. 
When the word “iodized” is used in connection with a feed ingredient, the feed ingredient shall 
contain not less than 0.007% iodine, uniformly distributed.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
20 
Part 8. Directions for Use and Precautionary Statements 
8.1. 
Directions for use and precautionary statements on the labeling of all commercial feeds and 
customer-formula feeds including those containing additives shall: 
8.1.1. 
Be adequate to enable safe and effective use for the intended purposes by users with no 
special knowledge of the purpose and use of such articles; and, 
8.1.2. 
Include, but not be limited to, all information described by all applicable regulations under 
the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. 
8.2. 
Adequate directions for use and precautionary statements are required for feeds containing non-
protein nitrogen as specified in Part 9. 
8.3. 
Adequate directions for use and precautionary statements necessary for safe and effective use 
are required on commercial feeds distributed to supply particular dietary needs or for 
supplementing or fortifying the usual diet or ration with any vitamin, mineral, or other dietary 
nutrient or compound. 
Part 9. Non-Protein Nitrogen 
9.1. 
Urea and other non-protein nitrogen products defined in the Official Definitions of Feed 
Ingredients published in the 2022 Official Publication of AAFCO are acceptable ingredients only 
in commercial feeds for ruminant animals as a source of equivalent crude protein. If the 
commercial feed contains more than 8.75% of equivalent crude protein from all forms of non-
protein nitrogen, added as such, or the equivalent crude protein from all forms of non-protein 
nitrogen, added as such, exceeds one-third of the total crude protein, the label shall bear 
adequate directions for the safe use of feeds and a precautionary statement: “CAUTION: USE AS 
DIRECTED.” The directions for use and the caution statement shall be in type of such size so 
placed on the label that they will be read and understood by ordinary persons under customary 
conditions of purchase and use. 
9.2. 
Non-protein nitrogen defined in the Official Definitions of Feed Ingredients published in the 2022 
Official Publication of AAFCO when so indicated, are acceptable ingredients in commercial feeds 
distributed to non-ruminant animals as a source of nutrients other than equivalent crude protein. 
The maximum equivalent crude protein from non-protein nitrogen sources when used in non-
ruminant rations shall not exceed 1.25% of the total daily ration. 
9.3. 
On labels such as those for medicated feeds which bear adequate feeding directions and/or 
warning statements, the presence of added non-protein nitrogen shall not require a duplication of 
the feeding directions or the precautionary statements as long as those statements include 
sufficient information to ensure the safe and effective use of this product due to the presence of 
non-protein nitrogen. 
Part 10. 
Drug and Feed Additives 
10.1. 
Prior to approval of a registration application and/or approval of a label for commercial feed which 
contains additives (including drugs, other special purpose additives, or non-nutritive additives) the 
distributor may be required to submit evidence to prove the safety and efficacy of the commercial 
feed when used according to the directions furnished on the label. 
10.2. 
Satisfactory evidence of safety and efficacy of a commercial feed may be:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
21 
10.2.1. When the commercial feed contains such additives, the use of which conforms to the 
requirements of the applicable regulation in the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 21, or 
which are “prior sanctioned” or “informal review sanctioned” or “generally recognized as 
safe” for such use, or 
10.2.2. When the commercial feed is itself a drug as defined in Section 35-60-102(8) of the 
Colorado Feed Law and is generally recognized as safe and effective for the labeled use 
or is marketed subject to an application approved by the Food and Drug Administration 
under Title 21 U.S.C. 360 b, or 
10.2.3. When one of the purposes for feeding a commercial feed is to impart immunity (that is to 
act through some immunological process) the constituents imparting immunity have been 
approved for the purpose through the Federal Virus, Serum and Toxins Act of 1913, as 
amended, or 
10.2.4. When the commercial feed is a direct fed microbial product and: 
10.2.4.1. 
The product meets the particular fermentation product definition; and 
10.2.4.2. 
The microbial content statement, as expressed in the labeling, is limited 
to the following: “Contains a source of live (viable) naturally occurring 
microorganisms.” This statement shall appear on the label; and 
10.2.4.3. 
The source is stated with a corresponding guarantee expressed in 
accordance with Part 5.7. 
10.2.5. When the commercial feed is an enzyme product and: 
10.2.5.1. 
The product meets the particular enzyme definition as defined in the 
Official Definitions of Feed Ingredients published in the 2022 Official Publication 
of AAFCO, and 
10.2.5.2. 
The enzyme is stated with a corresponding guarantee expressed in 
accordance with Part 5.8. 
Part 11. 
Adulterants 
11.1. 
For the purpose of Section 35-60-107(2)(a), C.R.S., of the Colorado Feed Law, the terms 
“poisonous or deleterious substances” include but are not limited to the following: 
11.1.1. Fluorine and any mineral or mineral mixture which is to be used directly for the feeding of 
domestic animals and in which the fluorine exceeds 0.20% for breeding and dairy cattle; 
0.30% for slaughter cattle; 0.30% for sheep; 0.35% for lambs; 0.45% for swine; and 
0.60% for poultry. 
11.1.2. Fluorine bearing ingredients when used in such amounts that they raise the fluorine 
content of the total ration (exclusive of roughage) above the following amounts: 0.004% 
for breeding and dairy cattle; 0.009% for slaughter cattle; 0.006% for sheep; 0.01% for 
lambs; 0.015% for swine and 0.03% for poultry. 
11.1.3. Fluorine bearing ingredients incorporated in any feed that is fed directly to cattle, sheep 
or goats consuming roughage (with or without) limited amounts of grain, that results in a 
daily fluorine intake in excess of 50 milligrams of fluorine per 100 pounds of body weight.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
22 
11.1.4. Soybean meal, flakes or pellets or other vegetable meals, flakes or pellets which have 
been extracted with trichlorethylene or other chlorinated solvents. 
11.1.5. Sulfur dioxide, Sulfurous acid, and salts of Sulfurous acid when used in or on feeds or 
feed ingredients which are considered or reported to be a significant source of vitamin 
B1(Thiamine). 
11.1.6. Aflatoxin B1, B2, G1, G2 above 20 parts per billion (ppb) individually or total when in feed 
destined for dairy animals or an unknown use, over 20 ppb for feed and ingredients 
(excluding cottonseed meal) for immature animals, over 100 ppb for corn and peanut 
products for breeding cattle, breeding swine, and mature poultry, over 200 ppb for corn 
and peanut products for finishing swine over 100 pounds, over 300 ppb for corn and 
peanut products finishing beef cattle, and over 300 ppb for cottonseed meal for beef 
cattle, swine or poultry. 
11.1.7. Fumonisin above 5 parts per million (ppm) except that with proper labeling as approved 
by the Commissioner less than 15 ppm may be distributed when destined for finishing 
swine (more than 100 lbs. body weight); less than 50 ppm may be distributed for feedlot 
cattle. 
11.2. 
All screenings or by-products of grains and seeds containing weed seeds, when used in 
commercial feed or sold as such to the ultimate consumer, shall be ground fine enough or 
otherwise treated to destroy the viability of such weed seeds so that the finished product contains 
no viable prohibited weed seeds and not more than 1 viable restricted weed seeds per pound. 
For the purposes of this provision, prohibited weed seed and restricted weed seeds shall be 
those as established by the Commissioner under the Colorado Seed Act (Section 35-27-103 (16), 
C.R.S.) and in the Rules adopted thereunder. 
Part 12. 
Good Manufacturing Practices 
12.1. 
For the purposes of enforcement of Section 35-60-107(2)(n), C.R.S., of the Colorado Feed Law 
the Commissioner adopts and incorporates by reference the following as current good 
manufacturing practices: 
12.1.1. The Regulations prescribing good manufacturing practices for Type B and Type C 
medicated feeds as published in the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 21, Part 225, 
Sections 225.1-225.202, (2000) (later amendments not included). 
12.1.2. The Regulations prescribing good manufacturing practices for Type A Medicated Articles 
as published in the Code of Federal Regulations Title 21, Part 226, Sections 226.1-
226.115, (2000) (later amendments not included). 
Part 13. 
Material Incorporated by Reference 
These rules herein incorporate the Official Publication of the Association of American Feed Control 
Officials, Inc (“AAFCO”), effective January 1, 2023. This rule incorporates by reference the AAFCO 
standards and guidelines. This rule does not adopt any later amendments to, or editions of, the AAFCO 
standards and guidelines. A copy of the Official Publication of the Association of American Feed Control 
Officials, Inc. shall be kept on file at the Department of Agriculture, located at 305 Interlocken Parkway, 
Broomfield Colorado 80021, and shall be open to public inspection, and available for copying, during 
normal business hours. A copy of the official publication shall also be kept at the AAFCO Headquarters 
Office, located at 1800 S. Oak Street, Suite 100, Champaign, IL 61820-6974 and is available online at: 
https://www.aafco.org/Publications This, and any other material that is incorporated by reference, may be 
examined at any state publications depository library.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
23 
Part 14. 
False or Incomplete Information 
All information required by the Commissioner from any person in connection with any application for a 
registration, report, or record required under the Colorado Feed Law must be accurate and complete. 
Failure to provide accurate and complete information in connection with any such document, including but 
not limited to providing all documentation required to establish an individual applicant’s lawful presence in 
the United States pursuant to Section 24-76.5-103, C.R.S., shall be grounds for denial of an application 
for registration or for renewal thereof, or revocation or suspension of an existing registration. 
Part 15. 
Commercial Feed Registration 
No person shall manufacture commercial feed within the state or allow his or her name to appear on the 
label of a commercial feed as guarantor, without first registering with the Department as required by 
Sections 35-60-103 and 35-60-104, C.R.S. Such registration shall expire on January 31st and may be 
renewed annually. 
Part 16. 
Distribution Fees-Reports 
16.1. 
A distributor who is subject to a tonnage distribution fee required by Section 35-60-105(1), C.R.S. 
shall file with the Commissioner, no later than January 31st each year, a statement that sets forth 
the number of net tons of commercial feeds distributed in the state. 
16.2. 
A distributor who is subject to the distribution fee for small packages of ten pounds or less shall 
file with the Commissioner, no later than January 31st each year, a list of all small package 
products of ten pounds or less that are distributed in this state. 
16.3. 
A distributor who is subject to a tonnage distribution fee required by Section 35-60-105(1), 
C.R.S., and the distribution fee for small packages of ten pounds or less shall comply with both 
Parts 16.1 and 16.2 of these Rules. 
Part 17. 
Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose 
17.1. 
Adopted April 10, 2001 – Effective May 30, 2001 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 
The Commissioner of Agriculture, Colorado Department of Agriculture, adopts these permanent rules 
pursuant to the provisions and requirements of the Colorado Commercial Feed Law, § 35-60- 109(1), 
C.R.S. (2000). 
PURPOSE: 
The purpose of these rules is to comply with the requirements of the Colorado Commercial Feed to 
provide specific guidelines for the manufacture, labeling and distribution of commercial feed. 
These rules are designed to: 
- 
Set standards for the correct labeling of livestock and pet food. 
- 
Set standards for good manufacturing practices for medicated livestock feed. 
FACTUAL AND POLICY ISSUES: 
The factual and policy issues encountered in the proposal of these permanent rules are as follows:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
24 
1. 
The Colorado Commercial Feed Law was repealed and reenacted effective January 1, 2000. 
That statute requires the Commissioner to adopt the Official Definitions of Feed Ingredients and 
Official Feed Terms adopted by the Association of American Feed Control Officials, Inc. 
(AAFCO), as published in the official publication of such association. 
2. 
These new, revised rules are based upon national standard (model) regulations developed by 
AAFCO, a nation-wide group of regulatory officials. They are specifically for the purpose of 
promoting standardization between states for the animal feed industry. 
3. 
Over 30% of the states have adopted the AAFCO model regulations. These rules are widely 
accepted by Colorado and national feed companies. Adoption of these rules would help to ensure 
uniform labeling requirements. 
4. 
The Department met with the Colorado Grain and Feed Association’s (CFGA) Feed Committee 
throughout the rule drafting process. The CGFA supports these new rules and regulations. 
5. 
Two sets of rules are needed, one for livestock feed, the other for pet food. Livestock feed rules 
are specific to matters regarding production, animal growth and weight gain, and use of 
medications in feed. Pet food rules employ separate criteria for complete and balanced nutrition 
and provide regulatory guidance for advertising and claims frequently found on pet food labels. 
17.2. 
Emergency Rule Adopted October 19, 2006 – Effective October 19, 2006 
Statutory Authority: 
These emergency amendments to the Rules Pertaining to the Administration and Enforcement of the 
Colorado Commercial Feed Law, §§ 35-60-101 - 115, C.R.S., are proposed for adoption by the 
Commissioner pursuant to his authority in Section 35-60-109(1), C.R.S. 
Purpose: 
The purposes of these emergency amendments to the rules are as follows: 
(a) 
To specify in rule that all information required or requested by the Commissioner, including lawful 
presence documentation required under Section 24-76.5-103, C.R.S., must be complete and 
accurate, and to specify the legal consequences of noncompliance with this rule. 
(b) 
To document and record the statements of statutory authority, basis and purpose for these rules. 
Factual Basis: 
(a) 
On August 1, 2006, Section 24-76.5-103, C.R.S., took effect following its enactment in House Bill 
06S-1023 by the General Assembly in the July, 2006, special legislative session. 
(b) 
Currently, neither the Commercial Feed Law nor its associated rules specify that individuals who 
apply for registrations must comply with the verification documentation requirements of Section 
24-76.5-103, C.R.S. 
(c) 
These emergency rules are necessary to provide the Commissioner with specific legal authority 
to deny applications for registration or renewal of existing registrations from natural persons who 
do not provide sufficient documentation to comply with Section 24-76.5-103, C.R.S., and to 
revoke existing registrations if the information provided in connection with an application is later 
proven to be false.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
25 
(d) 
These emergency rules are necessary to fulfill the purposes described above prior to the 
adoption of permanent rules to that effect. 
17.3. 
Adopted November 13, 2006 – Effective January 1, 2007 
Statutory Authority: 
These permanent amendments to the Rules Pertaining to the Administration and Enforcement of the 
Colorado Commercial Feed Law, §§ 35-60-101 - 115, C.R.S., are proposed for adoption by the 
Commissioner pursuant to his authority in Section 35-60-109(1), C.R.S. 
Purpose: 
The purposes of these permanent amendments are as follows: 
(a) 
To specify in a permanent rule that all information required or requested by the Commissioner, 
including lawful presence documentation required under Section 24-76.5-103, C.R.S., must be 
complete and accurate, and to specify the legal consequences of noncompliance with this rule. 
(b) 
To document and record the statements of statutory authority, basis and purpose for these rules. 
Factual Basis: 
(a) 
On August 1, 2006, Section 24-76.5-103, C.R.S., took effect following its enactment in House Bill 
06S-1023 by the General Assembly in the July, 2006, special legislative session. 
(b) 
On October 19, 2006, the Commissioner adopted emergency rules specifying that individuals 
who apply for registrations under the Commercial Feed Law must comply with the verification 
documentation requirements of Section 24-76.5-103, C.R.S. 
(c) 
These permanent amendments to the rules are necessary to provide the Commissioner with 
specific legal authority, following the expiration of the emergency rules adopted on October 19, 
2006, to deny applications for registration or renewal of existing registrations from natural persons 
who do not provide sufficient documentation to comply with Section 24-76.5-103, C.R.S., and to 
revoke existing registrations if the information provided in connection with an application is later 
proven to be false. 
(d) 
These permanent amendments to the rules are necessary to make permanent the provisions of 
the emergency rules adopted by the Commissioner on October 2, 2006. 
17.4. 
Adopted November 1, 2007 – Effective December 30, 2007 
Statutory Authority: 
These amendments are proposed for adoption by the Commissioner pursuant to his authority in section 
35-60-109(1), C.R.S. 
Purpose: 
The purposes of these amendments are as follows: 
(a) 
To amend the name of the Act used in the Rules to correspond with the new name adopted under 
Senate Bill 07-207. 
(b) 
Remove the definition of “contract feeder.”

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
26 
(c) 
To clarify the reporting requirements associated with the respective distribution fees. 
(d) 
To specify the due date of the distribution fees and report. 
(e) 
To specify the expiration date of a commercial feed registration. 
(f) 
To amend the listing of guarantees from an “as fed” basis to an “as is” basis. 
(g) 
Update the references to the official publications of the Association of American Feed Control 
Officials (AAFCO) incorporated by reference to the 2007 version. 
(h) 
To correct typographical errors. 
Factual Basis: 
(a) 
On May 22, 2007, the Colorado Commercial Feed Law was amended by Senate Bill 07-207. The 
title of the law was amended to the Colorado Feed Law. 
(b) 
The registration expiration date and the filing date for distribution fees and reports were removed 
from the Colorado Feed Law. The rules maintain the existing date for the submission of 
distribution reports and fees, and establish a new expiration date for feed registration to coincide 
with the distribution due date. This change will allow industry to file both reports at one time. 
(c) 
A new definition for “contract feeder” was adopted in the Colorado Feed Law which supersedes 
the current rule definition. 
(d) 
The current rules require the guaranteed analysis to be listed on an “as fed” basis. The AAFCO 
national standard requires it be listed on an “as is” basis. 
17.5. 
Adopted February 11, 2015 – Effective March 30, 2015 
The Commissioner's authority for the adoption of these permanent Rule amendments is set forth in 
Sections 35-60-102(2) and 35-60-109(1), C.R.S. 
The Purpose of this rulemaking is to: 
1. 
Edit Part 1 Legal Authority to include all rulemaking authority in 35-60, C.R.S. 
2. 
Update the references throughout the Rules to the official publication of the Association of 
American Feed Control Officials (AAFCO) incorporated by reference to the 2015 version. 
3. 
Edit commercial feed definition Part 2.3. for clarity. 
4. 
Add Part 4.1.4.11.6. to specify a labeling exemption to allow manufacturers of wild bird seed 
products to use a composition statement instead of a guaranteed analysis statement. 
5. 
Remove Section (5)(III) “In lieu of ingredient statement.” 
6. 
Remove “pet food” from Part 11.1.6. Adulterants 
7. 
Change the date in Part 15 and Part 16.2. for registrations and the due date for small package 
distribution reports and fees to December 31st. 
8. 
Correct typographical errors.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
27 
9. 
Reformat Rules to meet new rulemaking guidelines. 
Factual and Policy Issues: 
The factual and policy issues encountered in the proposal of these permanent Rules are as follows: 
1. 
The previous version of these Rules did not include the rulemaking authority under 35-60-102(2), 
C.R.S. 
2. 
Numerous changes to the AAFCO publication have occurred since the printing of the 2007 
version which is referenced in the Rules. This change will make our Rules more consistent with 
other states’ feed Rules 
3. 
Purchasers of wild bird seeds are generally more interested in the composition of the seed mix 
rather than nutritional guarantees. This voluntary change in labeling will allow manufacturers the 
option of using a composition statement to convey that information. 
4. 
The option of filing an ingredient list with the state in lieu of listing the ingredients on the label 
makes it more difficult for the public to know what is in the feed that they purchase. This option 
has not been exercised by feed manufacturers in Colorado in many years, 
5. 
Pet food adulterants are now covered in the Pet Food Rules (8 CCR 1202-7) and no longer 
needs to be addressed in this Rule. 
6. 
The Colorado Department of Agriculture license and registration expiration dates have been 
moved to the calendar year in order to consolidate licensing for the Department. 
7. 
These amendments incorporate changes as a result of the Department’s Regulatory Efficiency 
Review Process. 
17.6. 
Adopted February 10, 2016- Effective March 30, 2016 
The Commissioner's authority for the adoption of this permanent Rule amendment is set forth in Section 
35-60-109(1), C.R.S. 
The Purpose of this rulemaking is to: 
1. 
Add Part 3.1.9 to include the requirement of the date of manufacture, processing, packaging, or 
repackaging or a code that permits the determination of the date to be included in the label. 
Factual and Policy Basis 
The factual and policy issue pertaining to the adoption of this permanent Rule amendment is as follows: 
1. 
The date of manufacture, processing, packaging, or repackaging or a code that permits the 
determination of the date as required in Section 35-60-106(1)(g), C.R.S., is being added to the 
Rule so that the Rule will contain the complete requirements for labeling an animal feed product. 
17.7. 
Adopted November 9, 2016- Effective December 30, 2016 
The Commissioner's authority for the adoption of this permanent Rule amendment is set forth in § 35-60-
103(1), § 35-60-105(3)(a), and § 35-60-105(4), C.R.S. 
The Purpose of this rulemaking is to:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
28 
Change the date in Part 15 and Part 16.2 for registrations and the due date for small package distribution 
reports and fees to January 31st. 
Factual and Policy Basis 
The factual and policy issue pertaining to the adoption of this permanent Rule amendment is as follows: 
1. 
Currently, feed registrants have to log into the Department’s licensing system at separate times of 
the year to complete the registration and reporting process. This can be burdensome to 
registrants and be prone to mistakes. 
2. 
After consulting with industry stakeholders, the Department has proposed to synchronize all 
deadlines associated with the larger registration process to make the process more efficient for 
registrants. 
17.8. 
Adopted September 20, 2017 – Effective November 30, 2017 
Statutory Authority 
The Commissioner's authority for the adoption of this permanent Rule amendment is set forth in § 35-60-
109(1) C.R.S. 
Purpose 
The Purpose of this rulemaking is to update the references to the current publication of the Association of 
American Feed Control Officials; add “Neutral Detergent Fiber” to the list of nutrient guarantees; remove 
the required minimum zinc guarantee for Swine; add required minimum Acid Detergent Fiber and Neutral 
Detergent Fiber guarantees for Equines; add Quantity Statement requirements for clarity; and add 
requirements for guarantees of dietary starch and fructans. 
Factual and Policy Basis 
1. 
Numerous changes to the AAFCO Official publication have occurred since the printing of the 
2015 version which is referenced in the rules. The change to the 2017 version is reflected 
throughout the rule. Updating the rule to follow the 2017 AAFCO Model regulations will make our 
rules more consistent with other states’ feed rules. This is reflected by the changes to Part 4.1.4. 
Guarantees, Part 4.1.8 Quantity Statements, and Part 5.12. Guarantees for Dietary Starches. 
2. 
These amendments incorporate changes as a result of the department’s regulatory efficiency 
review process. 
17.9. 
Adopted October 14, 2020 – Effective December 15, 2020 
Statutory Authority 
The Commissioner’s authority for the adoption of this permanent Rule amendment is set forth in §35-60-
109(1) C.R.S. 
Purpose 
The purpose of this rulemaking is to update the language required by §24-4-103(12.5), C.R.S., to properly 
incorporate the AAFCO Official Publication, effective January 1, 2017, by reference, update the location 
where materials incorporated by reference are stored and may be viewed.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-6 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
29 
Factual and Policy Issues 
Section 24-4-103 (12.5), C.R.S., requires specific language to properly incorporate a publication by 
reference. This rulemaking ensures the rules meet those statutory requirements, and updates the current 
address for the Inspection and Consumer Services Division within the Department of Agriculture, which 
changed in October 2018. The Division of Inspection and Consumer Services relocated during October of 
2018. The current version of this rule lists the previous division address as the location where materials 
incorporated by reference are located and may be viewed. The purpose of this rulemaking is to update 
the Rule to include the new address where these materials will be stored and may be viewed. 
17.10. Adopted October 12, 2022 – Effective December 15, 2022 
Statutory Authority 
The Commissioner's authority for the adoption of this permanent Rule amendment is set forth in § 35-60-
109(1) C.R.S. 
Purpose 
The purpose of this rulemaking is to update the references to the 2022 publication of the Association of 
American Feed Control Officials. 
Factual and Policy Basis 
1. 
Numerous changes to the AAFCO Official publication have occurred since the printing of the 
2017 version which is currently referenced in the rules. The change to the 2022 version is 
reflected throughout the rule. Updating the rule to follow the 2022 AAFCO Model regulations will 
make our rules more consistent with other states’ feed rules. 
2. 
These amendments incorporate changes as a result of the department’s regulatory efficiency 
review process. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 12/30/2007. 
Entire rule eff. 03/30/2015. 
Parts 3, 17.6 eff. 03/30/2016. 
Parts 15, 16, 17.7 eff. 12/30/2016. 
Parts 2, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10, 17.8 eff. 11/30/2017. 
Rules 2.1, 13, 17.9 eff. 12/15/2020. 
Parts 2, 4, 7, 9, 10, 13, 17.10 eff. 12/15/2022.
