---
id: "8_CCR_1505-6"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "1"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=11769&fileName=8%20CCR%201505-6&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1505-6. 1

1 
DEPARTMENT OF STATE 
Secretary of State 
RULES CONCERNING CAMPAIGN AND POLITICAL FINANCE 
8 CCR 1505-6 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Rule 1. Definitions 
1.1 
“Administrative complaint” means a complaint alleging that one or more violations of Colo. Const. 
Article XXVIII, Article 45, or Article 46 of Title 1, C.R.S., such other constitutional or statutory 
provisions that are incorporated or referenced therein, or the rules has occurred and that is filed 
by the division, or its designee, with a hearing officer. 
1.2 
“Ballot measure” means ballot issue or ballot question. 
1.3 
“Business activities” for purposes of Colo. Const. Article XXVIII: 
1.3.1 
“Business activities” means providing goods or services that result in income or any other 
revenue-generating activity not expressly for political purposes. 
1.3.2 
“Cannot engage in business activities,” means that the articles of incorporation and 
bylaws, either expressly or implicitly, prohibit the corporation from engaging in any 
business activities. 
1.4 
“Committee” as used generally in these rules includes candidate committee, political committee, 
small donor committee, issue committee, small-scale issue committee, independent expenditure 
committee, political party committee, and political organization. 
1.5 
“Contribution” has the same meaning as set forth in Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Section 2(5)(a), 
and section 1-45-103(6), C.R.S. 
1.5.1 
A contribution does not include an endorsement of a candidate or an issue by any 
person, or include interest earned in an interest-bearing bank account, dividend income 
from invested committee funds, earned income from commercially reasonable 
transactions, or transfers of money within a political party. 
1.5.2 
Volunteer services 
(a) 
Time-based services volunteered by an individual are not considered a 
contribution if the individual receives no direct or indirect compensation for the 
time volunteered. 
(b) 
If an individual volunteers only a portion of his or her time-based services, the 
volunteered portion is not considered a contribution. 
(c) 
Any unpaid services that create a thing of value are not considered a 
contribution. If volunteer services yield a thing of value, “contribution” only 
includes the reasonable value of the materials involved, unless the value is de 
minimis. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
2 
1.5.3 
“Contribution in support of the candidacy” as outlined in Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, 
Section 2(2), includes all contributions given directly to, or expenditures or spending 
coordinated with, a candidate for a specific public office, including those to a person who 
maintains a candidate committee after an election cycle. 
1.6 
“Designated filing agent” means any natural person appointed by a committee who is responsible 
for timely filing campaign finance reports. 
1.7 
“Deputy secretary” means the person appointed by the Secretary of State as the deputy secretary 
of state pursuant to section 24-21-105, C.R.S., with authority under section 1-45-111.7, C.R.S., or 
such other person as may be designated by the deputy secretary of state as the deputy 
secretary’s designee under section 1-45-111.7(1)(b), C.R.S. 
1.8 
“Direct ballot measure expenditure” means a direct ballot issue expenditure or a direct ballot 
question expenditure. 
1.9 
“Direct spending”, as used in section 1-45-103(7.2), C.R.S., includes both a monetary and non-
monetary purchase, payment, distribution, loan, advance, deposit, monetary or non-monetary gift, 
contract, promise, or agreement to expend funds. 
1.10 
“Division” or “elections division” has the same meaning as in section 1-45-111.7(1)(c), C.R.S., 
which is commonly known as the Elections Division of the Colorado Department of State. 
1.11 
“Frequent filing schedule” means: 
1.11.1 For state and school district director candidates and committees, the filing schedule 
outlined in sections 1-45-108 (2)(a)(I)(B), (2)(a)(I)(C), (2)(a)(I)(D), and (2)(a)(I)(E), C.R.S.; 
1.11.2 For a county, municipal, and special district candidate or committee, the filing schedule 
outlined in section 1-45-108 (2)(a)(II), C.R.S.; 
1.11.3 For political committees, small donor committees, independent expenditure committees, 
and political organizations participating in a regular biennial school election, the filing 
schedule outlined in sections 1-45-108(2)(a)(I)(C), (2)(a)(I)(D), and (2)(a)(I)(E), C.R.S.; 
and 
1.11.4 For issue committees supporting or opposing a ballot measure that attempts access to or 
will appear on an upcoming ballot, the filing schedule outlined in sections 1-45-
108(1)(a)(I)(B), 1-45-108(2)(a)(I)(C), (2)(a)(I)(D), and (2)(a)(I)(E), C.R.S. 
1.12 
“Funding intermediary”, as used in section 1-45-103(12)(b)(II)(E), C.R.S., means acting as a 
pass-through for contributions earmarked for an issue committee. A person becomes an 
intermediary when they accept an earmarked contribution from one person and then make a 
contribution to an issue committee as directed. 
1.13 
“Independent expenditure committee” has the same meaning as set forth in section 1-45-
103(11.5), C.R.S. 
1.14 
“Infrequent filing schedule” means: 
1.14.1 For a state and school district director candidate or committee, the quarterly filing 
schedule outlined in section 1-45-108(2)(a)(I)(A), C.R.S.; 
1.14.2 For a county, municipal, or special district candidate or committee, the annual filing 
schedule outlined in section 1-45-108(2)(a)(II), C.R.S.; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
3 
1.14.3 For issue committees supporting or opposing a ballot measure that will not appear on an 
upcoming ballot, the filing schedule outlined in sections 1-45-108(2)(a)(I)(A) and (2)(a)(II) 
C.R.S. 
1.15 
“Initial complaint” means a complaint alleging that one or more violations of Colo. Const. Article 
XXVIII, Article 45 of Title 1, C.R.S., such other constitutional or statutory provisions that are 
incorporated or referenced therein, or the rules has occurred and that is filed by any person, 
including the division, with the division pursuant to section 1-45-111.7(2)(a) and (7), C.R.S. 
1.16 
“Issue committee” means a person or a group of people that meets both of the conditions in Colo. 
Const. Article XXVIII, Section 2(10)(a)(I) and 2(10)(a)(II). An “issue committee” does not include a 
married couple. 
1.17 
“Limited liability company” or “LLC” has the same meaning as set forth in section 1-45-103.7(8), 
C.R.S. 
1.18 
“Member”, as used in Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Sections 2(5)(b), 2(8)(b)(IV), and 2(14)(a) only, 
means a person who pays membership dues. 
1.19 
“Municipal campaign finance matter” as used in section 1-45-111.7(10), C.R.S., means any 
campaign finance matter exclusively related to a municipal campaign, including matters involving 
a candidate for a municipal office; a municipal ballot measure; and contributions or expenditures 
made by any person, committee, or group to support or oppose any candidate for municipal 
office, or municipal ballot measure. Notwithstanding home rule municipalities that have adopted 
their own campaign finance charter provisions, ordinances, rules or regulations, this definition 
applies to all municipalities. 
1.20 
“Non-public information” means confidential material in any form that is not available to the 
general public, including a non-public campaign plan, communications plan, campaign budget, 
specification of unmet and potentially unmet campaign needs, proposed or actual media buy, list 
or description of households or voters who will receive or have received materials under a mailing 
or other distribution program, polling or focus group results, or other proprietary material. “Non-
public information,” does not include communications dealing solely with candidate positions on 
legislative or policy issues. 
1.21 
“Organization”, as used in section 1-45-103(12)(b)(II), C.R.S., means a person other than a 
natural person or two or more natural persons that work together with a particular purpose. 
1.22 
“Per day” means “per calendar day” unless otherwise indicated. 
1.23 
“Per year” means “per calendar year” unless otherwise indicated. 
1.24 
“Political committee” has the same meaning as set forth in Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Section 
2(12), and does not include a married couple. 
1.25 
“Principal”, as used in section 1-45-105.5, C.R.S., means any person that employs, retains, 
engages, or uses, with or without compensation, a professional or volunteer lobbyist. A person 
serving as an officer, employee, member, shareholder, or partner of an organization or business 
entity that employs, retains, engages, or uses a lobbyist is not considered a principal. 
1.26 
“Public office” means any office voted for in this state at any election. “Public office” does not 
include the office of president or vice president of the United States, the office of senator or 
representative in the Congress of the United States, or any office within a political party.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
4 
1.27 
“Publicly announced an intention to seek election to public office or retention of a judicial office”, 
as set forth in Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Section 2(2), means: 
1.27.1 Registering a candidate committee; or 
1.27.2 Announcing an intention to seek public office or retention of a judicial office through: 
(a) 
A speech, advertisement, or other communication reported or appearing in public 
media; or 
(b) 
A statement made in any place accessible to the public; or 
(c) 
A statement made in a manner that a reasonable person would expect to 
become public. 
1.28 
“Registered agent”, as set forth in sections 1-45-108(3)(b) and 1-45-109(4)(b), C.R.S., is a natural 
person or candidate designated to receive mailings, to address concerns and questions regarding 
a committee, and is responsible for timely filing campaign finance reports. 
1.29 
“Respondent” means a person or entity who is the subject of a campaign and political finance 
complaint. 
1.30 
“Standalone candidate” means a candidate without a committee who does not accept 
contributions. 
1.31 
“Substantial evidence”, as used in these rules, means evidence that is probative, credible, and 
competent and of such weight as to be adequate for the division to accept a fact as true. This 
standard of proof requires a greater weight of evidence than that which is required for finding 
“probable cause”. 
1.32 
“Support or oppose”, for the purpose of determining if a person or group of persons is a political 
committee as defined by Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Section 2(12)(a), means that the person or 
group of persons that contributed or made an expenditure did so in coordination with the 
candidate or candidate committee. 
1.33 
“Transfer”, as used in section 1-45-107.5(14), C.R.S., means the disposition of or parting with 
funds by check, electronic transfer, or other means. It does not include payment to a vendor or 
payment of a contract for goods or services. 
Rule 2. Candidates and Candidate Committees 
2.1 
Standalone candidates 
2.1.1 
A standalone candidate need not register a candidate committee. 
2.1.2 
A standalone candidate must file disclosure reports for all reporting periods in which he or 
she makes expenditures. [Sections 1-45-108 and 1-45-109, C.R.S.] 
2.2 
Candidate committees 
2.2.1 
A candidate may serve as the candidate committee’s registered agent or appoint another 
natural person to be the registered agent. Only the registered agent, the designated filing 
agent, or the candidate may file the contribution and expenditure report.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
5 
2.2.2 
Once assigned a candidate committee must follow the frequent filing schedule for the 
remainder of the year, except as outlined in Rule 17.5. 
2.2.3 
A candidate committee may accept the contribution limit specified in Colo. Const. Article 
XXVIII, Section 3(1) and section 1-45-103.7(1.5), C.R.S. for the primary election even if 
the primary election is canceled under section 1-4-104.5(1), C.R.S. or the candidate is 
running unopposed. 
2.2.4 
Managing unexpended campaign contributions 
(a) 
A candidate committee’s ending balance on the report filed 35 days after the 
major election must reflect the committee’s unexpended balance and that total is 
reported as the beginning balance on the first report due in the next election 
cycle. The candidate committee’s beginning balance must reflect what amount is 
retained for use in a subsequent election cycle and what amount is retained for 
use as unexpended funds. 
(b) 
Candidates seeking re-election to the same office 
(1) 
A candidate committee may retain contributions to use in a subsequent 
election cycle for the same public office, in an amount not to exceed the 
political party contribution limit in Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Section 3(3) 
and section 1-45-103.7(1.5)(a)(III), C.R.S. (as adjusted by Rule 10.17). 
(2) 
If a candidate committee retains contributions to use in a subsequent 
election cycle for the same office, the amount retained counts toward the 
limit on contributions from a political party. 
(3) 
If a candidate committee retains contributions from a prior election cycle 
in excess of the political party contribution limit, the candidate committee 
may not use those funds for any subsequent election cycle but may 
retain them for use in accordance with section 1-45-106(1)(b), C.R.S., if 
applicable. The committee may also contribute the funds to a political 
party, donate the funds to a charitable organization recognized by the 
Internal Revenue Service, or return the funds to contributors. 
(c) 
Candidates seeking election to a different office 
(1) 
A candidate committee may transfer funds to a new candidate committee 
established by the same candidate for a different public office, subject to 
the political party contribution limit for the prior office sought. [Colo. 
Const. Article XXVIII, Section 3, and section 1-45-103.7(12)(b), C.R.S.] 
(A) 
Funds held in excess of the party limit must be disbursed before 
the new election cycle in accordance with section 1-45-106(5), 
C.R.S., and cannot be rolled over. 
(B) 
Funds previously designated as unexpended funds from a prior 
election cycle cannot be transferred to the new committee and 
must be disbursed as specified in section 1-45-106(1)(a) and (b), 
C.R.S. 
(2) 
Contributions from persons or committees made to the prior candidate 
committee do not apply toward the contribution limits for the new 
candidate committee.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
6 
(3) 
A candidate committee transferring funds to a candidate committee for a 
different office must terminate within ten days of registering the new 
candidate committee. 
(4) 
A candidate seeking election to a state, county, or local office may not 
transfer funds from a federal candidate committee to a Colorado 
candidate committee that is subject to the provisions of the Fair 
Campaign Practices Act. 
(d) 
Funds rolled over, up to the political party limit of a new candidate committee, 
from a candidate’s prior candidate committee will have the effect of offsetting 
how much the candidate may receive in party contributions during that election 
cycle by the amount of the rollover. 
2.2.5 
Disposition of debt in anticipation of committee termination 
(a) 
A candidate committee must report all contributions received during the election 
cycle and those contributions are subject to the contribution limit, regardless of 
debt carried over from a prior election cycle. 
(b) 
Financial obligations incurred by a candidate committee in an election cycle that 
are not paid within a commercially reasonable period of time, not to exceed one 
year after the close of that election cycle, are “contributions” from the person 
extending credit. 
2.3 
Candidate affidavits. A candidate required to file with the Secretary of State must file a candidate 
affidavit electronically using the Secretary of State’s online campaign finance filing system. 
[Sections 1-45-110(1) and 24-21-111, C.R.S.] 
2.4 
Personal financial disclosures 
2.4.1 
Filing of personal financial disclosures 
(a) 
A candidate who is not an incumbent need not file a personal financial disclosure 
statement if the candidate filed a full disclosure statement less than 90 days 
before filing a candidate affidavit. 
(b) 
If a candidate withdraws their candidacy by submitting appropriate 
documentation before filing the disclosure statement required in section 1-45-
110(2)(a), C.R.S., the candidate need not file a disclosure statement. Any 
delinquent filing fines that the candidate accrued before withdrawing may be 
waived by the appropriate filing office. 
(c) 
An incumbent must file full a personal financial disclosure statement annually. 
Personal financial disclosure statement update forms are no longer accepted. 
(d) 
An incumbent seeking re-election need not file a personal financial disclosure 
statement if the incumbent filed a full disclosure statement less than 30 days 
before filing a candidate affidavit. 
(e) 
Any personal financial disclosure statements filed by incumbents more than 30 
days before January 10th will not satisfy the requirement to file the annual 
disclosure statement.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
7 
(f) 
Personal financial disclosure statements must be amended within 30 days of a 
substantial change in interest. Amended personal financial disclosure statements 
must be made on the form provided by the Secretary of State. 
(g) 
All personal financial disclosure filings required under sections 1-45-110 and 24-
6-202, C.R.S., must be filed electronically by 11:59 p.m. MT on the due date and 
will be publicly available online. 
2.4.2 
Income and debt ranges for required disclosures: 
(a) 
Ranges for income from any individual source: 
(i) 
Less than $999; 
(ii) 
$1,000 to $9,999; 
(iii) 
$10,000 to $24,999; 
(iv) 
25,000 to $49,999: 
(v) 
$50,000 to $74,999; 
(vi) 
$75,000 to $99,999; 
(vii) 
$100,000 to $149,999; 
(viii) 
$150,000 to $199,999; 
(ix) 
$200,000 to $249,999; 
(x) 
$250,000 to $499,999; 
(xi) 
$500,000 to $749,999; 
(xii) 
$750,000 to $999,999; 
(xiii) 
$1,000,000 to $1,499,999; 
(xiv) 
$1,500,000 to $ 1,999,999; 
(xv) 
$2,000,000 to $4,999,999; and 
(xvi) 
Greater than $5,000,000. 
(b) 
Ranges of debt: 
(i) 
Less than $1,000; 
(ii) 
$1,000 to $9,999; 
(iii) 
$10,000 to $24,999; 
(iv) 
25,000 to $49,999; 
(v) 
$50,000 to $74,999;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
8 
(vi) 
$75,000 to $99,999; 
(vii) 
$100,000 to $149,999; 
(viii) 
$150,000 to $199,999; 
(ix) 
$200,000 to $249,999; 
(x) 
$250,000 to $499,999; 
(xi) 
$500,000 to $749,999; 
(xii) 
$750,000 to $999,999; 
(xvi) 
$1,000,000 to $1,499,000; 
(xvii) 
$1,500,000 to $1,999,999; and 
(xviii) 
Greater than $2,000,000. 
2.4.3 
Failure to file 
(a) 
Any person can file a complaint under section 1-45-111.7, C.R.S., concerning the 
completeness, accuracy, or timeliness of a candidate’s, including an incumbent 
who is also a candidate, personal financial disclosure filed in accordance with a 
candidate affidavit. 
(b) 
In the event a complaint concerning the completeness, accuracy, or timeliness of 
an incumbent’s personal financial disclosure is filed with the Department when 
such incumbent is not a candidate, the Department will transmit the complaint to 
the appropriate body for considering such complaints as is designated under 
section 24-6-202(8), C.R.S. The Department will notify both the complainant and 
the incumbent of the transfer of the complaint. Upon such transfer, the 
Department will take no further action on the complaint unless or until the public 
body that received the transfer refers the matter back to the Department. 
(c) 
If a complaint is filed under section 1-45-111.7, C.R.S., alleging that the 
candidate’s personal financial disclosure was inaccurate or an amended 
disclosure was not accurate or timely filed, the division may consider the 
following responses from the candidate, without limitation, in determining whether 
the personal financial disclosure or amendment meets statutory requirements: 
(1) 
Documentation refuting the allegation of inaccuracy or incompleteness, 
including without limitation, for example: 
(A) 
Federal tax returns; 
(B) 
Banking, investment, or other financial statements; 
(C) 
Deeds of trust or other property records; 
(D) 
A financial manager’s or auditor’s certified statement of the 
candidate’s financial holdings; or 
(E) 
Other independently verifiable documentary evidence; or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
9 
(2) 
A signed affirmation under penalty of perjury from the candidate attesting 
that the allegation of inaccuracy or incompleteness is not true and the 
substance of the personal financial disclosure, including amendments, is 
complete and accurate. 
(d) 
If there is evidence of willful behavior outlined in section 24-6-202(7), C.R.S., 
such complaint may be referred to the applicable law enforcement without 
prejudice to the division’s concurrent investigation of the matter and the pursuit of 
civil or administrative penalties independent of any criminal sanction. 
(e) 
If a person subject to a complaint related to a personal financial disclosure under 
section 1-45-110(2), C.R.S., meets the criteria of section 1-45-110(5), C.R.S., 
and is defeated or withdraws from the candidacy, that person will not be required 
to file, supplement, or correct a personal financial disclosure after the election but 
may still be subject to a complaint and potential monetary penalty. 
2.5 
For special district candidates and committees, election cycle means the period of time beginning 
thirty-one days following the special district election for the particular office and ending thirty days 
following the next special district election for that office. 
Rule 3. Political Committees and Small Donor Committees 
3.1 
A political committee or small donor committee may not make contributions to an issue committee 
or small-scale issue committee, except to the extent that a contribution is for the purchase of 
items such as event tickets, merchandise, or services. [Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Section 
2(12)(a)] 
3.2 
A political committee may change its registration to a small donor committee without terminating 
the political committee if it has never accepted contributions of more than $50 per natural person 
per year. 
3.3 
Only the following qualify as a contribution or expenditure made to “support or oppose” a 
candidate, as those terms are used in the definition of “political committee” in subsection (12) (a) 
of section 2 of article XXVIII of the Colorado Constitution: 
3.3.1 
Contribution to the candidate committee: must be a payment, loan, pledge, gift, or 
advance of money, guarantee of a loan, or the gift or loan of property, made by the 
political committee and given directly to the candidate committee for the purpose of 
promoting the candidate’s nomination, retention, recall, or election; or 
3.3.2 
Expenditure from the political committee: must be coordinated with a candidate 
committee or political party and be intended to: 
(a) 
Support that candidate’s nomination, retention, recall, or election; or 
(b) 
Oppose a competing candidate’s nomination, retention, recall, or election. 
3.4 
Where there is no coordination as described in Rule 3.3, and the aggregate amount of the 
expenditures is in excess of one thousand dollars, the entity is an independent expenditure 
committee rather than a political committee. If the person or group meets the registration 
requirements of an independent expenditure committee, it must register as an independent 
expenditure committee.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
10 
Rule 4. Issue Committees 
4.1 
An issue committee may support or oppose more than one ballot measure if the committee 
registration form states each measure, describes each measure, and states whether the 
committee supports or opposes the measure. 
[Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Section 2(10)(a)(I) and (2)(10)(a)(II)] 
4.2 
If an issue committee supports or opposes a ballot measure on an upcoming ballot, the issue 
committee must file on a frequent filing schedule. See Rule 17.2.3. 
4.3 
A statewide issue committee must file reports of contributions and expenditures for all of the 
activity that qualifies it as an issue committee under section 1-45-103(12), C.R.S. 
4.4 
Major purpose standard 
4.4.1 
For an organization supporting or opposing a non-statewide ballot measure, a major 
purpose of the organization as that phrase is used in Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Section 
2(10)(a), is determined based on the consideration of: 
(a) 
The organization’s specifically identified objectives in its organizational 
documents at the time it is established or as such documents are later amended; 
or 
(b) 
The organization’s demonstrated pattern of conduct, as reflected through the 
following non-exclusive set of factors, including: 
(1) 
The scope of the issues addressed in the organization’s print and 
electronic publications; 
(2) 
The length of time the organization had existed; 
(3) 
The organization’s original purpose; 
(4) 
The organization’s organizational structure; 
(5) 
The various issues in which the organization had been involved; and 
(6) 
The amount of money the organization had spent on the issue in 
question in relation to its annual budget. 
[Cerbo v. Protect Colo. Jobs, Inc., 240 P.3d 495, (Colo. App. 2010)] 
4.4.2 
For an organization supporting or opposing a statewide ballot measure, a major purpose 
as outlined in section 1-45-103(12)(b), C.R.S., is determined as follows: 
(a) 
The organization’s specifically identified objectives in its organizational 
documents at the time it is established or as such documents are later amended; 
or 
(b) 
The organization’s demonstrated pattern of conduct which is evidenced by its 
spending. Specifically, 
(1) 
During the current and two preceding years, did the organization:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
11 
(A) 
Make contributions to a single statewide issue committee or 
make direct ballot measure expenditures in support of or 
opposition to one statewide ballot measure that, combined, 
exceeded 20% of the organization’s total spending (in any 
location and for any reason) during the current and two 
preceding years; or 
(B) 
Make contributions to more than one statewide issue committee 
or make direct ballot measure expenditures in support of more 
than one statewide ballot measure that combined exceeded 30% 
of the organization’s total spending (in any location and for any 
reason) during the current and two preceding years; or 
(2) 
Does the organization have a pattern of conduct as acting as a funding 
intermediary by making earmarked contributions to an issue committee. 
4.4.3 
For campaign and political finance complaints involving whether the respondent is an 
organization that has a major purpose of supporting or opposing one or more ballot 
measures, a rebuttable presumption that the organization met the standard for having a 
major purpose under section 1-45-103(12)(b), C.R.S., is created if: 
(a) 
A campaign and political finance complaint has been filed and the division initially 
determines that the complaint alleges a potential violation in which the 
respondent may have a major purpose of supporting or opposing one or more 
ballot measures; and 
(b) 
The respondent fails to provide substantial evidence, as defined in Rule 1.31, 
that they have not met the major purpose standard. 
4.4.4 
This presumption will be considered sufficient information to support the filing of an 
administrative complaint with a hearing officer under section 1-45-111.7(5), C.R.S. The 
presumption of meeting the major purpose standard can be rebutted by the respondent 
during the administrative hearing process. The presumption of meeting the major 
purpose standard no longer applies once the respondent has appeared and answered an 
administrative complaint in a hearing before a hearing officer. See 8 CCR 1505-3, Rule 3, 
for additional information regarding the administrative hearing process. 
4.5 
Termination. An issue committee may file a termination report at any time if the following 
conditions are met: 
4.5.1 
The committee no longer has a major purpose of supporting or opposing a ballot 
measure and no longer intends to accept or make contributions or expenditures to 
support or oppose a ballot measure; and 
4.5.2 
The committee's TRACER account reflects no cash on hand and no outstanding debts, 
obligations, or penalties. 
4.6 
Small-scale issue committees 
4.6.1 
A small-scale issue committee may support or oppose more than one ballot measure if 
the committee registration form states each measure, describes each measure, and 
states whether the committee supports or opposes the measure. 
[Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Section 2(10)(a)(I) and (2)(10)(a)(II)]

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
12 
4.6.2 
The notification required by section 1-45-108(1.5)(c)(III), C.R.S. must be submitted on the 
form provided by the Secretary of State. 
4.6.3 
The disclosure report required by section 1-45-108(1.5)(c)(I), C.R.S., must be filed with 
the appropriate officer within five calendar days after notification to the appropriate officer 
that the small-scale issue committee qualifies as an issue committee under section 1-45-
108(1.5)(c)(III), C.R.S. 
4.6.4 
Upon conversion of a small-scale issue committee to an issue committee, the issue 
committee’s first report of contributions and expenditures must reflect the small-scale 
issue committee’s funds on hand as a beginning balance. 
4.6.5 
A small-scale issue committee may terminate by filing an affirmation indicating the 
committee has no outstanding debts or obligations and wishes to terminate. 
4.6.6 
A small-scale issue committee required to register under section 1-45-108(1.5), C.R.S. 
may register and report as an issue committee at any time. 
4.7 
For issue committees and small-scale issue committees, the election cycle is a calendar year, 
beginning January 1 and ending December 31. This rule does not apply to issue committees 
formed to support or oppose a recall. 
Rule 5. Independent Expenditures and Independent Expenditure Committees 
5.1 
An independent expenditure committee must report donations over $20 given for the purpose of 
making an independent expenditure. 
5.1.1 
An independent expenditure committee must itemize donations of $250 or more per year 
given for the purpose of making an independent expenditure and include the name and 
address of the donor. 
5.1.2 
Except for a committee exercising its right to cure under section 1-45-111.7(4), C.R.S., if 
the committee is unable to gather the information required by section 1-45-107.5(4)(b)(II), 
or (III), C.R.S., within 30 days after receipt of the donation, the committee must return the 
donation to the donor no later than the 31st day after receipt. 
5.1.3 
An independent expenditure committee must itemize independent expenditures made in 
an aggregate amount of $1,000 in any one calendar year and include the information 
required by section 1-45-107.5, C.R.S. 
5.1.4 
An independent expenditure committee must list all expenditures of $250 or more during 
a reporting period, including the name and address of payees. The committee may report 
any disbursement not defined as an expenditure to the appropriate officer. 
5.1.5 
An independent expenditure committee must list individual expenditures in amounts of 
less than $250 that aggregate to total of $250 or more to the same payee during the 
reporting period. 
5.1.6 
An independent expenditure committee may report all other expenditures of less than 
$250 during a reporting period, in total, as non-itemized expenditures.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
13 
5.2 
An independent expenditure committee may not coordinate its campaign-related expenditures 
with a candidate, candidate committee, or political party. Nothing in these rules limits joint 
fundraising efforts or the transfer of funds raised through joint fundraising efforts by an 
independent expenditure committee or other committee as long as each committee pays its 
allocated share of joint fundraising expenses and no committee participating in the joint 
fundraising activity receives more than its allocated share of funds raised in accordance with 
applicable contribution limits. 
Rule 6. Political Parties 
6.1 
The appropriate filing officer for a state or county political party is the Secretary of State. [Section 
1-45-108(1)(a)(I), C.R.S.] 
6.2 
Transfers of money within a party 
6.2.1 
A party may transfer money from one level of the organization to another without limit. 
6.2.2 
The party must disclose transfers as “other income” in accordance with Rule 10.15. 
6.3 
Home rule jurisdictions 
6.3.1 
A political party in a home rule jurisdiction that maintains a separate account in 
accordance with Rule 14.3 may not include contributions to, or expenditures from that 
separate account in reports filed with the Secretary of State. 
6.3.2 
If a political party receives contributions into a separate account in accordance with Rule 
14.3, the party may not transfer funds from that account to other county parties or to a 
state party. 
Rule 7. Federal PACs and 527 Political Organizations 
7.1 
Federal PACs 
7.1.1 
A Federal PAC that qualifies as a political committee under Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, 
section 2(12), must register with the Secretary of State’s office as a state political 
committee and follow all requirements for state political committees; except that a 
Federal PAC is not required to form a separate bank account for the state political 
committee so long as the funds used for the state political committee can be separately 
identified. Nothing in this rule requires a Federal PAC to observe Colorado requirements 
for contributions, expenditures, or other campaign finance activity for federal elections or 
elections in states other than Colorado. 
7.2 
Political organizations. 
7.2.1 
A political organization must file on the frequent filing schedule for a political committee in 
an even-numbered year, and on the infrequent filing schedule in an odd-numbered year, 
according to the filing schedules set forth in section 1-45-108(2), C.R.S. 
7.2.2 
A political organization that receives no contributions and spends less than $20 during a 
reporting period is not required to file a disclosure report for that reporting period. 
[Section 1-45-108.5(1)(b), C.R.S.] 
7.2.3 
A political organization must file all disclosure reports required by section 1-45-108.5, 
C.R.S., with the appropriate filing officer. For the purposes of this rule, the appropriate 
filing officer is the same for political organizations as for political committees.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
14 
Rule 8. Registering a Committee 
8.1 
The committee registration must include the purpose or nature of interest of the committee or 
party. 
8.1.1 
A candidate committee must identify the name of the candidate. 
8.1.2 
A political committee, independent expenditure committee, small donor committee, or 
political organization must identify the types of candidates it supports or opposes, and the 
offices they seek and, as applicable, public policy position(s). 
8.1.3 
An issue committee or small-scale issue committee must identify the ballot measure it will 
support or oppose, if known. If particular ballot measures are not known, the issue 
committee or small-scale issue committee must identify the policy position it will support 
or oppose. 
Rule 9. Registered Agents 
9.1 
The registered agent or a designated filing agent for any committee must sign the committee’s 
registration form and all disclosure reports. For registration forms and reports filed by a candidate 
or candidate committee, the candidate must sign. For purposes of this requirement, an electronic 
login will fulfill the signature requirement. 
9.2 
Resignation of the registered agent 
9.2.1 
A committee may assign a new registered agent by filing an amended committee 
registration. For a candidate committee, upon resignation of the registered agent the 
candidate becomes the registered agent until a new agent is assigned. For all other 
committees, the registered agent’s name remains on file until the committee assigns a 
new registered agent. 
9.2.2 
A committee must file an amended committee registration form within ten days after the 
resignation of a registered agent or the appointment of a new registered agent. A 
committee must have an active registered agent at all times. [Section 1-45-108(3)(b), 
C.R.S.; Rule 12.1] 
Rule 10. 
Managing Contributions and Expenditures 
10.1 
Unexpended campaign contributions. 
10.1.1 For purposes of section 1-45-106(1), C.R.S., contributions to a candidate committee 
become unexpended campaign contributions at the earliest of the following: 
(a) 
The end of the election cycle; or 
(b) 
When the candidate withdraws from the political race and intends to terminate his 
or her candidate committee. 
10.1.2 For purposes of section 1-45-106(3), C.R.S., contributions to an issue committee become 
unexpended contributions at the end of the election cycle in which the committee 
supported or opposed a ballot measure, or one that attempted access to the ballot. 
Funds do not become unexpended contributions if the issue committee supports or 
opposes, or intends to support or oppose, another ballot measure or measures.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
15 
10.1.3 Unexpended contributions may not be used for personal purposes except to reimburse a 
candidate or incumbent for reasonable and necessary expenses for the care of a child or 
a dependent as allowed under sections 1-45-103.7(6.5) and 1-45-106(1)(b)(VI), C.R.S. 
10.2 
Except for independent expenditure committees and small-scale issue committees, committees 
must report contributions as follows: 
10.2.1 Committees must individually list all contributions of $20 or more received during a 
reporting period, including names and addresses of the contributors. If a contributor gives 
$20 or more in the aggregate during the reporting period, the committee must individually 
list the contributor on the report, regardless of the amount of each contribution. [Section 
1-45-108(1), C.R.S.] 
10.2.2 A committee may report all other receipts and contributions less than $20 in total as non-
itemized contributions for the reporting period, except for contributions from an LLC. A 
committee must itemize all contributions from an LLC, regardless of amount. [Section 1-
45-103.7(5)(d), C.R.S.] 
10.2.3 Disclosure of occupation and employer 
(a) 
The requirement to disclose a contributor’s or donor’s occupation and employer 
applies only to any one-time contribution or donation, and not to the person’s 
aggregate contributions or donations. 
(b) 
Except for a committee exercising its right to cure under section 1-45-111.7(4), 
C.R.S., if a committee does not report required occupation and employer 
information, and the committee is unable to gather the information within 30 days 
after receipt of the contribution, the committee must return the contribution to the 
contributor no later than the 31st day after receipt. 
(c) 
The requirement under section 1-45-108, C.R.S., to disclose a contributor’s or 
donor’s occupation and employer applies only to a contributor who is a natural 
person. 
10.3 
Except for independent expenditure committees and small-scale issue committees, committees 
must report expenditures as follows: 
10.3.1 A committee must list all expenditures of $20 or more during a reporting period, including 
the name and address of payees. The committee may report any disbursement not 
defined as an expenditure to the appropriate officer. 
10.3.2 A committee must list individual expenditures in amounts less than $20 that aggregate to 
total $20 or more to the same payee during the reporting period. 
10.3.3 A committee may report all other expenditures less than $20 during a reporting period in 
total as non-itemized expenditures. 
[Section 1-45-108(1), C.R.S.] 
10.4 
Date of a contribution or donation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
16 
10.4.1 A contribution or donation by check or money order is accepted, at the earliest on the 
date that it is received or at the latest, on the date that the contribution or donation is 
deposited into the committee account. If a committee receives a donation by check or 
money order at least five business days before the end of a reporting period, the 
committee must deposit the check or money order or return to the contributor before that 
reporting period closes. 
10.4.2 A cash contribution or donation is accepted the date the cash is in the committee’s 
possession. 
10.4.3 A contribution or donation made by credit card, PayPal, or other payment intermediary 
service is accepted on the date the contributor or donor authorizes the payment, or if 
unknown, on the date the payment intermediary service electronically transfers the 
contribution or donation. 
10.4.4 A non-monetary or in-kind contribution or donation is accepted on the date the committee 
takes possession of the item, or has the right to possess or use the item. 
10.4.5 For purposes of section 1-45-105.5, C.R.S., concerning contributions by lobbyists to 
certain state officers and candidates when legislation is under consideration, a 
contribution is accepted when the pledge is made or possession of the check is 
transferred to any person not under the control of the issuer, whichever is sooner. 
10.4.6 If a committee accepts a contribution or donation from a joint account and the contributor 
or donor is not specified, the committee may apportion the entire amount to the joint 
account who signed the check or determine how to apportion the contribution or donation 
between joint account holders. If the committee apportions a contribution or donation 
between joint account holders, the committee must notify each joint account holder of the 
apportionment. 
10.4.7 Any other contribution or donation is accepted on the date its received. 
10.5 
A committee must maintain all financial records for 180 days after any general election cycle in 
which the committee received contributions. If a complaint is filed against the committee, the 
committee must maintain financial records until final disposition of the complaint and any 
consequent litigation. The committee must maintain covered organization and LLC affirmations 
for one year after the end of the election cycle. 
10.6 
If a committee receives a contribution in excess of the contribution limit, the committee must 
return the excess to the contributor within ten days of receipt or within three days after receiving 
notification from the appropriate filing office, whichever is sooner, and will not be held liable. 
10.7 
A committee may accept contributions in cryptocurrency, up to the acceptable limit for a cash or 
coin contribution. The amount of the contribution is the value of the cryptocurrency at the time of 
the contribution. The committee must report any gain or loss after the contribution as other 
income or receipts. 
10.8 
Contributions by anonymous contributor 
10.8.1 A committee may not keep anonymous contributions of $20 or more. 
10.8.2 Anonymous contributions are contributions where the identity of the contributor or other 
required reporting information is unknown.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
17 
10.8.3 A committee must donate an anonymous contribution of $20 or more to a charitable 
organization recognized by the Internal Revenue Service, or transmit the contribution to 
the State Treasurer within 30 days after receipt. 
10.9 
Reporting contributions and loans: 
10.9.1 If a candidate does not accept voluntary spending limits, the candidate may make 
unlimited contributions from his or her personal funds to his or her candidate committee. 
10.9.2 A candidate who accepts voluntary spending limits may make a loan to his or her 
candidate committee in any amount, so long as the unpaid balance of any loan does not 
exceed the contribution limit in Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Sections 3 and 4(2) at any 
time. 
10.10 
If all candidates who declined voluntary spending limits have withdrawn from the race or lost in 
the primary election, a candidate who accepted voluntary spending limits may not continue to 
accept contributions double the standard limits. 
10.11 
Cost-sharing by candidates 
10.11.1 Each candidate, standalone candidate, and candidate committee that shares any cost or 
expense including brochures, communications, advertisements, office space, or other 
overhead must pay its proportionate share of the cost within 30 days of the date the cost 
was incurred. The committee or candidate that made the expense must report the entire 
amount as an expenditure. The committee or candidate reimbursing for the expense 
must reimburse within 30 days and report their portion of the expense as an expenditure, 
and the reimbursed committee or candidate must report reimbursement payments as a 
returned expenditure. 
10.11.2 A committee nor candidate need not report discounts resulting from shared expenses as 
contributions given by a vendor or others on a purchase solely because more than one 
committee is cost-sharing with another committee. 
10.11.3 If a “paid for by” disclaimer is needed for any shared communication, the names of all of 
the committees or candidates must be included on the communication. 
10.12 
Reimbursement of expenditures – payments by credit card or payment intermediary service 
10.12.1 A committee must report a reimbursement of $20 or more and include the purpose, 
payee, and amount of the reimbursement. 
10.12.2 For the purpose of reporting, simply disclosing that a payment was made to a credit card 
company or a payment intermediary service such as PayPal is not adequate. The 
committee must itemize all payments of $20 or more made with a credit card or through a 
payment intermediary service, including the name and address of the original payee, 
amount, original date of expenditure, and purpose of the expenditure. 
10.12.3 An immediate reimbursement for committee expenses is not a contribution. 
[Section 1-45-108(1)(e), C.R.S.] 
10.13 
Loans to a candidate committee 
10.13.1 Financial institution loans to a candidate committee under Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, 
Section 3(8) may not be forgiven.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
18 
10.13.2 Candidate loans to his or her committee 
(a) 
A candidate may make an interest-free loan to his or her candidate committee. 
Any foregone interest is not a contribution to the committee. 
(b) 
A committee must report the interest repaid for a loan made under Colo. Const. 
Article XXVIII, Section 3(8) as an expenditure. 
(c) 
A candidate may forgive a loan he or she loaned to his or her own committee. 
The amount of unpaid debt forgiven by the candidate remains a contribution and 
is not considered a returned contribution. 
10.14 
A committee may deposit committee money in more than one financial institution. [Colo. Const. 
Article XXVIII, Section 3(9)] 
10.15 
Other income 
10.15.1 A committee may invest its funds in any type of account or instrument of a government 
regulated financial institution. 
10.15.2 A committee must disclose all interest or dividends earned on its bank account, earned 
income from a commercially reasonable transaction, or transfers of money within a 
political party as other income on the committee’s reports. These other receipts are not 
subject to contribution limits. 
10.16 
Disclosure of contributions by limited liability companies (LLCs) [Section 1-45-103.7(5), (6), (7), 
and (8), C.R.S.] 
10.16.1 The affirmation must include the occupation and employer of any member attributed with 
contributing $100 or more. 
10.16.2 The affirmation provided by an LLC under section 1-45-103.7, C.R.S., must include the 
name and address of each LLC member, the amount attributed to each member, and, if 
more than $100 is attributed to a member, the occupation and employer of that member. 
When reporting the contribution, the committee must select the “LLC” contributor type 
and include the name and address of the LLC, the name and address of each member, 
and the amount attributed to each member. Attribution is determined by the pro-rata 
share of ownership. 
10.16.3 A committee must return any contribution received from an LLC that does not comply 
with the affirmation requirements in section 1-45-103.7, C.R.S., and this rule to the 
contributor within 30 days. 
10.16.4 A committee must itemize each contribution received from an LLC on disclosure reports, 
regardless of the dollar amount. 
10.16.5 Any contribution from an LLC counts against contribution limits for both the individual 
members to whom the contribution is attributed and the LLC itself. [Colo. Const. Article 
XXVIII, Section 3(9)]. An LLC may not make a contribution that exceeds the limit for a 
“person” established in Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Section 3, as adjusted by Rule 10, 
regardless of the amount attributed to each individual member. 
10.17 
Current adjusted limits

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
19 
10.17.1 Adjusted limits made in the first quarter of 2023 and effective until the next adjustment is 
made in 2027: 
(a) 
There is no adjustment to the contribution limits on individual donations to small 
donor committees outlined in Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Section 2(14). 
(b) 
The aggregate limits on contributions from any person for a primary or a general 
election, described in Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Section 3(1), are adjusted as 
follows: 
(1) 
$725 to any one: 
(A) 
Governor candidate committee for the primary election, and 
Governor and Lieutenant Governor candidate committee, as joint 
candidates under section 1-1-104, C.R.S., or any successor 
section, for the general election; 
(B) 
Secretary of State, State Treasurer, or Attorney General 
candidate committee. 
(2) 
$225 to any one State Senate, State House of Representatives, State 
Board of Education, Regent of the University of Colorado, or any District 
Attorney candidate committee. 
(c) 
The aggregate limits on contributions from a small donor committee for a primary 
or a general election, described in Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Section 3(2), are 
adjusted as follows: 
(1) 
$7,825 to any one: 
(A) 
Governor candidate committee for the primary election, and 
Governor and Lieutenant Governor candidate committee, as joint 
candidates under section 1-1-104, C.R.S., or any successor 
section, for the general election; 
(B) 
Secretary of State, State Treasurer, or Attorney General 
candidate committee; and 
(2) 
$3,100 to any one State Senate, State House of Representatives, State 
Board of Education, Regent of the University of Colorado, or any District 
Attorney candidate committee. 
(d) 
The aggregate limits on contributions from any person to a political party, 
described in Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Section 3(3)(a), are adjusted as follows: 
(1) 
$4,675 per year at the state, county, district, and local level combined; 
and 
(2) 
Of such, no more than $3,875 at the state level. 
(e) 
The aggregate limits on contributions from a small donor committee to a political 
party, described in Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Section 3(3)(b), are adjusted as 
follows:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
20 
(1) 
$23,600 per year at the state, county, district, and local level combined; 
and 
(2) 
Of such, no more than $19,650 at the state level. 
(f) 
The aggregate limits on pro-rata contributions or dues made to political 
committees, described in Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Section 3(5), are adjusted 
to $725 per house of representatives election cycle. 
(g) 
The aggregate limits on contributions to a county candidate as defined in section 
1-45-103.7(1.5)(a)(I), C.R.S. are as follows: 
(1) 
$1,425 for a primary or a general election from any person other than a 
small donor committee or a political party; 
(2) 
$14,400 for a primary or a general election from any small donor 
committee; and 
(3) 
$25,475 for the election cycle from a political party. 
(h) 
The aggregate limits on contributions to candidates for school district director are 
as follows: 
(1) 
$2,500 per election cycle from any person other than a small donor 
committee; and 
(2) 
$25,000 per election cycle from any small donor committee. 
(i) 
This table contains the contribution limits listed in subsections (a)-(h). 
 
Recipient: 
Contributor: 
Natural Person  Person, other 
than a natural 
person  
Political 
committee  
Small donor 
committee  
Political party  
Political committee 
$725 per 
election cycle  
$725 per 
election cycle  
$725 per 
election cycle  
$725 per 
election cycle  
$725 per 
election cycle  
Small donor committee $50 per year  
Prohibited  
Prohibited  
Prohibited  
Prohibited  
Governor (governor & 
lt. governor) 
$725 per 
election cycle*  
$725 per 
election cycle*  
$725 per 
election cycle*  
$7,825 per 
election cycle*  
$789,060 per 
election cycle  
Secretary of state, 
state treasurer, 
attorney general 
$725 per 
election cycle*  
$725 per 
election cycle*  
$725 per 
election cycle*  
$7,825 per 
election cycle*  
$157,805 per 
election cycle  
State senate 
$225 per 
election cycle*  
$225 per 
election cycle*  
$225 per 
election cycle*  
$3,100 per 
election cycle*  
$28,395 per 
election cycle  
State house of 
representatives, state 
board of education, 
regent of the 
University of Colorado, 
district attorney 
$225 per 
election cycle*  
$225 per 
election cycle*  
$225 per 
election cycle*  
$3,100 per 
election cycle*  
$20,500 per 
election cycle

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
21 
Recipient: 
Contributor: 
Natural Person  Person, other 
than a natural 
person  
Political 
committee  
Small donor 
committee  
Political party  
Political party 
$4,675 ($3,875 
at the state 
level) per year  
$4,675 
($3,875 at the 
state level) per 
year  
$4,675 
($3,875 at the 
state level) per 
year  
$23,600 
($19,650 at the 
state level) per 
year  
Transfers within 
a party may be 
made without 
limitation.  
County candidate 
$1,425 per 
election cycle*  
$1,425 per 
election cycle*  
$1,425 per 
election cycle*  
$14,400 per 
election cycle*  
$25,475 per 
election cycle  
School district director $2,500 per 
election cycle  
$2,500 per 
election cycle  
$2,500 per 
election cycle  
$25,000 per 
election cycle  
$2,500 per 
election cycle  
* A candidate may accept the contribution limit for both the primary election and the general election. 
(j) 
The voluntary spending limits for a candidate described in Colo. Const. Article 
XXVIII, Section 4(1), are adjusted as follows: 
(1) 
The spending limit for Governor, and Governor and Lieutenant Governor 
as joint candidates under section 1-1-104, C.R.S., or any successor 
section is adjusted to $3,945,300. 
(2) 
The spending limit for a candidate for Secretary of State, Attorney 
General, or Treasurer is adjusted to $789,025. 
(3) 
The spending limit for a candidate for State Senate is adjusted to 
$141,975. 
(4) 
The spending limit for a candidate for State House of Representatives, 
State Board of Education, Regent of the University of Colorado, or any 
District Attorney is adjusted to $102,500. 
 
Candidate 
Voluntary Spending Limit 
Governor, and Governor and Lieutenant Governor as joint 
candidates 
$3,945,300 
Secretary of State, Attorney General, or State Treasurer 
$789,025 
State Senate 
$141,975 
State House of Representatives, State Board of Education, Regent 
of the University of Colorado, or District Attorney 
$102,500 
10.18 
Major Contributor Reports. 
10.18.1 Municipal committees required to file major contributor reports under section 1-45-
108(2.5), C.R.S. must file with the municipal clerk. 
10.18.2 Small-scale issue committees are not required to file major contributor reports under 
section 1-45-108(2.5), C.R.S. 
10.19 
Reporting a direct ballot measure expenditure 
10.19.1 The disclosure report required by section 1-45-108(1)(a)(VI), C.R.S. 
(a) 
The aggregate of $5,000 in direct ballot measure expenditures can be met with 
expenditures of any amount.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
22 
(b) 
Once a person makes $5,000 in direct ballot measure expenditures in the 
aggregate within a calendar year, each additional expenditure of $1,000 or more 
must be reported. 
(c) 
A single direct ballot measure expenditure of less than $1,000 does not need to 
be reported. 
(d) 
Direct ballot measure expenditure disclosure reports must be filed within 48 
hours of when the direct spending occurs or when a contractual agreement is 
made. 
(e) 
Expenditures by an issue committee are not direct ballot measure expenditures 
and should be reported in accordance with Rule 10.3 and section 1-45-108(1), 
C.R.S. 
10.19.2  Each direct ballot measure expenditure disclosure must include: 
(a) 
The name and address of the payor; 
(b) 
The name and address of payee; 
(c) 
The name of the original source of the funds, if the direct ballot measure 
expenditure was paid with earmarked funds; 
(d) 
The amount of the direct ballot measure expenditure; 
(e) 
The date of the direct ballot measure expenditure; 
(f) 
The purpose for which the direct ballot measure expenditure was made, including 
the ballot measure and whether the direct ballot measure expenditure was in 
support or opposition of the ballot measure; and 
(g) 
An affirmation signed by an authorized representative on a form provided by the 
Department or appropriate officer that the filer does not meet the definition of an 
issue committee and only used permissible sources for the expenditure. 
10.20 
Earmarked contributions 
10.20.1 A contribution will be considered earmarked if it includes or is accompanied by a direction 
or instruction which results in all or any part of a contribution or expenditure being made 
to, or expended on behalf of, a candidate, committee, or ballot measure. 
10.20.2 Disclosure reports of earmarked contributions must include the original source of the 
funds as well as conduits, funding intermediaries, or other persons involved in the 
transaction. 
10.20.3 Recipients of earmarked contributions must disclose the original source of the 
contribution and the person who made the contribution. 
Rule 11. 
Electioneering Communications 
11.1 
Any person who expends $1,000 or more per calendar year on electioneering communication or 
regular biennial school electioneering communication must include the method of communication 
on the electioneering report.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
23 
11.2 
Persons making electioneering communications or regular biennial school electioneering 
communications must maintain all financial records for 180 days after the general election or 
regular biennial school election, as applicable. If a complaint is filed against the person making 
electioneering communications or regular biennial school electioneering communications, the 
person must maintain financial records until final disposition of the complaint and any resulting 
litigation. 
11.3 
Electioneering communication reports must include the name of the candidate(s) unambiguously 
referred to in the electioneering communication or regular biennial school electioneering 
communication. [Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Section 2(7)(a)(I)] 
11.4 
A committee need not file electioneering communication reports separate from regularly filed 
disclosure reports if the expenditure or spending subject to Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Section 6 
is identified as an electioneering communication or regular biennial school electioneering 
communication. The disclosure of electioneering communication expenditures or spending on a 
regularly filed report must include the name of the candidate(s) referred to in the communication. 
Rule 12. 
Changing or Closing a Committee 
12.1 
A committee must report any change to its committee registration statement to the appropriate 
filing officer within ten days. [Section 1-45-108(3), C.R.S.] 
12.2 
A candidate seeking a different public office must terminate his or her existing candidate 
committee and register a new candidate committee within ten days. See Rule 2.2. 
12.3 
A committee may file a termination report terminating the committee if the following conditions are 
met: 
12.3.1 The committee no longer intends to receive contributions or make expenditures; 
12.3.2 The committee’s TRACER account has a zero balance, indicating it has no cash or 
assets on hand and there are no outstanding debts, penalties, or obligations; 
12.3.3 A committee may dispose of assets remaining in its possession before termination in the 
same manner as allowed for unexpended contributions; 
12.3.4 The committee has no pending campaign and political finance complaints or related 
proceedings pending before the elections division or any court; and 
12.3.5 In addition to the requirements outlined in this Rule 12.3, candidate committees must 
terminate within: 
(a) 
One year after the election, if the candidate was not elected; or 
(b) 
One year after an elected candidate leaves office. 
[Sections 1-45-103.7(12)(a)(I) and (II), C.R.S.] 
12.4 
Administrative committee terminations. The appropriate officer may terminate a standalone 
candidate or committee if the standalone candidate or committee fails to file any required reports 
for six consecutive reporting periods or 18 months, whichever is shorter, or files “zero” reports or 
reports with no activity for the same time period in accordance with the procedures set out in the 
State Administrative Procedure Act. [Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Section 2(3), and section 24-4-
105, C.R.S.]

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
24 
12.5 
If the appropriate filing office receives verifiable information in writing that the candidate is 
deceased, the appropriate filing office may immediately terminate the candidate’s candidate 
committee. 
Rule 13. 
Corporations and Membership Organizations 
13.1 
A corporation or labor organization may establish a political committee, an independent 
expenditure committee, and a small donor committee. Each committee is subject to the 
applicable individual contribution and expenditure limits for that committee. A corporation or labor 
organization may pay for the costs of establishing, administering, and soliciting funds from its own 
employees or members. [Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Sections 2(5)(b) and 2(14)(b)] 
13.2 
Transferring membership dues to a small donor committee, independent expenditure committee, 
and political committee. 
13.2.1 A membership organization transferring a portion of a member’s dues to a small donor 
committee, independent expenditure committee, or political committee must provide the 
respective committee with the member’s name, address, amount of dues transferred, and 
the date of the dues transfer. 
13.2.2 Each small donor committee, independent expenditure committee, and political 
committee must keep records of all contributions or donations received in the form of 
membership dues including the name, address, and amount of the dues transferred. 
[Section 1-45-108(1)(a)(I), C.R.S.] 
13.2.3 Each small donor committee and political committee must itemize and report the name 
and address of each person contributing $20 or more in a reporting period, including but 
not limited to contributions in the form of membership dues transferred by a membership 
organization to the committee. [Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Section 2(14)(a); section 1-
45-108(1)(a), C.R.S.] 
13.2.4 On each disclosure report, the candidate or registered agent of a committee must certify 
and declare, under penalty of perjury, that to the best of his or her knowledge or belief all 
contributions or donations received in a reporting period, including contributions or 
donations received in the form of membership dues transferred by a membership 
organization, are from permissible sources. [Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Section 3] 
Rule 14. 
Local Offices and Home Rule 
14.1 
The requirements of Colo. Const. Article XXVIII and of Article 45 of Title 1, C.R.S., do not apply to 
home rule counties or home rule municipalities that have adopted charters, ordinances, or 
resolutions that address any of the matters covered by Colo. Const. Article XXVIII or Article 45 of 
Title 1. Nothing precludes a home rule municipality from adopting or using Colo. Const. Article 
XXVIII and of Article 45 of Title 1, C.R.S., for their compliance and enforcement. 
14.2 
During the legislative session, a lobbyist may not contribute to a member of the General 
Assembly who is a candidate for any state or local office, including any office in a home rule 
municipality that has adopted charters, ordinances, or resolutions that address any of the matters 
covered by Colo. Const. Article XXVIII or Article 45 of Title 1. 
14.3 
A political party may establish a separate account for contributions and expenditures made by the 
party, for the purpose of supporting the party’s home rule county or municipal candidates. 
Contributions to and expenditures from such account do not count against party limits or reported 
under Colo. Const. Article XXVIII or Article 45 of Title 1, C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
25 
Rule 15. 
Recall Elections 
15.1 
The recall election cycle begins on the date the recall petition is approved for circulation by the 
designated election official and ends on the last day of the final reporting period following the date 
of the recall election as defined in Rule 15.2.2. 
15.1.1 If a recall petition is determined to be insufficient, the recall election cycle ends 25 days 
after the time for protest and final disposition of any protest or appeal of such 
determination. 
15.1.2 If a recall election is canceled for any other reason, the recall election cycle ends 25 days 
after the deadline for filing the recall election petition, or 25 days after the event that 
caused the designated election official to cancel the election, whichever is later. 
15.1.3 If a recall election is canceled, all committees that were participating in the recall election 
except small-scale issue committees must file a report five days after the end of the recall 
election cycle. The reporting period begins on the first day following the last day of the 
reporting period for the previous report. If there was no previous report, the reporting 
period begins on the date the committee registered. The reporting period ends on the last 
day of the election cycle. 
15.2 
Except for issue committees and small-scale issue committees, committees participating in a 
recall election must file reports on the fifth day of every month until disclosure under section 1-45-
108(2.7), C.R.S. and Rule 15.5 begins. 
15.2.1 The initial reporting period for committees formed for the purpose of the recall election 
begins on the date the committee registers with the appropriate filing office. 
15.2.2 Subsequent reporting periods for a committee participating in the recall election begin on 
the first day of each month and end on the last day of that month, except that the final 
reporting period ends 25 days following the date the recall election was held. 
15.2.3 All other committees whose original formation was not for the purpose of supporting or 
opposing a recall measure must notify the appropriate officer within ten days after 
deciding to support or oppose a recall or support or oppose a successor candidate. Once 
notified, the appropriate officer will place the committee on the recall filing calendar until 
the end of the recall election cycle. 
15.3 
The incumbent in a recall election is not a candidate for the successor election and may open an 
issue committee or small-scale issue committee to oppose the recall. The incumbent may not use 
his or her candidate committee to oppose the recall. 
15.4 
The aggregate contribution limits specified for a general election in Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, 
Section 3, as adjusted by these Rules, apply to the recall election with respect to each successor 
candidate. 
15.5 
A committee supporting or opposing a candidate in a recall election must file disclosure reports: 
15.5.1 14 days before the recall election; 
15.5.2 Seven days before the recall election; and 
15.5.3 30 days after the recall election. 
[Section 1-45-108 (2.7), C.R.S.]

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
26 
15.6 
Under Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Section 2(3), a successor candidate must terminate any other 
active candidate committee for the candidate and open a new candidate committee for the 
purpose of running in the recall election. Transfer of funds from a previously active candidate 
committee are subject to Rule 2.2.4. 
15.7 
An issue committee remaining open at the end of the recall election cycle must file reports 
according to the infrequent filing schedule in Rule 17.2.3(b). 
Rule 16. 
Special Districts 
16.1 
A special district designated election official or director candidate must file a copy of the self-
nomination and acceptance form described in Rule 16.2 with the Secretary of State no later than 
60 days before the special district election. This rule does not apply if the special district cancels 
the election. 
16.2 
Self-nomination and acceptance forms and affidavits of intent to be a write-in candidate. 
16.2.1 The self-nomination and acceptance form and letter, and affidavits of intent to be a write-
in candidate must include the following information: 
(a) 
The candidate’s full name; 
(b) 
The name of the special district and the special district director office sought; 
(c) 
The date of the election; 
(d) 
The county in which the district court that authorized the creation of the special 
district is located; 
(e) 
The candidate’s residence and mailing addresses; 
(f) 
The candidate’s telephone number; 
(g) 
The candidate’s email address; 
(h) 
The date on which the form, letter, or affidavit was filed by the candidate; 
(i) 
The candidate’s signature; and 
(j) 
The signature of a registered elector acting as a witness. 
[Sections 1-45-110, 1-13.5-303, C.R.S.] 
16.3 
A special district candidate is not required to file disclosure reports if: 
16.3.1 The special district candidate affidavit, the self-nomination and acceptance form or letter, 
or the affidavit of intent to be a write-in candidate contains a statement substantially 
stating, “I will not, in my campaign for this office, receive contributions or make 
expenditures exceeding $200 in the aggregate during the election cycle, however, if I do 
so, I will thereafter register and file all disclosure reports required under the Fair 
Campaign Practices Act;” and 
16.3.2 The candidate does not accept contributions or make expenditures exceeding $200 in the 
aggregate during the election cycle.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
27 
[Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Section 2(2) and section 1-45-108(1), C.R.S.] 
Rule 17. 
Filing Calendars and Reporting periods 
17.1 
A committee other than a political organization or small-scale issue committee must file a 
disclosure report for every reporting period, even if the committee has no activity to report during 
the reporting period. 
17.2 
Filing schedules. 
17.2.1 A candidate committee files on: 
(a) 
A frequent filing schedule during the year in which the office to which candidate 
seeks to be elected is up for election. 
(b) 
An infrequent filing schedule during any year in which the office to which 
candidate seeks to be elected is not up for election. 
(c) 
For purposes of this rule, the office to which the candidate seeks to be elected is 
the office named in the candidate’s most recent candidate affidavit. 
17.2.2 A political committee, small donor committee, political party, independent expenditure 
committee, or political organization files on: 
(a) 
A frequent filing schedule during any year in which a general election occurs and, 
if participating in a regular biennial school election, in any year in which a biennial 
school election occurs. 
(b) 
An infrequent filing schedule during any year in which no general election occurs, 
except if the committee is participating in a regular biennial school election. 
17.2.3 An issue committee files on: 
(a) 
A frequent filing schedule during any year in which an issue that the committee 
supports or opposes appears on, or seeks access to, the ballot. 
(b) 
An infrequent filing schedule during any year in which the committee does not 
support or oppose any issues appearing on, or which seek access to, any ballot. 
17.2.4 An issue committee must notify the appropriate filing office within ten days after deciding 
that it will support or oppose a ballot measure on an upcoming ballot. 
(a) 
Once an issue committee notifies the appropriate filing office of its active status 
under this Rule, the appropriate filing office will place the committee on a 
frequent filing schedule. 
(b) 
Once an issue committee has declared its committee filing status as frequent or 
infrequent in a particular year, the committee must follow the appropriate filing 
schedule for the remainder of that election cycle, except that an inactive 
committee may change its status to active at any time. 
17.3 
Report periods 
17.3.1 The reporting period for any report begins on the first day following the last day of the 
reporting period for the previous report. The reporting period for any report, except a

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
28 
quarterly report or post-election report, closes five calendar days before the date that the 
report is due. 
17.3.2 Quarterly reporting periods close on the last day of the month. The report is due on or 
before April 15th, July 15th, October 15th, and January 15th following each calendar 
quarter. If the filing deadline falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the filing 
deadline is the next business day. [Section 1-45-108(2)(a), C.R.S.] 
17.3.3 Monthly reports are due on the first calendar day of the following month. If the filing 
deadline falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, the filing deadline is the next 
business day. When the filing deadline for a monthly report approximates the filing 
deadline for a biweekly report, no separate monthly report must be filed, and the biweekly 
report serves as the monthly report. [Section 1-45-108(2)(a) and (c), C.R.S.] 
17.4 
Reports for former officeholders, persons not elected to office, and term-limited office holders 
17.4.1 Annual reporting 
(a) 
A candidate committee for a candidate not elected to office, who was formerly in 
office, or who is term-limited may submit a written request to file only an annual 
report for each calendar year. 
(1) 
Statewide and school district candidate committees must file an annual 
report not later than January 15th of the following year. 
(2) 
All other candidate committees must file an annual report on the first day 
of the month in which the anniversary of the major election occurs, in 
accordance with section 1-45-108(2)(a)(II), C.R.S. 
(b) 
A change in the balance of funds resulting solely from the accrual of interest or 
dividends to the account and/or the automatic deduction of periodic service fees 
does not subject a candidate committee to the reporting requirements of section 
1-45-108, C.R.S. At a minimum, a candidate committee must file an annual 
report as set forth in subsection (a) of this Rule. 
[Sections 1-45-108(2)(c) and (2)(d), C.R.S.] 
17.4.2 The exemption in section 1-45-108(2)(d), C.R.S., applies only to reports where the entire 
reporting period occurs after the election in which the candidate’s name appeared on the 
ballot. 
17.5 
Any filing related to a municipal campaign finance matter must be filed with the municipal clerk. 
Rule 18. 
Late Filing Penalties and Waiver Process 
18.1 
Requests for waiver or reduction of campaign finance penalties due to late or missing filing 
penalties imposed under Colo. Const. Article xxviii, Section 10(2): 
18.1.1 A request for waiver or reduction of campaign finance penalties imposed under Colo. 
Const. Article XXVIII, Section 10(2) must state the reason for the delinquency. 
(a) 
The filer should provide an explanation that includes all relevant factors relating 
to the delinquency and any mitigating circumstances, including measures taken 
to avoid future delinquencies.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
29 
(b) 
Before the appropriate officer will consider a request, the report must be filed, 
and a request including the required information must be submitted. 
(c) 
The appropriate filing office will not consider a waiver request after a penalty has 
been paid. 
18.1.2 Requests for waiver or reduction of campaign finance penalties due to late or missing 
filings imposed under Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Section 10(2) must be considered by 
the appropriate officer according to the following rules:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
30 
 
Scenario - applied in numerical order (i.e. if #1 
doesn't apply, move to #2) 
Result 
#1 
A waiver is requested and establishes good 
cause that made timely filing impracticable 
(For example, was in the hospital, got in a car 
accident, was stranded by a blizzard, etc.). 
The event or events that made timely filing 
impracticable must occur within a reasonable 
time of the date on which the report was filed. 
Waive penalty in full. A waiver will be granted 
without consideration of previous 
delinquencies. 
#2 
A waiver is requested but does not present 
circumstances that made timely filing 
impracticable (For example, forgot, was out of 
town, electronic calendar crashed), and: 
(a) Filer had contributions and/or expenditures 
during the reporting period. The penalty 
imposed is $100 or more. 
First delinquency in 24 months: The penalty 
will be reduced to $50. 
Second delinquency in 24 months: The 
penalty will be reduced by 50%. 
Third (or subsequent) delinquency in 24 
months: A reduction in penalty will not be 
granted. 
Penalties imposed under this Section are 
capped at the higher of the contributions or 
expenditures made during the reporting 
period. If a delinquency is found to be willful, 
the penalty cap may be increased to two to 
five times the higher of the contributions or 
expenditures made during the reporting 
period. 
For purposes of this analysis, previous 
delinquencies exclude those for which a 
waiver under scenario #1 was granted. 
(b) Filer has no activity (contributions OR 
expenditures) during the reporting period and 
the committee balance is zero. The penalty 
imposed is $100 or more. 
The penalty will be reduced to $50. 
 
(c) Filer has a fund balance greater than zero 
and filer has no activity (contributions OR 
expenditures) during the reporting period. The 
penalty imposed is $100 or more. 
First delinquency in 24 months: The penalty 
will be reduced to $50. 
Second delinquency in 24 months: The 
penalty will be reduced by 50%, subject to a 
cap of 10% of the fund balance (but not less 
than $100). 
Third (or subsequent) delinquency in 24 
months: The penalty is capped at 10% of the 
fund balance, and a minimum penalty of $100 
will be imposed. 
If a delinquency is found to be willful, the 
penalty cap may be increased to 20% to 50% 
of the fund balance. 
For purposes of this analysis, previous 
delinquencies exclude those for which a 
waiver under scenario #1 was granted.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
31 
Scenario - applied in numerical order (i.e. if #1 
doesn't apply, move to #2) 
Result 
(d) Filer seeks to terminate active status, has 
a fund balance of $1,000 or less, and has no 
activity (contributions OR expenditures) 
during the reporting period(s) in question. 
Penalties are subject to a cap equal to the 
total amount of the filer’s fund balance as of 
the date on which the delinquent report was 
filed, if the committee is promptly terminated. 
#3 
A waiver is requested, but submitted more 
than 30 days after the date of penalty 
imposition. For purposes of this analysis, a 
filer has 30 days after the date on which the 
final notice of penalty imposition is issued 
following the filing of the delinquent report. 
Until an outstanding report is filed, penalties 
continue to accrue at a rate of $50 per day 
and no request for waiver will be considered. 
A request will not be considered unless good 
cause has been shown for failure to meet the 
30-day waiver filing requirement. 
18.1.3 The appropriate officer may consider any additional factors that establish good cause or 
may otherwise be relevant to the request for waiver or reduction of campaign finance 
penalties for late or missing filings. In considering a request, the appropriate officer may 
request additional information, including but not limited to financial or other records 
maintained by the filer. 
18.1.4 Filers may request that the appropriate officer reconsider a request for waiver or 
reduction of campaign finance penalties. A filer must submit, in writing any request for 
reconsideration within 30 days of the date on which the waiver decision was mailed. The 
filer must present additional material facts that are significantly different than those 
presented in the original request for reduction or waiver. 
18.1.5 The appropriate officer will respond to requests for waiver or reduction of campaign 
finance penalties within 60 days. Failure to respond within 60 days, however, will not 
constitute an approval of the request. 
18.1.6 When reduced, penalties are rounded to the highest $25. The appropriate officer will not 
reduce a penalty to an amount less than $25, unless a full waiver has been granted. 
18.1.7 When applying Rule 18.1.2(2)(d), all outstanding penalties must be considered. 
Rule 19. 
Electronic Filing 
19.1 
All disclosure reports filed with the Secretary of State under Colo. Const. Article XXVIII and Article 
45 of Title 1, C.R.S., must be filed electronically on the Secretary of State’s TRACER system, 
except as provided in Rule 19.2. Paper reports will not be accepted. 
19.2 
In accordance with section 24-21-111, C.R.S., reports are not required to be filed electronically in 
either of the following circumstances: 
19.2.1 The Secretary of State has granted an exception to the electronic filing requirement after 
written application based on hardship or other good cause shown. 
(a) 
All applications for an exception must include a brief statement of the hardship or 
good cause. The Secretary of State must receive the application at least 15 
calendar days before the applicable filing deadline, unless the exception is based 
on emergency circumstance. For applications made under emergency 
circumstances after the deadline, the nature of the emergency must be described 
in the application.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
32 
(b) 
The filing of an application for exception based on emergency circumstances 
does not delay any reporting deadlines. If a penalty is imposed for failure to file a 
report on the date due, the penalty may be set aside or reduced in accordance 
with Colo. Const. Article XXVIII, Section 10(2). 
(c) 
The Secretary of State will review and respond in writing to all applications for an 
exception within three business days. 
19.2.2 The report is filed using the Secretary of State’s Electronic Data Interface (EDI) upon 
approval of the Secretary of State. 
19.3 
For the purpose of section 1-45-109(2)(a), C.R.S., “close of business” for electronic filing means 
11:59 p.m. MT. 
19.4 
If the electronic filing system is unavailable for a total of more than one hour on the due date for 
filing a report, the Secretary of State may extend the due date for an additional day. [Sections 1-
45-108(2.3) and 1-45-109(6), C.R.S.] 
Rule 20. 
Redaction of Sensitive Information 
20.1 
Any person who believes their safety or the safety of an immediate family member may be in 
jeopardy as a result of information disclosed on any campaign finance registration or report, 
personal financial disclosure, or gift and honoraria report filed with the Secretary of State, may 
apply to the Secretary of State to redact sensitive personal information from the online versions of 
such report(s). 
20.1.1 The Secretary of State, upon a finding of good cause, may redact the minimum amount 
of sensitive information necessary to protect the safety of such person or his or her 
immediate family. 
20.1.2 If the Secretary of State redacts sensitive information disclosed on a campaign finance 
report, the original unredacted report remains a public record under Article 72 of Title 24 
C.R.S. 
20.2 
Applications for redaction of sensitive information must be submitted in writing and include the 
requestor’s name, the identified entry(s) of concern, a justification for the application, and the 
committee to whom the contribution(s) was made or expenditure(s) received. 
20.3 
Applications for redaction of sensitive personal information are not subject to disclosure under the 
Colorado Open Records Act. [Section 24-72-201 et. seq., C.R.S.] 
Rule 21. 
Coordination 
21.1 
“Coordination”. Expenditures or spending are coordinated with a candidate committee or political 
party if: 
21.1.1 A person makes an expenditure or engages in spending at the request, suggestion, or 
direction of, in consultation with, or under the control of that candidate committee or 
political party; or 
21.1.2 An independent expenditure or electioneering communication is created, produced, or 
distributed: 
(a) 
After one or more substantial discussion(s) between the candidate or political 
party and the person making the expenditure or engaging in the spending,

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
33 
(1) 
In which the person making the expenditure or engaging in the spending 
received non-public information about the candidate or political party's 
plans, projects, activities, or needs; and 
(2) 
The information is material to the creation, production, or dissemination 
of an independent expenditure or electioneering communication; or 
(b) 
By a common consultant who provides, or has provided during the election cycle, 
professional services to the candidate committee or political party as well as to 
the person making the expenditure or engaging in the spending; and 
(1) 
In which the person making the expenditure or engaging in the spending 
received non-public information about the candidate or political party's 
plans, projects, activities, or needs; and 
(2) 
The information is material to the creation, production, or dissemination 
of an independent expenditure or electioneering communication. 
21.1.3 This rule does not apply to an attorney, accountant, bookkeeper, or registered agent who 
provides services within the scope of his or her profession. 
21.1.4 If a candidate committee or political party and the person making the expenditure or 
engaging in spending use a common consultant, an independent expenditure or 
electioneering communication is not coordinated if the consultant places effective barriers 
(i.e., “firewalls”) to the transmission of non-public information between: 
(a) 
The candidate committee or political party; and 
(b) 
The person making an independent expenditure or engaging in spending. 
Physical or technological barriers include appropriate security measures, and 
must be set forth in a written policy that is distributed to all affected agents, 
employees, board members, directors, officers, and consultants. A firewall is not 
effective if non-public material information is nonetheless directly or indirectly 
transmitted to the person making an expenditure or engaging in spending. 
21.1.5 For purposes of this Rule: 
(a) 
Candidate committee or political party includes any agent, employee, board 
member, director, or officer of that candidate committee or political party. 
(b) 
The person making the expenditure or engaging in the spending includes any 
agent, employee, board member, director, or officer of the person making the 
expenditure or engaging in the spending. 
21.2 
Pre-candidacy coordination 
21.2.1 For purposes of section 1-45-103.7(11)(a), C.R.S., a person actively solicits funds for an 
independent expenditure committee with the intent of benefitting his or her future 
candidacy when the person: 
(a) 
Organizes, directs, or plans a fundraising event for the independent expenditure 
committee; or asks for, encourages, or suggests a donation to the independent 
expenditure committee; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
34 
(b) 
Knows or reasonably should know that the independent expenditure committee 
will support the person’s future candidacy. 
Rule 22. 
“Paid for by” Disclaimer Statements 
22.1 
Disclaimer requirement for nonbroadcast communications, including online communications. 
22.1.1 Under section 1-45-107.5(5)(c), C.R.S., nonbroadcast communications must contain a 
clear and conspicuous “paid for by” disclaimer that is clearly readable, printed in text that 
is no less than 15 percent of the size of the largest font used in the communication, or at 
least eight-point font, and includes: 
(a) 
The name of the person that paid for the communication; 
(b) 
In the case of an independent expenditure, a statement that the communication 
is not authorized by any candidate; and 
(c) 
A natural person who is the registered agent if the person identified in subsection 
(a) above is not a natural person. 
22.1.2 These requirements do not apply to bumper stickers, pins, buttons, pens, and similar 
small items upon which the “paid for by” disclaimer cannot be reasonably printed. 
22.1.3 If the size, format, or display requirements of an electronic or online communication make 
it impracticable to include a “paid for by” disclaimer statement on the communication, the 
disclaimer statement must be available by means of a direct link from the communication 
to the web page or application screen containing the statement. 
(a) 
The information provided in the direct link are subject to all of the size and 
content requirements in Rule 22.1.1. 
(b) 
The information provided in the direct link must be clearly and conspicuously 
displayed, and must be immediately apparent on the screen without receiving or 
viewing any additional material. 
(c) 
If the communication is a direct or indirect electronic message to a person, 
including but not limited to a text message, only the initial communication must 
contain the direct link. 
(d) 
For purposes of this Rule, it is impracticable to include a disclaimer statement if it 
would severely interfere with the ability to convey the intended message. 
Rule 23. 
Complaints filed under section 1-45-111.7, C.R.S. 
23.1 
Filing initial complaints 
23.1.1 Campaign and political finance complaints must be filed in writing and can be submitted 
by hardcopy or electronically. Electronic signatures are permitted for any complaint 
documentation that requires a signature by complaint, respondent, or the elections 
division. 
23.1.2 A complaint must identify both a respondent and a complainant. Anonymous complaints 
or complaints that fail to identify a complainant and respondent may be rejected and not 
reviewed by the elections division.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
35 
23.1.3 Complaints must meet the plausibility pleadings standard by presenting a plausible basis, 
based on concrete, non-conclusory allegations of particularized facts, to support the 
allegations that a potential campaign and political finance violation occurred. The 
plausibility of an allegation is determined while accepting as true the concrete, non-
conclusory assertions of fact upon which the allegation is based. 
23.1.4 Complaints that stem from a common set of operative facts as a pending complaint will 
be consolidated when practicable. When consolidation is not practicable and the outcome 
of the initial case will be determinative of the later case, a complaint will be stayed until a 
final agency decision issues on the initial complaint and any appeals are resolved. 
23.1.5 Violations stemming from late or missing filings that have had a late filing penalty 
assigned or the assigned penalty has been waived under Rule 18 are not subject to 
additional monetary penalties under Rule 23.4 for the late filing violation. 
23.1.6 A respondent that fails to preserve potentially relevant information or records concerning 
its contributions or expenditures or otherwise reportable activity upon receipt of a 
complaint may be subject to an adverse inference establishing that the information or 
records that were not preserved after receipt of a complaint would otherwise establish the 
disputed fact. This adverse inference is subject to the equitable principles applicable 
under the common law spoliation doctrine. 
23.2 
Referral of municipal complaints 
23.2.1 A municipal complaint may not be directly filed with the division and must be reviewed by 
the municipal clerk as required by section 1-46-111.7(10)(a)-(b), C.R.S., before being 
referred to the division. 
23.2.2 A municipal complaint may be referred to the division to process and investigate if the 
complaint meets all of the following conditions: 
(a) 
A complaint meets the grounds for referral: 
(1) 
For statutory and home rule municipalities, the complaint involves an 
actual or potential conflict for the municipal clerk or the clerk’s staff; or 
(2) 
For statutory municipalities, the municipality has not adopted a campaign 
and political finance complaint and hearing process; 
(b) 
A local ordinance meeting the conditions in section 1-45-111.7(10)(d), C.R.S., 
and this rule’s subsection (c) specifically allows complaints to be referred to the 
division due to a conflict or because there is no local enforcement process; and 
(c) 
The municipality has adopted the ordinance and provided a copy to the 
Department 180 days or more prior to the municipal election at issue in the 
complaint. Once a copy of the ordinance has been provided to the Department, 
another copy does not need to be provided for additional complaints unless 
amended or updated. 
23.2.3 A municipal complaint referred to the division must include: 
(a) 
The underlying complaint and any documents attached to the complaint; 
(b) 
A municipal complaint cover sheet, available on the Secretary of State’s website, 
with all the required information provided;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
36 
(c) 
The name and contact information for a person within the municipal clerk’s office 
who will assist the division with any questions during the processing of the 
complaint; 
(d) 
A copy of the local ordinance that allows referral; and 
(e) 
Any relevant campaign and political finance filings, documents, copies of 
applicable local law, communications with complainant or respondent related to 
the complaint, determination of the conflict, evidence of the initial review 
conducted under section 1-45-111.7(10), C.R.S., or other documents relevant to 
the complaint. 
23.2.4 Timeliness 
(a) 
A municipal complaint must be referred to the division within 14 business days of 
receipt by the municipality and will be processed and reviewed according to the 
provisions of subsections 1-45-111.7(3)-(10), C.R.S. 
(b) 
For processing deadlines under section 1-45-111.7, C.R.S., the division will 
process the complaint based on the date the complaint was received by the 
division from the municipal clerk. 
(c) 
Unless local law provides for a different date, a municipal complaint must be filed 
no later than 180 days after the date on which the complainant either knew or 
should have known, by the exercise of reasonable diligence, of the alleged 
violation. The determination of timeliness is calculated from the date the 
complaint is filed with the municipality. 
23.2.5 The division may reject a referral of a municipal complaint if the clerk did not conduct an 
initial review as provided in section 1-45-111.7, C.R.S., the complaint was not referred to 
the division within 14 business days, or the municipality did not have an ordinance in 
place that allowed referral or otherwise met referral requirements. 
23.2.6 The division has no jurisdiction to consider an allegation against a municipality or a 
municipal clerk that the municipality or clerk improperly failed to refer a municipal 
campaign finance complaint to the Department. Such claims, if any, may be pursued 
against the municipality or the clerk in the District Court where the municipality is located 
pursuant to Rule 106(4) of the Colorado Rules of Civil Procedure. The Department has 
no liability to a complainant or any other person for the failure of a municipality or a 
municipal clerk to refer a municipal campaign finance complaint to the Department. 
23.3 
Documents related to complaints. 
23.3.1 The original complaint, notice of initial review, motion to dismiss, an order issued by the 
Secretary of State’s Office, final agency decision, and any administrative complaint filed 
by the elections division with a hearing officer will be publicly available at the time the 
document is provided to the respondent. 
23.3.2 The elections division may redact any document that it will otherwise make available 
pursuant to this rule if such redaction is necessary to protect any personal private 
information or personally identifiable information, is not relevant or material to the 
determination, or is otherwise required under the Colorado Open Records Act.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
37 
23.3.3 Any document the elections division receives under section 1-45-111.7(5)(a)(III), C.R.S., 
will not be retained after the time necessary to review, investigate, or prosecute a 
complaint, including any appeal, as applicable. 
23.4 
Settlement of complaints and fine structure for violations 
23.4.1 After an administrative complaint has been filed with a hearing officer, under 8 CCR 
1505-3, Rule 3, the elections division may enter into a settlement agreement with the 
respondent. 
23.4.2 In assessing a fine amount or approving a settlement, the deputy secretary of state or a 
hearing officer, as applicable, will consider all of the following factors: 
(a) 
Specific fine amounts outlined in Rule 23.4.3; 
(b) 
Any appropriate specific action in Rule 23.4.4; 
(c) 
Whether Rule 18 late filing penalties have been issued and if a waiver was 
granted; 
(d) 
Sanctions available under section 1-45-111.5, C.R.S.; and 
(e) 
The mitigating and aggravating factors, including those listed in Rule 23.4.5, to 
increase or decrease the monetary fine or terms. 
23.4.3 Fine amounts 
(a) 
Failure to register a committee 
(1) 
Amount of contributions or donations accepted or expenditures made 
while out of compliance, outlined below: 
(A) 
Less than $1,000 fine is at least $150; 
(B) 
Between $1,001 and up to $5,000 fine is at least $300; or 
(C) 
Greater than $5,000 the fine of at least $300 plus at least 10 
percent of total amount of the contributions and expenditures 
made. 
(b) 
Failure to file complete and accurate affidavits, disclosures, contributions, 
expenditures, or other finance reports 
(1) 
Failure to file complete and accurate reports is a $100 fine per report 
plus 5 percent of the activity not accurately or completely reported. 
(2) 
Failure to file an accurate candidate affidavit 
(A) 
If the affidavit is submitted within 14 days of registration 
deadline, the fine is at least $50; or 
(B) 
If the affidavit is submitted after 14 days post deadline, the fine is 
at least $100.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
38 
(3) 
Failure to file an accurate or complete initial, updated, or amended 
personal financial disclosure as required under section 1-45-110, C.R.S., 
which includes content required by section 24-6-202(2), C.R.S. 
(A) 
If the personal financial disclosure is filed or corrected within 14 
days of the applicable filing due date, the fine is at least $50; 
(B) 
If the personal financial disclosure is filed or corrected prior to 
the filing of any complaint alleging an insufficient filing of a 
personal financial disclosure, so long as the disclosure is 
submitted at least 30 days prior to the first election in which the 
candidate is running, the fine is at least $100; 
(C) 
If the personal financial disclosure is filed or corrected after the 
filing of any complaint alleging an insufficient filing of a personal 
financial disclosure, so long as the disclosure is submitted at 
least 30 days prior to the first election in which the candidate is 
running, the fine is at least $250; 
(D) 
If the personal financial disclosure is filed or corrected fewer than 
30 days before the election in which the candidate is running, the 
fine is at least $500; 
(E) 
If the candidate or incumbent is defeated or withdraws and the 
personal financial disclosure was not corrected, the fine will be at 
least $500; or 
(F) 
If the personal financial disclosure is corrected after the election, 
and the respondent was not defeated or did not withdraw, the 
fine is at least $1,000. 
(4) 
Failure to file an initial disclosure report or an annual update as required 
under section 24-6-202, C.R.S. 
(A) 
If the disclosure report is filed within 14 days of due date, the fine 
is at least $50; 
(B) 
If the disclosure report is filed within 28 days of due date, the fine 
is at least $100; 
(C) 
If the disclosure report is filed more than 28 days late but at least 
30 days prior to an election in which the official is running, the 
fine is at least $500; or 
(D) 
If the disclosure report is filed after an election in which the 
official is running, the fine is at least $1,000. 
(5) 
Filing an inaccurate or incomplete personal financial disclosure or failure 
to correct an inaccurate or incomplete personal financial disclosure could 
result in criminal and civil penalties under section 24-6-202(7), C.R.S. 
(c) 
Prohibited contributions, donations, and expenditures

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
39 
(1) 
For accepting a prohibited contribution including accepting an amount 
that exceeds a contribution limit or making prohibited expenditures, the 
fine is at least $100 and 10 percent of the prohibited activity: 
(2) 
Prohibited use of unspent campaign funds and exceeding voluntary 
contribution limits 
(A) 
A fine of at least $250 per violation; and 
(B) 
A fine that is up to 25 percent of the amount of the prohibited 
activity. 
(d) 
Disclaimer and electioneering communications 
(1) 
If noncompliant communication is mitigated prior to the election: a fine of 
at least 5 percent cost of the noncompliant communication including cost 
to broadcast; 
(2) 
If noncompliant communication is not mitigated prior to the election: a 
fine of at least 10 percent of the cost of the communication including cost 
to broadcast; or 
(3) 
For failure to include a compliant disclosure statement for a deepfake 
communication, the penalties are outlined under section 1-45-
111.5(1.5)(c.5), C.R.S. 
(e) 
Violations by the state or a political subdivision under section 1-45-117, C.R.S. 
(1) 
If the violation is cured before the election but there was no substantial 
compliance, the fine will be at least $500; 
(2) 
If the violation is not cured before the election, the fine will be at least 
$1,000; or 
(3) 
If the amount of funds improperly used is ascertainable, the fine will be at 
least three times the amount of the improperly used funds. 
(f) 
Other violations of campaign and political finance rules and regulations will be 
assessed penalties based on the circumstances of the violations and factors 
outlined in Rule 23.4.4. 
23.4.4 Specific action(s) 
(a) 
In addition to monetary fines the deputy secretary of state or assignee may seek 
a specific action(s) from the respondent. Specific actions may include: 
(1) 
Registering as a committee or candidate in TRACER; 
(2) 
Return or donation of prohibited contribution or disgorgement of the 
value of the improper conduct; 
(3) 
Filing or amending disclosure reports; 
(4) 
Inclusion or correction of disclaimer on the communication; or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
40 
(5) 
Other specific performance or terms that may be warranted. 
23.4.5 The elections division may also consider the follow mitigating and aggravating factors: 
(a) 
Nature and extent of the violation; 
(b) 
Timing of the violation (including proximity to the election); 
(c) 
Ability or effort to mitigate the violation; 
(d) 
Evidence of an intentional act or a pattern or practice of misconduct; 
(e) 
Extent to which the harm cause by the violation or the value of the violation 
cannot be reasonably calculated; or 
(f) 
Other aggravating or mitigating factors may be taken into consideration in 
reaching a just and equitable outcome. 
Rule 24. [Reserved.] 
Rule 25. 
Deepfake Communications 
25.1 
Deepfake communications 
25.1.1 Deepfakes must involve a candidate as that term is defined in section 1-46-102(2), 
C.R.S., which includes current federal, state, and local officeholders in Colorado, and 
candidates for federal, state, and local offices on the ballot in Colorado, and must be 
disseminated to an audience that includes Colorado electors. 
25.1.2 There is a rebuttable presumption that the alleged deepfake communication was created, 
edited, or modified using generative A.I, if: 
(a) 
A campaign and political finance complaint has been filed and the division initially 
determines under section 1-45-111.7(3), C.R.S., that the complaint alleges a 
potential violation of section 1-46-103(1), C.R.S.; and 
(b) 
The respondent fails to provide substantial evidence, as defined in Rule 1.31, 
regarding how the communication was created or modified. 
25.1.3 This presumption will be considered sufficient information to support the filing of an 
administrative complaint with a hearing officer under section 1-45-111.7(5), C.R.S. The 
presumption that a communication was created, edited, or modified using generative A.I. 
can be rebutted by the respondent during the administrative complaint process. The 
presumption no longer applies once the respondent has appeared and answered an 
administrative complaint in a hearing before a hearing officer. 
25.2 
Disclosure statements 
25.2.1 A deepfake communication must include a disclosure statement that meets the 
requirements of subsections 1-46-103(2), (3)(b) and (3)(d), C.R.S. Substantial 
compliance with these statutory provisions may be found to be compliant. 
25.2.2 If a communication is required to have a “paid for by” disclaimer under section 1-45-
108.3, C.R.S., the communication must include both a “paid for by” disclaimer and a 
deepfake disclosure statement.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
41 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Rules 1.4, 1.6-1.15, 2.2, 2.5, 2.8, 2.10-2.11, 3.10, 4.7-4.23, 5.6, 5.10-5.12, 6.4, 8.1, 8.4, 9.4, 11.1, 11.3, 
11.4 eff. 11/30/2007. 
Rules 1.1, 2.4, 2.8, 2.11, 3.10, 4.2, 4.20, 9.2, 9.5 eff. 01/30/2008. 
Rule 4.21.3.1 emer. rule eff. 07/28/2008; expired 10/28/2008. 
Rules 4.21, 6.4, 10, 13 eff. 09/01/2008. 
Rule 4.21.3-4.21.3.1 eff. 10/30/2008. 
Rules 1.6, 1.14, 2.1, 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 3.4, 3.7, 4.3, 4.5, 4.8, 4.11, 4.24, 6.1, 10.2, 10.5, 11.2, 11.5, 14 eff. 
11/30/2009. 
Rules 2.10, 2.11, 5.7 through 5.11, 8.1, 8.2, 8.3 eff. 01/01/2010. 
Rules 4.3, 4.25, 5.6, 5.10, 10.1, 14.2 eff. 03/30/2010. 
Rules 4.2, 5.5, 10.5, 11.4 repealed eff. 03/30/2010. 
Rules 4.26, 9.6, 14.3, 14.4 emer. rules eff. 04/02/2010; rules 4.12, 4.22 emer. rules repealed eff. 
04/02/2010. 
Rules 4.26, 9.6, 14.3, 14.4 eff. 06/30/2012; rules 4.12, 4.22 repealed eff. 06/30/2010. 
Rules 1.5, 1.13, 1.16, 2.1, 2.3, 2.4, 2.6, 2.9, 3, 3.9, 4.3, 4.4, 4.14, 4.16, 4.19, 4.20, 5.6, 14.5, 14.6, 14.7 
eff. 10/30/2012; rules 14.1, 14.2, 14.3, 14.4 repealed eff. 10/30/2010. 
Rules 6.3, 8.1, 12, 13 emer. rules eff. 03/15/2011. 
Rules 6.3, 8.1, 12, 13 eff. 04/14/2011. 
Rule 15 eff. 06/14/2011. 
Rule 5.13 emer. rule eff. 06/29/2011. 
Rule 4.27 eff. 06/30/2011. 
Rule 5.13 eff. 08/14/2011. 
Rule 5.14 eff. 01/30/2012; rule 5.13 repealed eff. 01/30/2012. 
Entire rule emer. rule eff. 03/07/2012. 
Entire rule eff. 04/12/2012. 
Rules 6.3, 15.6 annotation emer. rules eff. 5/23/2012; rule 6.1.1 emer. rule repealed eff. 05/23/2012; 15.6 
annotation expired 09/20/2012. 
Rules 3.1, 7.1.1(e) emer. rules eff. 08/07/2012. 
Rules 4.3, 5.1.2, 6, 16.6, 17.2.4 emer. rules eff. 08/15/2012. 
Rules 4.3, 5.1.2, 6, 16.6, 17.2.4 eff. 09/30/2012. 
Rules 3.1, 7.1.1(e) eff. 11/30/2012. 
Entire rule eff. 07/30/2015. 
Rules 2.3, 9.1, 10.8.1 emer. rules eff. 09/15/2015. Rule 2.3.2 emer. rule repealed eff. 09/15/2015. 
Rules 2.3, 9.1, 10.8.1 eff. 12/15/2015. Rule 2.3.2 repealed eff. 12/15/2015. 
Rules 1.3, 1.7, 2.2.4(b), 2.4.4, 3.1, 4, 8.1.3, 9.2.1, 9.3, 10.2, 10.3, 10.7.2, 10.14.2, 10.17, 11.2-11.5, 15.1-
15.4, 17.1, 17.2.2, 17.6, 18.1.1(c), 18.2, 18.3, 20.1, 21.1.2(a) eff. 09/30/2016. 
Rules 1.6, 1.7, 1.13, 1.19, 1.21, 2.2.4(c)(3), 2.4.5, 2.5, 3.3, 4.4.3, 4.5, 4.6, 10.1.3, 10.2.3(b), 10.4.6, 
10.11.3, 12.4, 18.2, 18.4 emer. rules eff. 08/10/2017; expired 12/08/2017. 
Rules 1.6, 1.7, 1.13, 1.19, 1.21, 2.2.4(c)(3), 2.4.5, 2.5, 3.3, 3.4, 4.4.3, 4.5, 4.6, 10.1.3, 10.2.3(b), 10.4.6, 
10.11.3, 12.4, 12.5, 18.2, 18.4 eff. 12/15/2017. 
Rule 18.2.4 emer. rule eff. 01/05/2018.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-6 
Secretary of State 
 
42 
Rule 18.2.4 emer. rule eff. 05/04/2018. 
Rule 18.2 emer. rule eff. 06/19/2018. 
Rules 1.4, 1.6.1, 1.7, 1.8.1, 1.17, 1.18-1.21, 2.2.2-2.2.4, 2.4.3, 4.6, 6.2.2, 10.3, 10.7-10.18, 17.5, 18.1.1, 
18.1.4-18.1.7, 18.3, 18.4 eff. 08/30/2018. Rules 4.5, 14.4, 18.1.4 repealed eff. 08/30/2018. 
Rule 18.2 emer. rule eff. 10/11/2018. 
Rule 18.2 eff. 11/30/2018. 
Rule 2.2.4 emer. rule eff. 12/03/2018. 
Rule 2.2.4 eff. 01/30/2019. 
Rule 10.17 emer. rule eff. 03/29/2019; expired 07/27/2019. 
Rule 18.2.13 emer. rule eff. 07/01/2019. 
Rule 10.17 emer. rule eff. 07/27/2019. 
Rules 1.4, 1.6-1.8, 1.23, 2.2.3, 2.2.4(b)(1), 2.4.3, 5.1, 5.2, 7.1.1, 9.1, 10.1.3, 10.2.3, 10.4.1-10.4.3, 10.5, 
10.6, 10.16, 10.17, 11.5, 12.5, 16.3, 17.2.4, 17.5.1(a)(1), 18.1.1(c), 18.1.2, 18.1.3, 18.2, 21.2, 22 
emer. rules eff. 08/02/2019. 
Rules 1.4, 1.6-1.8, 1.23, 2.2.3, 2.2.4(b)(1), 2.4.3, 5.1, 5.2, 7.1.1, 9.1, 10.1.3, 10.2.3, 10.4.1-10.4.3, 10.5, 
10.6, 10.16, 10.17, 11.5, 12.5, 16.3, 17.2.4, 17.5.1(a)(1), 18.1.1(c), 18.1.2, 18.1.3, 18.2, 21.2, 22 
eff. 09/30/2019. 
Rules 1.12, 10.4, 10.4.1, 10.4.7, 12.3, 14.1, 15.3, 17.6, 18.1, rules 18.2, 18.2.1, 18.2.3, 18.2.4 repealed, 
rule 18.2.2 recodified as rule 23.2 emer. rules eff. 08/10/2020. 
Rules 1.12, 10.4, 10.4.1, 10.4.7, 12.3, 14.1, 15.3, 17.6, rules 18.2, 18.2.1, 18.2.3, 18.2.4 repealed, rule 
18.2.2 recodified as rule 23.2 eff. 09/30/2020. 
Rules 2.2.4(a), 2.4.5-2.4.6, 8.1, 10.17.1(h)-10.17.1(j), rules 17.3.4, 17.4 repealed eff. 11/14/2022. 
Rule 10.17.1 emer. rule eff. 02/15/2023. 
Rules 23.2, 24, Appendices A, B emer. rules eff. 04/13/2023. 
Rule 10.17.1 eff. 05/30/2023. 
Rules 23.2, 24, Appendices A, B eff. 07/15/2023. 
Rules 1.1-1.38, 2.1, 2.4, 4.3, 5.1, 10.1, 10.19, 10.20, 12.3, 19.1, 23.1, 23.3, 24.2-24.21 eff. 10/15/2023. 
Rules 1.5, 10.17.1.a, 10.17.1.i eff. 12/15/2023. 
Rules 1.1-1.37, 2.4.1-2.4.3, 4.3, 4.4-4.7, 5.1.2, 10.2.3(c), 10.11, 10.19.1, 11, 22, 23.1.5, 23.1.6, 23.2-
23.2.6, 23.3, 23.4, 24.8.5, 24.14.3, 24.14.4, 25-25.2.2 eff. 11/14/2024. Rules 1.26, 10.19.1(f), 
11.1 repealed eff. 11/14/2024. 
Rules 4.4.3(b), 4.4.4, 23.3.1, 23.4.1, 25.1.2(b) eff. 01/01/2025. Rules 1.2, 1.7, 1.15, 1.19, 24, Appendices 
A, B repealed eff. 01/01/2025.
