---
id: "8_CCR_1501-13"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1501-13"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12455&fileName=8%20CCR%201501-13&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1501-13. 8 CCR 1501-13

1 
OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR 
Colorado Energy Office 
REGULATION 1 – BUILDING DECARBONIZATION FEE 
8 CCR 1501-13 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
1.1 
AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE 
1.1.1 Authority 
The Building Decarbonization Enterprise Board (the “Board”) shall administer the 
Building Decarbonization Cash Fund (the “Fund”) pursuant to § 24-38.5-125, C.R.S. 
The Fund consists of: 
1.1.1.1 
Building Decarbonization fee revenue; 
1.1.1.2 
Monetary gifts, grants, donations, or other payments received by 
the Building Decarbonization Enterprise; 
1.1.1.3 
Any money received from the issuance of revenue bonds; and 
1.1.1.4 
Any other money that the general assembly may appropriate or 
transfer to the Fund. 
1.1.2 Purpose 
1.1.2.1 
Pursuant to § 24-38.5-125(3)(a), C.R.S., the Board is authorized to: 
(a) 
Impose and assess a building decarbonization fee on owners of 
covered buildings; 
(b) 
Provide technical assistance, financing, and other programmatic 
support for covered building owners' building decarbonization 
measures, including, but not limited to, conducting building energy 
audits, developing analyses to help building owners evaluate the 
best strategies for achieving future performance standard targets, 
consulting building engineers, purchasing energy use tracking 
software, and providing training on such software; 
(c) 
Have and exercise all rights and powers necessary or incidental to 
or implied from the specific powers and duties granted under this 
section; and 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1501-13 
Colorado Energy Office 
 
2 
(d) 
Ensure that the building decarbonization fee paid by covered 
building owners is used solely to support programs, technical 
assistance, and financial assistance for the covered building 
owners that pay the building decarbonization fee. 
1.1.3 Definitions 
1.1.3.1 
‘Board’ means the governing board of the Building Decarbonization 
Enterprise as defined in § 24-38.5-125(4), C.R.S. 
1.1.3.2 
‘Building Decarbonization Fee’ or ‘fee’ means the fee paid by the 
owner of a covered building. 
1.1.3.3 
“Covered building” means a building comprising a gross floor area 
of fifty thousand square feet or more that is occupied by a single occupant 
or group of tenants. “Covered building” does not include: 
(A) 
A storage facility, stand-alone parking garage, or airplane hangar 
that lacks heating and cooling; 
(B) 
A building in which more than half of the gross floor area is used for 
manufacturing or industrial purposes; 
(C) 
A single-family home, duplex, or triplex; or 
(D) 
An agricultural building. 
1.1.3.4 
‘Enterprise’ means the Building Decarbonization Enterprise created 
in § 24-38.5-125(3), C.R.S. 
1.1.3.5 
‘Fund’ means the Building Decarbonization Cash Fund created 
within the state treasury pursuant to § 24-38.5-125(6)(a), C.R.S. 
1.1.3.6 
“Inflation” means the annual percentage change in the in the United 
States department of labor's bureau of labor statistics consumer price 
index, or a successor index, for Denver-Aurora-Lakewood for all items 
paid for by urban consumers 
1.1.3.7 
“Office” means the Colorado Energy Office created in § 24-38.5-
101, C.R.S. 
1.1.4 Severability 
Each provision of this regulation shall be deemed severable, and in the event that any 
provision of this regulation is held to be invalid, the remainder of this regulation shall 
continue in full force and effect.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1501-13 
Colorado Energy Office 
 
3 
1.2 
BUILDING DECARBONIZATION FEE 
The fee, as established by the Board, will be collected for the specific business 
purposes of providing financing and technical assistance to covered building owners to 
more effectively and efficiently implement building decarbonization measures, including 
feasibility analyses and improvements that will reduce energy use and emissions. The 
fee is to be collected at a rate that is reasonably related to the overall cost of the 
business services being provided. The Board shall impose, and the Colorado Energy 
Office shall collect on behalf of the Enterprise, the fee. 
1.2.1 The fee shall be set at $400 as authorized by § 24-38.5-125(5), C.R.S. 
1.2.1.1 
The fee shall be adjusted for inflation on an annual basis starting in 
fiscal year 2027-2028. 
1.2.2 The fee shall be collected by the Colorado Energy Office on behalf of the 
Enterprise annually on November 1st. 
1.3 
OTHER REVENUES, PAYMENTS, GRANTS, GIFTS AND DONATIONS 
1.3.1 Nothing in this rule limits or precludes the Fund from receiving other revenues, 
payments, grants, gifts and donations as allowed by § 24-38.5-125(1)(b), C.R.S. 
or other statute. 
2.1 
STATEMENT OF BASIS AND PURPOSE 
2.1.1. Basis and Purpose 
Pursuant to § 24-38.5-123(3) C.R.S., the Enterprise functions as a government-owned 
business that provides statutorily specified services to fee payers, specifically, owners 
of covered buildings. Expenditures of Enterprise revenue will provide benefits to fee 
payers, and may also benefit the public and third parties. 
To minimize the administrative costs associated with the fee rule to further the purposes 
and mission of the Enterprise, the Colorado Energy Office shall collect the building 
decarbonization fee on behalf of the Enterprise. Statute mandated that the Enterprise 
begin collecting the fee in state fiscal year 2026 and the Board adopt rules for the 
purpose of setting the amount of the building decarbonization fee in furtherance of the 
Enterprise's business purpose.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1501-13 
Colorado Energy Office 
 
4 
Statute also requires the fee be imposed upon all covered building owners; except that 
the fee shall not be imposed on the owner of a public building. “Public building” has the 
same definition as established in § 25-7-142(2)(t), C.R.S., means a covered building 
owned by: 
(I) 
The state; 
(II) 
A local government; 
(III) 
A district or special district regulated under title 32; 
(IV) 
A state institution of higher education; 
(V) 
A private institution of higher education as defined in § 23-18-102(9), 
C.R.S.; 
(VI) 
A school district created pursuant to article 30 of title 22; and 
(VII) 
A charter school authorized pursuant to part 1 of article 30.5 of title 22. 
Statutory Authority 
To fund its activities, the Board must establish fees, as authorized in § 24-38.5-
125(5)(b), C.R.S. This rule sets up the permanent building decarbonization fee that will 
be paid into the Fund.  
It is appropriate that covered building owners should pay a building decarbonization fee, 
as covered building owners are the direct beneficiaries of services provided by the 
Enterprise, which services include the financing and technical assistance provided for 
the building decarbonization measures. 
Other revenues, payments, grants, gifts and donations 
Payment into the Fund may also occur through the receipt of other revenues, payments, 
gifts, grants, and donations. 
Future fee revisions 
The Board, with assistance from the department of revenue, will revisit the building 
decarbonization enterprise fee annually to adjust the fee for inflation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1501-13 
Colorado Energy Office 
 
5 
______________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule emer. rule eff. 10/13/2025. 
Rules 1.1.1, 1.1.2.1, 1.1.3.7, 1.2.2, 2.1.1 eff. 03/17/2026.
