---
id: "8_CCR_1203-20"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1203-20"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=5105&fileName=8%20CCR%201203-20&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1203-20. 8 CCR 1203-20

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 
Plant Industry Division 
RULES AND REGULATONS PERTAINING TO THE PRODUCTION OF STRAWBERRY NURSERY 
STOCK - Repealed eff. 03/30/2013 
8 CCR 1203-20 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Adopted February 15, 2013 – Effective March 30, 2013 
Statutory Authority 
These amendments to these rules are proposed for adoption by the Commissioner of the Colorado 
Department of Agriculture (“CDA”) pursuant to his authority under § 35-1-104(1)(aa.2), C.R.S. 
The purpose of the proposed rule amendment is as follows: 
1. 
To delete in their entirety. 
Factual and Policy Basis Issues 
The factual and policy issues encountered when developing this rule change: 
1. 
The strawberry nursery stock production industry has not materialized as anticipated when these 
rules were initially developed. Two farmers in the San Luis Valley initially were involved in this 
industry. Neither is currently growing strawberry nursery stock and they do not intend to in the 
future. No other farmers have entered the industry. Dr. Robert Davidson at the Colorado State 
University San Luis Valley Research Center has stated that he does not anticipate the need for 
these rules in the foreseeable future. He was a strong proponent of the rules when they were 
developed. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule repealed eff. 03/30/2013. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado
