---
id: "8_CCR_1202-17"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1202-17"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12460&fileName=8%20CCR%201202-17&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1202-17. 8 CCR 1202-17

1 
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
RULES PERTAINING TO THE ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF THE 
PRODUCE SAFETY ACT 
8 CCR 1202-17 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
Pursuant to the provisions and requirements of the Produce Safety Act, Title 35, Article 
77, C.R.S., the following rules are hereby promulgated to enforce under Colorado law 
the federal Standards for the Growing, Harvesting, Packing and Holding of Produce for 
Human Consumption, 21 CFR § 112. 
Part 1 DEFINITIONS 
1.1 
“Act” means the Produce Safety Act, Title 35, Article 77, C.R.S. 
1.2 
“Adulterated’ has the same meaning as defined in section 402 of the Federal 
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. 
1.3 
“Commissioner” means the Colorado Commissioner of Agriculture or any 
employee designated by the Commissioner. 
1.4 
“Covered Activity” has the same meaning as set forth in 21 CFR 112.3. 
1.5 
“Covered Farm” has the same meaning as set forth in 21 CFR 112.4 
1.6 
“Covered Produce” has the same meaning as set forth in 21 CFR 112.3. 
1.7 
“Department” means the Colorado Department of Agriculture. 
1.8 
“Farm” has the same meaning as set forth in 21 CFR 112.3 and includes all 
buildings or areas where covered activity occurs or covered produce is grown, 
stored, handled or kept. It includes farms incorporated into other businesses. 
1.9 
“Farm Records” means any record that identifies a farm's ownership, or contains 
trade secrets, privileged information, or confidential commercial, financial, 
geological, or geophysical data. Such records can be in written, printed, 
photographic, electronic or digital format and can include, but are not required to 
include: crop information, financial information, purchase and sale information, 
operational protocols, or account numbers or unique identifiers issued by 
government or private entities. 
1.10 “FDA” means the United States Food and Drug Administration. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-17 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
2 
1.11 “Imminent Threat to Public Health” means a significant threat or danger to 
health is considered to exist when there is evidence sufficient to show that 
a product, practice, circumstance, or event creates a situation that is 
substantially likely to pose a significant danger considering the number of 
potential injuries and the nature, severity, and duration of the anticipated 
injury to human health that: 
(1) 
should be corrected immediately to prevent injury and, 
(2) 
should not be permitted to continue while an investigation, hearing, or 
other formal process is being held. 
The imminent threat may be declared at any point in the chain of events 
which ultimately result in harm to the public. The occurrence of the final 
anticipated injury is not essential to establish that an imminent threat of 
such occurrence exists. 
1.12 “Mixed-Type Facility” has the same meaning as set forth in 21 CFR 112.3. 
1.13 “Produce” has the same meaning as set forth in 21 CFR 112.3. 
1.14 “Produce Safety Act” means the Colorado Produce Safety Act, Title 35, Article 
77, C.R.S. 
1.15 “Program” means the Produce Safety Program within the Colorado Department 
of Agriculture. 
1.16 “Registrant” means a covered farm that is required to register pursuant to the 
Act. 
1.17 “Registration” means the annual submission of a registration form to the 
Commissioner identifying a covered farm and complying with the requirements of 
Title 35, Article 77, C.R.S. 
1.18 “Registration Period” means the time when submission of required information to 
the Program occurs. 
1.19 “Regulated Person” means a grower, grower-shipper, harvester, packer, cooler 
or holder that is a farm, as defined in 21 CFR 112.3 and is subject to any of the 
requirements of the Act and these Rules. 
1.20 “Routine Regulatory Inspection” means an inspection of a Regulated Person’s 
farm to monitor for compliance with these Produce Safety Rules. 
Part 2 ADOPTION OF FEDERAL CODE 
2.1 
Material incorporated by reference does not include any later amendments or 
editions of the incorporated material. Copies of material incorporated by

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-17 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
3 
reference in these Rules is available for public inspection during regular business 
hours. This incorporated material may be obtained at a reasonable charge or 
examined by contacting the Department of Agriculture, 305 Interlocken Parkway, 
Broomfield, CO 80021 or at the offices of the US. Food and Drug Administration, 
10903 New Hampshire Avenue, Silver Spring, MD 20993. Further, the 
incorporated material may be examined at no cost on the Internet at: 
21 CFR § 112, Subpart A, B, C, D, F, I, K, L, N, O, Q, and R, (2015): 
https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfCFR/CFRSearch.cfm?CFR
Part=112 
21 CFR § 112, Subpart E (2024): 
https://www.accessdata.fda.gov/scripts/cdrh/cfdocs/cfCFR/CFRSearch.cfm?CFR
Part=112 
21 USC § 342 (2024): 
https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=(title:21%20section:342%20edition:prel
im)%20OR%20(granuleid:USC-prelim-title21-
section342)&f=treesort&edition=prelim&num=0&jumpTo=true 
 
 
Part 3 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT 
3.1 
A farm or mixed type facility, that conducts Covered Activity of any Covered 
Produce at any primary production farm or secondary activities farm location, and 
which the average annual monetary value of produce sold during the previous 
three-year period is more than average monetary value determined in Part 3.5 of 
this Rule, must register and is subject to the General Provisions in Subpart A of 
21 CFR § 112, “Standards for Growing, Harvesting, Packing, and Holding of 
Produce for Human Consumption,” published November 27, 2015. 
3.2 
A farm that is eligible for a qualified exemption, as defined in Subpart A of 21 
CFR § 112.5, must register with the Department and is only subject to sections of 
Subpart A of 21 CFR § 112, “Standards for Growing, Harvesting, Packing, and 
Holding of Produce for Human Consumption”, stated in 21 CFR § 112.6 and 
112.7 
3.3 
Registration and the General Provisions of Subpart A of 21 CFR § 112 do not 
apply to a farm or mixed-type facility that has an annual monetary value of 
produce sold during the previous three year period that is less than the monetary 
value determined in Part 3.5 of this Rule, even if that farm or mixed-type facility 
conducts Covered Activity. 
3.4 
Each farm, or mixed type facility, required to register shall do so annually during 
the registration period of November 1 to December 31. Such registration shall be

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-17 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
4 
completed by the submission of a form in the manner required by the 
Commissioner. All such information shall be complete and accurate. 
3.5 
For the 2026 registration year of January 1, 2026, to December 31, 2026, a farm 
that sold an average monetary value of produce during 2022, 2023, and 2024 
with more than $33,297 must register with the Department. 
Part 4 GENERAL PROVISIONS 
4.1 
These Rules incorporate by reference the General Provisions in Subpart A of 21 
CFR § 112, “Standards for Growing, Harvesting, Packing, and Holding of 
Produce for Human Consumption”, published November 27, 2015. Such 
incorporation excludes any later amendments or editions. 
Part 5 RESERVED 
Part 6 CONFIDENTIALITY OF RECORDS 
6.1 
Farm records are confidential pursuant to §35-77-107, C.R.S. and §24-72-204, 
C.R.S. 
6.2 
Complaints of record, investigations, and inspection reports may, at the 
discretion of the Commissioner, be closed to public inspection except to the 
person of interest, as defined in §24-72-202, C.R.S., or as provided by court 
order. 
Part 7 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 
7.1 
These Rules incorporate by reference the General Requirements in Subpart B of 
21 CFR § 112, “Standards for Growing, Harvesting, Packing, and Holding of 
Produce for Human Consumption”, published November 27, 2015. Such 
incorporation excludes any later amendments or editions. 
7.2 
Each Regulated Person must take appropriate measures to minimize the risk of 
serious adverse health consequences or death from the use of, or exposure to, 
covered produce, including those measures reasonably necessary to prevent the 
introduction of known or reasonably foreseeable hazards into covered produce, 
and to provide reasonable assurances that the produce is not adulterated, on 
account of such hazards. 
Part 8 PERSONNEL QUALIFICATIONS AND TRAINING 
8.1 
These Rules incorporate by reference all the Personnel Qualifications and 
Training requirements found in Subpart C of 21 CFR § 112, “Standards for 
Growing, Harvesting, Packing, and Holding of Produce for Human Consumption,” 
published November 27, 2015. Such incorporation excludes any later 
amendments or editions.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-17 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
5 
Part 9 HEALTH AND HYGIENE 
9.1 
These Rules incorporate by reference all the Health and Hygiene requirements 
found in Subpart D of 21 CFR § 112, “Standards for Growing, Harvesting, 
Packing, and Holding of Produce for Human Consumption,” published November 
27, 2015. Such incorporation excludes any later amendments or editions. 
Part 10 
AGRICULTURAL WATER 
10.1 These Rules incorporate by reference all the Agricultural Water requirements 
found in Subpart E of 21 CFR § 112, “Standards for Growing, Harvesting, 
Packing, and Holding of Produce for Human Consumption,” published May 6, 
2024. Such incorporation excludes any later amendments or editions. 
Part 11 
BIOLOGICAL SOIL AMENDMENTS OF ANIMAL ORIGIN AND HUMAN 
WASTE 
11.1 These Rules incorporate by reference all the Biological Soil Amendments of 
Animal Origin and Human Waste requirements found in Subpart F of 21 CFR § 
112, “Standards for Growing, Harvesting, Packing, and Holding of Produce for 
Human Consumption,” published November 27, 2015. Such incorporation 
excludes any later amendments or editions. 
Part 12 
RESERVED 
Part 13 
RESERVED 
Part 14 
DOMESTICATED AND WILD ANIMALS 
14.1 These Rules incorporate by reference all the Domesticated and Wild Animals 
requirements found in Subpart I of 21 CFR § 112, “Standards for Growing, 
Harvesting, Packing, and Holding of Produce for Human Consumption,” 
published November 27, 2015. Such incorporation excludes any later 
amendments or editions. 
Part 15 
RESERVED 
Part 16 
GROWING, HARVESTING, PACKING and HOLDING ACTIVITIES 
16.1 These Rules incorporate by reference all the Growing, Harvesting, Packing and 
Holding Activity requirements found in Subpart K of 21 CFR § 112, “Standards 
for Growing, Harvesting, Packing, and Holding of Produce for Human 
Consumption,” published November 27, 2015. Such incorporation excludes any 
later amendments or editions.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-17 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
6 
Part 17 
EQUIPMENT, TOOLS, BUILDINGS, AND SANITATION 
17.1 These Rules incorporate by reference all the Equipment, Tools, Buildings and 
Sanitation requirements found in Subpart L of 21 CFR § 112, “Standards for 
Growing, Harvesting, Packing, and Holding of Produce for Human Consumption,” 
published November 27, 2015. Such incorporation excludes any later 
amendments or editions. 
Part 18 
RESERVED 
Part 19 
ANALYTICAL METHODS 
19.1 These Rules incorporate by reference all the Analytical Methods requirements 
found in Subpart N of 21 CFR § 112, “Standards for Growing, Harvesting, 
Packing, and Holding of Produce for Human Consumption,” published November 
27, 2015. Such incorporation excludes any later amendments or editions. 
Part 20 
RECORDS 
20.1 These Rules incorporate by reference all the Records requirements found in 
Subpart O of 21 CFR § 112, “Standards for Growing, Harvesting, Packing, and 
Holding of Produce for Human Consumption,” published November 27, 2015. 
Such incorporation excludes any later amendments or editions. 
Part 21 
RESERVED 
Part 22 
COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT 
22.1 These Rules incorporate by reference all the Compliance and Enforcement 
requirements found in Subpart Q of 21 CFR § 112, “Standards for Growing, 
Harvesting, Packing, and Holding of Produce for Human Consumption,” 
published November 27, 2015. Such incorporation excludes any later 
amendments or editions. 
Part 23 
WITHDRAWAL OF QUALIFIED EXEMPTIONS 
23.1 These Rules incorporate by reference all the Withdrawal of Qualified Exemption 
requirements found in Subpart R of 21 CFR § 112, “Standards for Growing, 
Harvesting, Packing, and Holding of Produce for Human Consumption,” 
published November 27, 2015. Such incorporation excludes any later 
amendments or editions. 
Part 24 
UNLAWFUL ACTS 
24.1 In addition to the Unlawful Acts in section §35-77-109, C.R.S., any Regulated 
Person or Registered entity will be subject to a civil penalty up to $2500 per 
violation for:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-17 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
7 
24.1.1 Failing to timely register with the Program; 
24.1.2 Providing false, inaccurate or misleading information to the Commissioner 
or Department of Agriculture; or 
24.1.3 Failing to comply with any of the requirements in Part 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 
14, 16, 17, 19, 20, 22, 23, 24 or 25 of these Rules. 
Part 25 
STOP SALE, RECALL, EMBARGO, QUARANTINE 
25.1 In addition to the requirements for inspection under Part 26, the Commissioner or 
the Commissioner’s designee may take the following as the result of an 
inspection or during an investigation: 
25.1.1 Require a corrective action plan for violations that pose either some risk to 
human health or an imminent threat to human health; 
25.1.2 Examine and collect environmental, water or covered produce samples for 
laboratory analysis; 
25.1.3 Initiate a stop sale, recall, embargo or quarantine for violations that pose 
an imminent threat to public health or adulteration; 
25.1.3.1 
The reason for the stop sale, recall, embargo or quarantine 
shall be documented on the Order. 
25.1.3.2 
The affected produce shall not be sold, used or removed 
until the violation is corrected, if possible. 
25.1.3.3 
The Regulated Person is responsible for the storage and, if 
necessary, the destruction of the affected produce. 
25.1.3.3.1 
If storage facilities are not available, the Regulated 
Person is responsible for any costs incurred to store the 
affected produce. 
25.1.3.3.2 
The Regulated Person is responsible for any 
additional fees associated with the affected produce. 
25.1.3.4 
If the produce subject to a stop sale, recall, embargo or 
quarantine is found not to be adulterated or associated with a 
violation that poses an imminent threat to public health, it shall be 
released. 
25.1.3.5 
Failure to comply with the conditions of a stop sale, recall, 
embargo or quarantine may result in administrative penalties 
pursuant to section 35-77-110, C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-17 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
8 
25.1.4 Require follow-up inspections to ensure compliance with the corrective 
action plan and these Rules or the Act; 
25.1.5 Refer violations for further enforcement action, if necessary. 
25.2 Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the Department’s authority to 
issue cease-and-desist orders to respond to a condition that may present a 
public health hazard, or to issue orders necessary to effectuate the purpose of 
the Act and these Rules. 
Part 26 
INSPECTIONS 
26.1 For each registration period and prior to any Routine Regulatory Inspection, a 
Regulated Person or authorized representative, must attest that the Regulated 
Person understands that the Regulated Person has specific rights regarding a 
Routine Regulatory Inspection. A Regulated Person’s attestation shall be 
completed in a form established by the Commissioner, referred to as the Notice 
of Inspection Rights. The form must include attestations that the Regulated 
Person understands the Regulated Person has the right to: 
26.1.1 Receive notification at least five (5) days in advance of a Routine 
Regulatory Inspection of their farm. 
26.1.2 Meet with the Commissioner prior to the start of a Routine Regulatory 
Inspection to explain ongoing operations and to ask questions about the 
inspection process. 
26.1.3 Escort the Commissioner at all times while observing the Regulated 
Person’s operations. 
 
26.1.4 Discuss any observations of these Produce Safety Rules with the 
Commissioner away from the production area of the Registered Person’s 
operations. The provisions of this section shall not limit the 
Commissioner’s ability to issue a cease-and-desist Order, assess an 
administrative penalty, or otherwise enforce regulatory provisions at a later 
date pursuant to C.R.S. § 35-77-108 or C.R.S. § 35-77-110. 
26.2 The Commissioner reserves the right to conduct an inspection without the notice 
specified in 26.1.1 under the following conditions: 
26.2.1 The Regulated Person cannot be reached at the contact information 
provided at the time of Registration; 
26.2.2 The Commissioner wishes to ascertain whether corrections have been 
made to address a previous violation of these Produce Safety Rules;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-17 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
9 
26.2.3 The Commissioner has a reasonable belief that the Registrant is in 
violation of these Produce Safety Rules resulting in a risk to public health. 
26.3 Regulated Persons who meet the criteria for a qualified exemption pursuant to 
Part 3.2 shall not be subject to Routine Regulatory Inspection, but may be 
subject to limited records inspections to confirm compliance. 
Part 27 
STATEMENT OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND 
PURPOSE 
27.1 Adopted September 9, 2020. Effective Oct 30, 2020 
Statutory Authority 
The Commissioner of Agriculture adopts these rules pursuant to §35-77-106(1), C.R.S. 
Purpose 
The Purpose of this rulemaking is to define the administration and enforcement of the 
Colorado Produce Safety Act, §§35-77-101 through 111, C.R.S. These rules 
incorporate 21 CFR 112, “Standards for Growing, Harvesting, Packing, and Holding of 
Produce for Human Consumption,” define Colorado registration requirements and 
timelines, and establish confidentiality protections for farm records and registrants. 
Factual and Policy Basis 
House Bill 19-1114, Colorado’s Produce Safety Act, was passed by the General 
Assembly and signed into law by Governor Polis in 2019. The Act, codified in §§35-77-
101 through 111, C.R.S., authorized the creation of a program within the Department, in 
lieu of the FDA, to regulate the safe production, handling, packing and storage of 
produce as defined in 21 CFR Part 112. This rulemaking provides definitions, 
references and rules to assist in the administration and enforcement of Colorado’s 
Produce Safety Act. 
27.2 Adopted September 8, 2021 - Effective October 30, 2021 
Statutory Authority 
The Commissioner of Agriculture adopts these rules pursuant to §35-77-106(1), C.R.S. 
Purpose 
The purpose of this rule change is to increase the threshold limit for farms Exempt from 
the rule. 
Factual and Policy Basis 
Increased limits allowed for Exempt status are consistent with FDA’s annual adjusted 
for inflation calculations.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-17 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
10 
27.3 Adopted October 12, 2022 – Effective December 15, 2022 
Statutory Authority 
The Commissioner of Agriculture adopts these rules pursuant to §35-77-106(1), C.R.S. 
Purpose 
The purpose of this rule change is to increase the threshold limit for farms Exempt from 
the rule. 
 
Factual and Policy Basis 
Increased limits allowed for Exempt status are consistent with FDA’s annual adjusted 
for inflation calculations. 
27.4 Adopted July 12, 2023 – Effective October 30, 2023 
Statutory Authority 
Adoption authority for these rules pursuant to §35-77-106(1), C.R.S. 
Purpose 
The purpose of this rule change is to increase the threshold limit for farms Exempt from 
the rule. 
Factual and Policy Basis 
Increased limits allowed for Exempt status are consistent with FDA’s annual adjusted 
for inflation calculations. 
27.5 Adopted July 10, 2024 – Effective September 15, 2024 
Statutory Authority 
Adoption authority for these rules pursuant to §§ 35-77-104(2) and 106(1), C.R.S. 
Purpose 
The purpose of this rule change is to increase the threshold limit for farms Exempt from 
the rule. 
Factual and Policy Basis 
Increased limits allowed for Exempt status are consistent with FDA’s annual adjusted 
for inflation calculations.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-17 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
11 
27.6 Adopted November 19, 2024 – Effective January 14, 2025 
Statutory Authority 
These rules are pursuant to the Commissioner of Agriculture’s authority under §35-77-
105 C.R.S. 
Purpose 
The purpose of this rule change is to incorporate by reference revisions to 21 C.F.R 
Part 112 Subpart E, published May 6, 2024, which replaces the previous version, 
published on March 18, 2019. 
Factual and Policy Basis 
In 2024, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) set out to revise Subpart E of 21 
C.F.R. Part 112, “Standards for the Growing, Harvesting, Packing, and Holding of 
Produce for Human Consumption.” FDA’s revisions replace annual water testing with a 
more current, water-systems-based assessment. The Department has incorporated this 
revised subpart to maintain its consistency with FDA’s safety and testing requirements 
related to how produce for human consumption is grown, harvested, packed, and held 
in Colorado. 
27.7 Adopted September 17, 2025 – Effective November 14, 2025 
Statutory Authority 
These rules are pursuant to the Commissioner of Agriculture’s authority under § 35-77-
105 and 106(a), C.R.S., to adopt any rules necessary to implement the Produce Safety 
Act. 
Purpose 
The purpose of this rule change is to define “Adulterated,” “Imminent Threat to Human 
Health,” and “Regulated Person”; to increase the threshold limit for farms exempt from 
the rule; and to authorize the Commissioner to issue corrective action plans and orders 
to stop sale, recall, embargo, or quarantine when necessary to protect human health. 
Factual and Policy Basis 
The definitions were added to provide clear meaning for produce that may not be 
suitable for human consumption and clarify that a regulated person includes both those 
who have registered and those who have not registered but who are subject to the 
provisions of the Act. Increasing the threshold limits allowed for exempt status to be 
consistent with FDA’s annual, adjusted-for-inflation calculations.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-17 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
12 
Because protecting human health from food-borne illness is critical, these rules are 
necessary to prevent covered produce that may pose a threat to human health from 
entering or remaining in commerce. Increasing the Commissioner’s remedial actions to 
include corrective action plans and orders to stop sale, recall, embargo, and quarantine 
will increase the Commissioner’s ability to meet the over-arching goals of the Produce 
Safety Act. 
27.8 Adopted January 21, 2026 – Effective March 17, 2026 
Statutory Authority 
These rules are pursuant to the Commissioner of Agriculture’s authority under § 35-77-
105 and 106(a), C.R.S., to adopt any rules necessary to implement the Produce Safety 
Act. 
Purpose 
The purpose of this rule change is to remove the incorporation by reference of the 
United States Code in the definition of "adulterated.” 
Factual and Policy Basis 
Because the State Administrative Procedure Act (§ 24-4-103, C.R.S.) does not permit 
incorporation by reference of the United States Code, the reviewers propose amending 
the definition of “adulterated” to remove the incorporation by reference and to, instead, 
refer to the section of the United States Code (the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic 
Act) where the definition of “adulterated” is located.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-17 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
13 
______________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 10/30/2020. 
Rules 3.5, 27.2 eff. 10/30/2021. 
Rules 3.5, 27.3 eff. 12/15/2022. 
Rules 3.5, 27.4 eff. 10/30/2023. 
Rules 3.5, 27.5 eff. 09/15/2024. 
Rules 2.1, 10.1, 27.6 eff. 01/14/2025. 
Rules 1-2, 3.5, 7.2, 24.1, 25-26, 27.7 eff. 11/14/2025. 
Rule 1.2, 27.8 eff. 03/17/2026.
