---
id: "8_CCR_1507-80"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1507-80"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=11630&fileName=8%20CCR%201507-80&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1507-80. 8 CCR 1507-80

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY 
Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Management 
Office of Public Safety Communications 
PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATIONS TRUST FUND 
8 CCR 1507-80 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
1. 
Authority 
This rule is adopted pursuant to § 24-33.5-2505(1)(h) and (i), C.R.S. and the State Administrative 
Procedure Act § 24-4-101 et seq. C.R.S. 
2. 
Scope and Purpose 
This rule governs the Public Safety Communications Trust Fund, the administration of discretionary 
distributions and repayment of such monies by state and local governments. 
3. 
Applicability 
This rule applies to all local governments and state agencies as defined by 24-33.5-2505(4)(I-II), C.R.S. 
4. 
Definitions 
“Director” means the Director of the Office of Public Safety Communications as appointed by the Director 
of the Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Management. 
“Division” means the Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Management within the Colorado 
Department of Public Safety as created in section 24-33.5-1603, C.R.S. 
“Eligible Entities” means the local governments and state agencies that support public safety that may be 
called upon to deal with natural disasters, health emergencies, acts of terrorism, and other threats to 
public safety. 
“Fund” means the public safety communications trust fund created in section 24-33.5-2510, C.R.S. 
“Interoperable Communications” means the ability of public safety agencies in various disciplines and 
jurisdictions to communicate with each other on demand and in real time by voice or date using 
compatible radio communication systems or other technology. 
“Local Government” means a city, county, municipality, city and county, tribal government, or any other 
political subdivision of the state that is not a state agency. 
“Office” means the Office of Public Safety Communications created in section 24-33.5-2502, C.R.S. 
“Public Safety Agency” means an agency providing law enforcement, fire protection, emergency medical, 
or emergency response services. 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-80 
Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Management 
 
2 
“Public Safety Communications Systems” means the interoperable public safety radio communications 
systems conforming with the statewide digital trunked radio system plan and designed to provide instant 
and disruption-resistant communication capability for law enforcement agencies and other eligible entities 
that may be called upon to deal with natural disasters, health emergencies, acts of terrorism, and other 
threats to public health and safety. 
“Quarterly Progress Report” means a written form or other document determine by the state agency to 
indicate and report the operational and financial activity of the recipient during the time period specified. 
“Reimbursement Request” means a written form or other document determined by the state agency to 
indicate and report the operational and financial activity of the recipient during the time period specified. 
“Region” means an all-hazard emergency management region established by executive order of the 
Governor. 
“State Agency” means any department, division, commission, council, board, bureau, committee, office, 
agency, or other governmental unit of the state. 
“Summary Report” means a written form or other document determined by the state agency allowing the 
fund recipients to report the final operational and financial activity of the funds. 
5. 
Program Requirements 
5.1 
Eligibility 
The principal and interest held in the public safety communications trust fund are available to eligible 
entities, upon application to the Office, and with the approval of the Director of the Office of Public Safety 
Communications or delegate, to cover the acquisition, maintenance, or lease of any public safety radio 
communications systems equipment or other communication devices or equipment by eligible entities 
conforming with the statewide digital trunked radio system plan. 
The Fund may be used to pay the direct and indirect costs, including personal services and operating 
costs, associated with administering public safety communications. 
5.2 
Considerations 
A. 
The Director of the Office of Public Safety Communications or delegate, acting within their 
discretion, shall consider, without limitation, the following factors in authorizing distributions of 
fund moneys for reimbursement, or for the purchase, leasing, contracting for, or other acquisition 
of public safety communications equipment for or by eligible entities: 
(1) 
The need for achieving functional interoperability among local, state, and federal public 
safety radio communications systems by acquiring equipment that meets emerging 
technical standards for systems interoperability and open network architecture; 
(2) 
The needs of eligible entities that have recently invested in new radio systems, 
particularly in regard to interoperability; 
(3) 
The promotion of an orderly transition from analog-based to digital-based radio systems; 
and 
(4) 
The current communications coverage, expansion of coverage and/or resolution of 
coverage gaps in underserved areas of Colorado.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-80 
Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Management 
 
3 
B. 
The amount of any distribution for reimbursement or for the purchase of equipment or devices 
constituting system infrastructure which would allow interoperability between a local government 
communications system and the statewide public safety radio communications systems will be 
paid in accordance with the terms of the state digital trunked radio system plan. The extent to 
which such expenses will be covered by fund moneys will depend on compliance with the plan, 
funds available and prior coordination and prior approval by the Office. 
C. 
All expenditures made for the acquisition, maintenance, or lease of communication systems 
equipment or devices from distributions of fund moneys shall be made pursuant to the 
requirements set forth under the Colorado Procurement Code, sections 24-101-101, et seq., 
CRS. If the Code does not address a specific situation, then expenditure of funds will require 
approval from the Director of the Office of Public Safety Communications or delegate. 
D. 
Expenditures are reimbursable or otherwise eligible for distribution from the fund to the extent 
moneys remain available in the fund. 
5.3 
Request for Funding and Approval Process 
A. 
Eligible entities must submit an application letter of estimated costs, supporting eligibility 
documentation and an implementation schedule to the Office of Public Safety Communications 
for approval to receive reimbursement from the Fund. 
B. 
Upon receipt of an application letter, the Office staff shall review the request and issue a written 
recommendation to the Director or delegate, who will render a decision. Written notification of the 
decision shall be made to the applicant within ninety (90) days including the amount of any 
distributions to be paid and identifying any non-qualifying costs, if approved. 
C. 
Upon notification of approval to receive Fund reimbursement, the applicant shall enter into a 
written agreement with the Office, with the approval of the Director or delegate, concerning any 
terms and/or conditions for distributions made, including without limitation, terms for repayment of 
amounts paid, any buy-in commitments for participation in the statewide digital trunked radio 
system, or any obligation to pay an annual user or other type of fee for participation in the state 
system. In the event equipment or devices are directly purchased by the Office with fund moneys 
and then leased to the applicant, a written lease agreement shall be executed by the parties. 
D. 
Approved applicants may then apply for distribution of fund moneys for reimbursement of costs or 
to purchase qualifying public safety communications systems equipment or devices using 
application forms provided by the Office. Applications for reimbursement must be filed within 
ninety (90) days of the incurred expenditures. 
5.4 
Distribution of Funds 
A. 
For local government awardees, funds will be distributed according to the terms of the written 
Agreement entered into with the Office and according to any additional terms of the Division of 
Homeland Security and Emergency Management. 
B. 
For state agency awardees, funds will be distributed according to the terms of the written 
Agreement entered into with the Office and according to the terms in the approved State of 
Colorado Interagency Agreement. 
C. 
Based upon an articulated need, the Office may advance funds to awardees with the approval of 
the Director or delegate.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-80 
Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Management 
 
4 
5.5 
Reporting Requirements 
A. 
Awardees will provide the Office with reports consistent with the requirements in the appropriate 
written agreement, Divisional agreement if applicable, or interagency agreement, including, but 
not limited to: 
(1) 
Quarterly Progress Reports; 
(2) 
Summary Report upon completion of the project; and 
(3) 
Reimbursement Requests. 
5.6 
Restrictions 
A. 
The statutory provisions for the Public Safety Communications Trust Fund in Part 25 to article 
33.5 of title 24, C.R.S. do not apply to the Legislative Department of the State of Colorado. 
B. 
Local and internal public safety communications networks of institutions of higher education may 
be exempted from the provisions of Part 25 to article 33.5 of title 24 C.R.S. upon application to 
the Director of the Office of Public Safety Communications; except that all systems must be 
certified by the Director of the Office of Public Safety Communications as being technically 
compatible with plans and networks as described in section 24-33.5-2505(1), C.R.S. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 01/14/2024. 
Entire rule eff. 09/30/2024.
