---
id: "8_CCR_1202-2"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1202-2"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=5823&fileName=8%20CCR%201202-2&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1202-2. 8 CCR 1202-2

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
MEASUREMENT STANDARDS 
8 CCR 1202-2 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Part 1. Qualifications for Certified Weigher Certificate 
1.1. 
Training 
Must have completed training by a competent scale operator on procedures for operating scales. 
1.2. 
Written Exam 
Applicants must pass a written exam furnished by the Commissioner and each applicant must score 75% 
or better on the exam to be considered for certification. 
Part 2  
Certification of Commercial Weighing and Measuring Device Service Providers 
2.1. 
Requirements for Certification 
Applicants must score 90% or better on a written exam furnished by the Commissioner in order to be 
considered for certification. 
2.2. 
Certificate Categories 
2.2.1 
One service person; 
2.2.2 
Two to five service persons; 
2.2.3 
Six to ten service persons; 
2.2.4 
More than ten service persons. 
Part 3. Placing In Service Requirements 
3.1. 
Commercial weighing and measuring device service providers shall submit a placing in service 
report to the Commissioner within 10 calendar days after the placing in service date. 
3.2. 
A commercial weighing and measuring device service provider must own the standards used to 
place a commercial device into commercial service unless: 
3.2.1. 
The Commissioner is informed in advance that the commercial weighing and measuring 
device service provider will use standards other than its own to repair, service or place in 
service a commercial weighing and measuring device and, if such standards were 
approved by another NIST recognized state metrology laboratory, provide the 
commissioner with copies of that owner's current approval certificates for those standards 
and; 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
2 
3.2.2. 
The owner of the standards provides the Commissioner with written consent allowing the 
use of the standards by the commercial weighing and measuring device service provider 
and specifying the time period during which such use is authorized. 
3.3. 
For scales with a capacity greater than 2,000 lb., a copy of the scale test report shall accompany 
the placing in service report. The scale test report shall include the values of all applied test 
weights and indicated weights used to place the device into service. 
3.4. 
No person may place in service a commercial weighing or measuring device unless that device 
complies with §35-14-105 C.R.S. 
3.5. 
Device service providers who repair, service or place in service a commercial weighing and 
measuring device shall submit to the Commissioner a placing in service report that contains the 
following information: 
3.5.1. 
The date the device(s) were placed into service; 
3.5.2. 
The owner or user of the device(s); 
3.5.3. 
The physical address, city and zip code of where the device(s) is located, and the 
location of or directions to the device(s) if the devices(s) is not located at the actual 
physical address listed on the in service report; 
3.5.4. 
The phone number of the owner or user of the device(s); 
3.5.5. 
The location of or directions to the device(s) if the physical address of the device is not 
wholly informative; 
3.5.6. 
The device(s) type; 
3.5.7. 
The device(s) capacity; 
3.5.8. 
The device(s) manufacturer; 
3.5.9. 
The device(s) model number; 
3.5.10. The device(s) serial number; 
3.5.11. The device(s) scale division, or unit of measure of device(s) if not a scale; 
3.5.12. The device(s) national type evaluation certificate of conformance number; 
3.5.13. The accuracy class of the device(s); 
3.5.14. A description of the work performed on the device(s) including whether a new device(s) 
was installed, a rejected/previously existing device(s) was replaced with a new device(s), 
or if a device(s) was repaired, and what repairs were made; 
3.5.15. The printed name of the service person who placed the device(s) into service or use; 
3.5.16. The device service provider business name; 
3.5.17. The device service provider certificate number. 
Part 4. Scales Used for Commercial Purposes

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
3 
4.1. 
Any scale used to determine a monetary charge where the weight is a consideration in 
determining the sale price is a commercial weighing and measuring device. 
4.2. 
Scales used for commercial purposes to buy or sell commodities that have a total weight of 3 
ounces or less shall be class II, National Type Evaluation Program compliant and have a scale 
division of not greater than 0.01 gram. 
Part 5. Tolerance Criteria for Rejected Devices 
5.1. 
Work orders or condemned device tags shall be issued for devices for which the owner is 
required to be licensed in the following circumstances: 
5.1.1. 
For devices with a capacity up to and including 2,000 lbs.: 
5.1.1.1. If the allowable tolerance is specified in terms of divisions, a blue work order tag 
shall be placed on a scale that exceeds the allowable tolerance by up to and 
including three divisions. 
5.1.1.2. If the allowable tolerance is specified in terms of divisions, a red condemned 
device tag shall be placed on a scale that exceeds the allowable tolerance by 
more than three divisions. 
5.1.2. 
For devices with a capacity greater than 2,000 lbs.: 
5.1.2.1. If the allowable tolerance is specified in terms of divisions, a blue work order tag 
shall be placed on a scale that exceeds the allowable tolerance by up to and 
including three times the allowed divisions. 
5.1.2.2. If the allowable tolerance is specified in terms of divisions, a red condemned 
device tag shall be placed on a scale that exceeds the allowable tolerance by 
more than three times the allowed divisions. 
Part 6. License and Certificate Expiration Dates 
6.1. 
The expiration date for a license to operate a commercial weighing and measuring device shall 
be December 31. 
6.2. 
The expiration date for a certified weigher certificate shall be December 31. 
6.3. 
The expiration date for a commercial weighing and measuring device service provider certificate 
shall be December 31. 
Parts 7 – 8. 
Reserved 
Part 9. Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose 
The Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose for rulemaking activity from 
1978 to 1986 are no longer in the Department’s files. 
1. 
Emergency Rule Adopted July 1, 2009 – Effective July 1, 2009 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY:

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
4 
The Commissioner's authority for the adoption of these Emergency Rule Amendments is set forth in §§ 
35-14-107(1)(o), 121(3), C.R.S. (2008), § 35-1-107(5)(a), C.R.S. (2008), § 24-4-103(6) C.R.S., (2008), 
and §§ 35-14-121(5), 123(1), 123(2)(a), 123(2)(b), and 127(1), C.R.S., as enacted in SB 09-113. 
PURPOSE: 
The purpose of these Emergency Rule Amendments is to update the rules pertaining to the Measurement 
Standards Act of 1983 to comply with the amendments to the Act set forth in SB 09-113. 
These Amendments: 
a. 
Establish the license expiration date for operation of commercial weighing and measuring 
devices. 
b. 
Establish the certified weigher certificate expiration date for those individuals who obtain a 
certificate on or after July 1, 2009. 
c. 
Establish the certificate expiration date for commercial weighing and measuring device service 
providers who obtain a certificate on or after July 1, 2009. 
d. 
Establish commercial weighing and measuring device service provider certification categories 
and performance requirements. 
e. 
Amend commercial weighing and measuring device service provider certification requirements to 
clarify the requirements are for the company, not the individual service person employed by the 
company. 
f. 
Add a section to contain the statements of basis, specific statutory authority and purpose. 
FACTUAL AND POLICY BASIS: 
The factual and policy issues that require the immediate adoption of these Emergency Rule Amendments 
are as follows: 
1. 
The Department of Regulatory Agencies performed a Sunset Review in 2008 of the Colorado 
Measurement Standards Act, which resulted in several amendments to the Act enacted by the 
General Assembly in SB 09-113, effective July 1, 2009, that: 
a. 
Remove statutory expiration dates for device licenses, certified weigher and device 
service providers and requires the Commissioner to establish such dates in rule. 
b. 
Require the Commissioner to establish commercial weighing and measuring device 
service provider certification categories and performance requirements. 
2. 
The existing rule sets forth certification requirements for individuals, but the statute requires the 
business to obtain the certificate. The amendment clarifies that the requirements for certification 
of service providers is for the company, not an individual. 
3. 
The Commissioner hereby finds that immediate adoption of these Emergency Rule Amendments 
is imperatively necessary to comply with the revisions to the Colorado Measurement Standards 
Act of 1983, §§ 35-14-101 – 134, C.R.S., enacted by the General Assembly in its 2009 legislative 
session, which take effect on July 1, 2009. These Emergency Rule Amendments are required to 
permit the continuous and uninterrupted administration and enforcement of the Act, including the 
issuance of licenses and certificates thereunder.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
5 
2. 
Adopted July 16, 2009 – Effective August 30, 2009 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 
The Commissioner's authority for the adoption of these Permanent Rule Amendments is set forth in §§ 
35-14-107(1)(o), 121(3), C.R.S. (2008), § 35-1-107(5)(a), C.R.S. (2008), and §§ 35-14-121(5), 123(1), 
123(2)(a), 123(2)(b), and 127(1), C.R.S., as enacted in SB 09-113. 
PURPOSE: 
The purpose of these Permanent Rule Amendments is to update the rules pertaining to the Measurement 
Standards Act of 1983 to comply with the amendments to the Act set forth in SB 09-113. 
These Permanent Rule Amendments: 
a. 
Establish the license expiration date for operation of commercial weighing and measuring 
devices. 
b. 
Establish the certified weigher certificate expiration date for those individuals who obtain a 
certificate on or after July 1, 2009. 
c. 
Establish the certificate expiration date for commercial weighing and measuring device service 
providers who obtain a certificate on or after July 1, 2009. 
d. 
Establish commercial weighing and measuring device service provider certification categories 
and performance requirements. 
e. 
Amend commercial weighing and measuring device service provider certification requirements to 
clarify the requirements are for the company, not the individual service person employed by the 
company. 
f. 
Add a section to contain the statements of basis, specific statutory authority and purpose. 
g. 
Correct typographical errors throughout the rule. 
FACTUAL AND POLICY BASIS: 
The factual and policy issues pertaining to the adoption of these Permanent Rule Amendments are as 
follows: 
1. 
The Department of Regulatory Agencies performed a Sunset Review in 2008 of the Colorado 
Measurement Standards Act, which resulted in several amendments to the Act enacted by the 
General Assembly in SB 09-113, effective July 1, 2009, that: 
a. 
Remove statutory expiration dates for device licenses, certified weigher and device 
service providers and requires the Commissioner to establish such dates in rule. 
b. 
Require the Commissioner to establish commercial weighing and measuring device 
service provider certification categories and performance requirements. 
2. 
The existing rule sets forth certification requirements for individuals, but the statute requires the 
business to obtain the certificate. The amendment clarifies that the requirements for certification 
of service providers is for the company, not an individual.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
6 
3. 
The Commissioner intends to adopt Emergency Amendments to the Rules on July 1, 2009 in 
order to implement the changes to the Act made by the General Assembly in SB 09-113. These 
Permanent Amendments will make permanent those Emergency Amendments. 
3. 
Adopted April 9, 2013 – Effective January 1, 2014 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 
The Commissioner's authority for the adoption of these Permanent Rule Amendments is set forth in § 35-
14-107(1)(o) and § 35-1-107(5)(a), C.R.S. 
PURPOSE: 
The purpose of this Permanent Rule Amendment is to amend Regulation 8 1.1 to change the license 
expiration date for operation of commercial weighing and measuring devices from June 30 to December 
31. 
FACTUAL AND POLICY BASIS: 
The factual and policy issues pertaining to the adoption of these Permanent Rule Amendments are as 
follows: 
1. 
This change is necessary to allow the Department to consolidate licensing functions to one time 
per year for all licenses issued by the ICS Division. 
2. 
The Department of Agriculture is moving its licensing functions from a paper based system to an 
online system. To accommodate licensee’s who hold multiple licenses with the Department of 
Agriculture, we are establishing a common licensing date so a licensee can obtain all their 
licenses in one transaction. 
4. 
Adopted June 11, 2014 – Effective July 30, 2014 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 
The Commissioner of Agriculture, is authorized to adopt these permanent rules pursuant to §§ 35-14-107 
(1)(o), 35-14-123 (2)(b), 35-14-123 (7), and 35-14-124 (5), C.R.S. 
PURPOSE: 
The specific purposes of these rule changes are as follows: 
1. 
Reformat the rule by changing the term “regulation” to “part” so as to be consistent with other 
Colorado Department of Agriculture rules. 
2. 
Delete the civil penalty regulation, which will now be set via policy. Existing rule is too stringent 
and does not allow for consideration of aggravating/mitigating circumstances when a civil penalty 
is issued. 
3. 
Amend Part 1.1. by removing the apprentice training requirement, which is no longer applicable. 
Training can be completed by a scale operator. 
4. 
Amend Part 1.2. by removing the unnecessary requirement of an interview to become a certified 
weigher and add language to clarify that applicants must pass a written exam.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
7 
5. 
Amend Part 2.1. by removing the onerous and difficult to obtain training and experience 
requirement to become a device service provider. Language in its place has been added that 
requires applicants pass a written exam in order to become certified. 
6. 
Add language to Part 3 to meet the statutory requirement to create performance requirements for 
device service providers, including language added to clarify time frame for in-service report 
submission, require ownership of standards, provide for use of standards not owned by the 
service provider, require a scale test report for large capacity devices, and specify the information 
required on a placing in-service report. 
7. 
Add language to Part 4 that clarifies the statutory definition of a commercial weighing and 
measuring device. Also add language that specifies the scale type to be used for commercial 
transactions involving total weights of 3 ounces or less. 
8. 
Add language to Part 5 to meet the statutory requirement that mandates rules clarifying the 
circumstances under which a blue or red tag should be issued for a rejected device. 
9. 
Delete the requirement of what information is needed on a license application, which will now be 
set in policy. 
10. 
Delete requirements in regard to scale pit depth, and approaches to vehicle scales which are no 
longer in line with the national model law. The less restrictive requirements set forth in the model 
law, NIST Handbook 44, will now be used. 
FACTUAL AND POLICY ISSUES: 
1. 
During 2008-09 the Department of Regulatory Agencies (DORA) performed a Sunset Review of 
the Colorado Measurement Standards Act (MSA). The outcome of this process was the 
amendment of the MSA whereby language was added that required CDA to promulgate rules that 
specify performance requirements for device service providers, information required on a placing 
in-service report and criteria under which a blue or red tag will be issued to a rejected device. 
Thus in order for the Department of Agriculture to comply with these statutory requirements, the 
proposed rules in 8 CCR 1202-2 have been created. These rules have been drafted with the 
assistance from representatives of the industry that would be affected by their adoption. 
2. 
Rules that the Department no longer believe to be necessary, or not in accordance with the 
national model law have been removed. 
3. 
These revisions incorporate changes as a result of the Department’s Regulatory Efficiency 
Review Process conducted in accordance with the Governor’s Executive Order D 2012-002. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Regulations 4, 8 emer rule eff. 07/01/2009. 
Entire rule eff. 08/30/2009. 
Regulations 8, 9, 9.3 eff. 01/01/2014. 
Entire rule eff. 07/30/2014.
