---
id: "8_CCR_1203-24"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1203-24"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=8422&fileName=8%20CCR%201203-24&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1203-24. 8 CCR 1203-24

1 
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 
Plant Industry Division 
QUARANTINE IMPOSED AGAINST ALL LIFE STAGES OF THE EMERALD ASH BORER (AGRILUS 
PLANIPENNIS, FAIRMAIRE) AND HOSTS OR POSSIBLE CARRIERS OF EMERALD ASH BORER 
PURSUANT TO THE COLORADO PEST CONTROL ACT - Repealed eff. 12/30/2019 
8 CCR 1203-24 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Statement of Basis and Purpose 
Adopted November 15, 2019 - Effective December 30, 2019 
Statutory Authority 
The Commissioner of the Colorado Department of Agriculture (“CDA”) proposes the repeal of these Rules 
pursuant to her authority under the Pest Control Act (the “Act”), §§ 35-4-110 and 116, C.R.S. 
Purpose 
The purpose of this rulemaking is to repeal the Rules and Regulations Pertaining to the Administration 
and Enforcement of the Quarantine Imposed Against all Life States of the Emerald Ash Borer (Agrilus 
plannipennis, Fairmaire) and Hosts or Possible Carriers of Emerald Ash Borer Pursuant to the Colorado 
Pest Control Act (“EAB Quarantine”). 
Factual and Policy Basis 
The factual and policy issues encountered when developing the repeal of the EAB Quarantine include: 
1. 
Emerald ash borer cannot be eradicated. 
2. 
The original goal of the EAB Quarantine was to slow the spread of all life stages of EAB in order 
to give cities and communities outside the Quarantine area time to prepare for its arrival. 
3. 
Although the spread of EAB has been slowed by combining quarantine restrictions, education 
efforts, biological controls, pesticide applications, and reliance on Colorado’s climate, the 
Quarantine cannot and does not control flight of adult beetles across Quarantine boundaries. 
4. 
On July 29, 2019, the Broomfield City Forester collected a beetle from a neighborhood within the 
city limits of Broomfield, outside the current Quarantine area. Colorado State University 
entomologists confirmed that the insect was an emerald ash borer (Agrilus plannipennis, 
Fairmaire) 
5. 
Businesses, property owners, and cities within the Quarantine area have expended significant 
costs to comply with the EAB Quarantine. For example, Boulder and Longmont estimate that the 
cost of Quarantine compliance has been between $120,000 and $155,000 over the past five 
years, while arborists estimate that compliance has cost an average of $125,000/company over 
the past five years due to increased dump fees, extra grinding of wood chips, and decreased 
efficiencies incurred to comply with Quarantine restrictions. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1203-24 
Plant Industry Division 
 
2 
6. 
Compliance costs are passed on to Boulder County property owners. 
7. 
The cost of expanding Quarantine boundaries does not produce any benefit when the 
quarantined pest cannot be fully contained or eradicated. 
8. 
Elimination of Quarantine boundaries will allow for unrestricted movement of ash wood to 
recycling centers and other disposal sites within Colorado. Unimpeded movement of infested 
wood will foster more reuse and recycling options to account for an increased stream of ash 
wood. 
9. 
The original EAB Quarantine has served its purpose and is no longer needed. Biological controls, 
pesticide use, and education regarding best management practices are more cost effective ways 
to manage EAB in the future. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule emer. rule eff. 11/12/2013. 
Entire rule eff. 03/02/2014. 
Entire rule repealed eff. 12/30/2019.
