---
id: "8_CCR_1504-5"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1504-5"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=539&fileName=8%20CCR%201504-5&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1504-5. 8 CCR 1504-5

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF HIGHER EDUCATION 
Historical Society 
STATE REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES 
8 CCR 1504-5 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
STATEMENT OF BASIS AND PURPOSE: 
A State Register of Historic Places was established in 1975 by CRS 24-80 1-101 to 108 The law 
authorizes the State Historical Society to prepare and promulgate rules and procedures by which 
properties shall be determined to be eligible for, nominated to and included in, or removed from the State 
Register. 
The purpose of the rules is to implement the statutes, so that the public, interested organizations, and 
state agencies and departments may actively participate in the nomination of properties to the State 
Register, in reviews of proposed actions by state agencies affecting properties listed in the State 
Register, and to assure that eligible properties within Colorado are included in the State Register. 
1.  IMPLEMENTATION 
These rules and procedures implement the Act creating the State Register of Historic Places, CRS 24-
80.1-101 to 108, and should be used and read in conjunction with the law. All definitions found in CRS 
24-80.1-102 are incorporated by reference herein. 
2.  NOMINATION TO THE STATE REGISTER 
2.1  Nominations to the State Registers all be submitted to the Society on official nomination 
forms provided by the Society. 
2.2  A complete nomination shall include shall not be limited to: the property’s address and legal 
description; the owner(s) name, address and telephone number; a physical description of the 
property; a statement of historical significance; and current photographs of the property. All 
nominations shall include the owner’s written approval of the property’s nomination to and 
inclusion in the State Register. 
2.3  Within fourteen (14) calendar days of receipt of a nomination, the Society shall review the 
nomination on form, content, and sufficiency of information 
2.4  A nomination which is incomplete or does not contain sufficient information shall be returned 
to the applicant for additional information. 
2.5  A complete nomination shall be accepted and scheduled for review by the State Register 
Review Board. The Society shall notify the owner and the nominator of the property as to the 
date, time, and location of the State Register Review Board meeting. 
3.  CRITERIA FOR EVALUATION OF A PROPERTY NOMINATED TO THE STATE REGISTER 
Criteria for inclusion in the State register are those provided in CRS 24-80.1-107 (1). 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
2 
4.  STATE REGISTER REVIEW BOARD 
4.1  The State Register Review Board shall consist of a minimum of five and a maximum of 
fifteen persons, the majority of whom shall be recognized professionals in the fields of history, 
prehistory and historic archaeology, architectural history, and architecture. In addition to these 
members, the two advisors from the State of Colorado to the National Trust for Historic 
Preservation shall serve as voting ex officio members of the State Register Review Board. 
4.2  Members of the State Register Review Board shall be appointed by the Board of Directors of 
the Society and shall serve two-year terms so that no more than one- half of the members' terms 
expire in any given year. Members may be reappointed. Vacancies shall be filled in the same 
manner as original appointments for the remainder of the unfilled term, and such appointees may 
be reappointed to a regular term following such service. 
4.3  The State Register Review Board shall meet a minimum of three (3) times during each 
calendar year. 
4.4  The duties of the State Register Review Board are to review all accepted State Register 
nominations and issue a recommendation to the Board of Directors of the Society for the 
nominated property’s inclusion in, denial of inclusion in, or removal from the State Register. The 
recommendation of the State Register Review Board shall be based on its determination of the 
property’s historical significance and whether or not the property meets the criteria for evaluation. 
CRS 24-80.1-102 (6); CRS 24-8C 107 (1). 
5.  INCLUSION OF NOMINATED PROPERTY IN THE STATE REGISTER 
5.1  Within thirty (30) calendar days of the meeting at which the nominated property is considered 
by the State Register Review Board, the Board of Directors of the Society shall determine 
whether the property is to be included in the State Register. Such determination shall be based 
on the recommendation of the State Register Review Board as well as other pertinent 
information. CRS 24-80.1-105 (2). 
5.2  Upon final determination to include a property in the State Register, by the Board of Directors 
of the Society, the nominated property shall be officially included in the State Register. 
6.  REMOVAL OF PROPERTIES FROM THE STATE REGISTER 
6.1  Properties that cease to meet the criteria for listing in the State Register because the 
qualities which caused them to be originally listed have been lost or destroyed may be removed 
from the State Register. 
6.2  Requests for removal shall be submitted to the Society on official forms provided by the 
Society. 
6.3  Within fourteen (14) calendar days of receipt of a request for removal, the Society shall 
review the request on form, content, and sufficiency of information. 
6.4  A request which is incomplete or does not contain sufficient information shall be returned to 
the requesting party for additional information. 
6.5  A complete request for removal shall be accepted and scheduled for review by the State 
Register Review Board. The Society shall notify the owner and the requesting party as to the 
date, time, and location of the State Register Review Board meeting.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
3 
6.6  Within thirty (30) calendar days of the meeting at which the removal of the subject property is 
considered by the State Register Review Board, the Board of Directors of the Society shall 
determine whether the property is to be removed from the Sate Register. Such determination 
shall be based on the recommendation of the State Register Review Board as well as other 
pertinent information. 
6.7  Upon final determination to remove a property from the State Register, by the Board of 
Directors of the Society, the nominated property shall be officially removed from the State 
Register. 
6.8  Properties removed from the National Register of Historic Places are not removed from the 
State Register unless the procedures established in this section have been followed. 
7.  STATE REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES 
7.1  In addition to all properties included in the National Register (CRS 24-80.1-105 (3)), the State 
Register shall include all nominated properties receiving final determination to be included in the 
State Register in accordance with these rules and procedures. 
7.2  An official list of all properties included in the State Register shall be maintained by the 
Society and shall be accessible to the public. 
7.3  Agencies and others shall be notified of additions or deletions to the State Register by 
periodic publication in the Society’s newsletter. 
8.  REVIEW OF PROPOSED ACTIONS BY STATE AGENCIES 
8.1  At the earliest stages of planning or consideration of a proposed action, the agency initiating 
the action should contact the Society to determine whether properties of historical significance 
may be located within the area of the proposed action. 
8.2  When a state agency action may adversely affect a property fifty or more years old, the 
agency should seek the Society’s determination as to whether such property is of historical 
significance. If the property is determined to be of historical significance as defined in CRS 24-
80.1-102 (6), the agency shall request the Society’s determination of effect on such property. 
CRS 24-80.1-104 (2) (a). 
8.3  As provided in CRS 24-80.1-104, state agencies considering actions which may have an 
effect on a property or properties included in the State Register shall notify the Society in writing 
of the proposed action and shall request the Society’s determination of effect on such properties. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History
