---
id: "8_CCR_1507-75"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1507-75"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12317&fileName=8%20CCR%201507-75&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1507-75. 8 CCR 1507-75

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY 
Executive Director’s Office 
FIRST RESPONDER DEATH BENEFIT 
8 CCR 1507-75 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this document.] 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Applicability 
Article 1 - Authority 
1.1 
The Executive Director of the Colorado Department of Public Safety is authorized by the 
provisions of Section 24-33.5-122 (4), Colorado Revised Statutes, to establish rules regarding the 
administration of the First Responder Death Benefit Fund created in Section 24-33.5-122 (4)(e)(I), 
C.R.S. 
1.2 
These rules are intended to be consistent with the requirements of the State Administrative 
Procedure Act, Section 24-4-101 et seq., C.R.S. (the “APA”). 
Article 2 - Definitions 
2.1 
The definitions provided in Section 24-33.5-122 (1), C.R.S. apply to these rules. The following 
additional definitions also apply: 
“C.R.S.” means the Colorado Revised Statutes. 
“Department” means the Colorado Department of Public Safety. 
“Emergency Medical Service Provider” means an individual who holds an emergency medical 
service provider certificate or license issued by the Department of Public Health and 
Environment. 
“Executive Director” means the Executive Director of the Colorado Department of Public 
Safety. 
“First Responder Line of Duty Death” means the death of a first responder as the direct and 
proximate result of a personal injury sustained while performing their official first responder job 
duties or because of an occupational disease arising out of and in the course of their employment 
of service as a first responder. 
Article 3 - Application Process 
3.1 
Applicants must submit a written request in the application developed by the Department and 
available on the Department’s public website at https://publicsafety.colorado.gov. 
3.1.1 
Applicants who need assistance with the application process or require accessibility 
support should contact the First Responder Death Benefit Administrator via phone, email, 
or postal service at: Colorado Department of Public Safety, Executive Director’s 
Compliance Office, First Responder Death Benefit Program Administrator at 700 Kipling 
St., Suite 4000, Lakewood, CO 80215. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-75 
Executive Director’s Office 
 
2 
Article 4 - Review of Eligibility 
4.1 
The Executive Director shall make the determination of eligibility for benefit payment from the 
death benefit fund. 
4.1.1 
Death benefit payment eligibility criteria is met minimally if a first responder has died on 
or after November 5, 2024, as a direct and proximate result of a personal injury sustained 
while performing their official duties or because of an occupational disease arising out of 
and in the course of their employment or service as a first responder as defined in these 
rules and in Section 24-33.5-122(1)(c). 
a. 
In accordance with the eligibility criteria listed above, if the first responder has 
died after separation from service as a first responder, while on an authorized 
leave of absence as a first responder, or while performing qualified military 
service, as defined in 26 U.S.C. sec. 414 (u)(5), a benefit shall be paid to a 
payee in connection with that first responder in accordance with Article 5.2 of 
these rules. 
Article 5 - Benefit Payment 
5.1 
The Department shall pay a benefit of one million dollars from the death benefit fund if the 
indicated payee is living on the date on which the Executive Director makes the determination 
described in Section 24-33.5-122(4)(a)(I), C.R.S. 
5.2 
The payment of survivor benefits from the fund shall be made in accordance with statute as 
follows: 
A. 
If there is no child who survived the first responder, to the surviving spouse of the first 
responder. 
B. 
If there is at least one child who survived the first responder and a surviving spouse, fifty 
(50) percent to the surviving spouse and fifty (50) percent to the surviving child or 
children in equal shares. 
C. 
If there is no surviving spouse of the first responder, to the surviving child or children in 
equal shares. 
D. 
If there is no surviving spouse of the first responder and no surviving child, to the 
surviving individual or individuals designated by the first responder in the most recently 
executed designation of beneficiary on file at the time of death with the governing body or 
state agency, apportioned in accordance with the designation of beneficiary or, if 
apportionment is not indicated, in equal shares. 
E. 
If there is no surviving spouse of the first responder, no surviving child of the eligible first 
responder, and no individual qualifying as a recently executed designated beneficiary on 
file at the time of death with the governing body or state agency, to the surviving 
beneficiaries under the most recently executed life insurance policy of the first responder 
on file at the time of death with the governing body or state agency, apportioned in 
accordance with the insurance policy or, if apportionment is not indicated, in equal 
shares. 
F. 
If there is no individual qualifying under subsections 5.2 A-E of these rules, to the 
surviving parent or parents, in equal shares, of the first responder.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-75 
Executive Director’s Office 
 
3 
G. 
If the Executive Director is unable to identify an individual described in subsections 5.2 A-
F of these rules, then no payment is made for that first responder pursuant to Section 24-
33.5-122(4)(a)(I), C.R.S. 
5.3 
A benefit payment shall not be used to offset or reduce payments available from any other 
source, including a public disability plan or insurance plan, private disability plan or insurance 
plan, or benefits provided under Colorado’s workers’ compensation law. 
5.4 
If a conflict arises between the beneficiary or beneficiaries appointed in the decedent’s 
designation of beneficiary on file at the time of death and those described in Section 24-33.5-
122(4)(a)(I), C.R.S., the provisions of the statute will control. 
Article 6 - Determination of Tax Liability 
6.1 
An eligible payee who meets the requirements to file a Colorado income tax may qualify for 
federal income tax exemption for a death benefit payment in accordance with the federal Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S. Code § 101(h). 
6.1.1. 
In general, a payment under this Rule qualifies for line-of-duty status under Section 
101(h) of the Federal “Internal Revenue Code of 1986” when the payment is a survivor 
annuity on account of the death of a public safety officer (as such term is defined in 
section 1204 of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, as in effect 
immediately before the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2013) killed in the line of duty: 
a. 
If such annuity is provided, under a governmental plan which meets the 
requirements of section 401(a), to the spouse (or a former spouse) of the public 
safety officer or to a child of such officer; and 
b. 
To the extent such annuity is attributable to such officer’s service as a public 
safety officer. 
6.1.2. 
In general, Article 6.1.1 of these rules shall not apply with respect to the death of any 
public safety officer if, as determined in accordance with the provisions of the Omnibus 
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968: 
a. 
The death was caused by the intentional misconduct of the officer or by such 
officer’s intention to bring about such officer’s death; 
b. 
The officer was voluntarily intoxicated (as defined in section 1204 of such Act) at 
the time of death; 
c. 
The officer was performing such officer’s duties in a grossly negligent manner at 
the time of death; or 
d. 
The payment is to an individual whose actions were a substantial contributing 
factor to the death of the officer. 
6.1.3 
The Executive Director shall issue an opinion as to whether a payment made pursuant to 
Section 24-33.5-122(4), C.R.S. and to these rules qualifies for line-of-duty status under 
Section 101(h) of the Federal “Internal Revenue Code of 1986” and whether any of the 
exceptions specified in Section 101(h)(2) of the Federal “Internal Revenue Code of 1986” 
are applicable.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-75 
Executive Director’s Office 
 
4 
a. 
The Executive Director shall inform the taxpayer who receives the payment and 
the Department of Revenue of the Executive Director’s decision. 
6.2 
If the Executive Director issues an opinion stating that a payment made under this subsection 
does not qualify for a federal tax exemption under Section 101(h), the Executive Director shall 
provide the Department of Revenue and the beneficiary of the payment any information deemed 
necessary by the Department of Revenue necessary under Section 39-22-104(4)(ee). 
6.3 
For income tax years commencing on or after January 1, 2026, for a taxpayer who receives a 
payment pursuant to Section 24-33.5-122(4) that does not qualify for the federal income tax 
exemption described in Section 101(h) of the Federal “Internal Revenue Code of 1986,” including 
a payment that does not qualify as a result of the exceptions described in Section 101(h)(2) of the 
Federal “Internal Revenue Code of 1986,” Section 39-22-104(ee). C.R.S. shall apply. 
Article 7 - Appeal of Eligibility 
7.1 
Appeals regarding death benefit payment eligibility, including eligible beneficiaries and share 
distribution, may be submitted to the Executive Director in writing within (30) calendar days of 
receipt of the eligibility determination notification in accordance with the appeals process found on 
the Department’s public website at https://publicsafety.colorado.gov. 
7.1.1 
The notice of appeal must contain the factual basis explaining why the determination is incorrect 
and should include any relevant supporting documentation. 
7.2 
The Executive Director shall hold a hearing to review such appeals and take final action in 
accordance with Section 24-4-105, C.R.S. Final agency action shall be subject to judicial review 
pursuant to Section 24-4-106, C.R.S. 
7.3 
The Executive Director will issue a final written decision within forty-five (45) of the receipt of the 
appeal. 
Article 8 - Severability 
8.1 
If any provision of application of these rules is held invalid, all other provisions and applications of 
these rules will remain in effect. 
Article 9 - Materials Incorporated by Reference 
9.1 
The following material is hereby incorporated by reference into 8 CCR 1507-75 First Responder 
Death Benefit Administration, pursuant to Section 24-4-103(12.5), C.R.S., and do not include any 
later amendments. 
A. 
Federal Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 26 U.S Code Sections 101(h)(1) and 101(h)(2); 
this code section is incorporated by reference into these rules and available online at 
https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/USCODE-2023-title26/pdf/USCODE-2023-title26-
subtitle A-chap1-subchapB-partIII-sec101.pdf. 
B. 
Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 is Pub. L. 90–351, June 19, 1968, 
82 Stat. 197. Section 1204 of the Act is classified to section 10284 of Title 34, Crime 
Control and Law Enforcement. Section 1204 of the Act, as in effect immediately before 
the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013, means 
section 1204 prior to its amendment by Pub. L. 112–239, div. A, title X, §1086(b)(1)(E), 
Jan. 2, 2013, 126 Stat. 1967; this public law is incorporated by reference into these rules 
and available online at https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/COMPS-1696/pdf/COMPS-
1696.pdf.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-75 
Executive Director’s Office 
 
5 
9.2 
The Colorado Department of Public Safety will maintain copies of the material incorporated by 
reference into these rules, which are available for public inspection during regular business hours. 
Interested parties may inspect the referenced incorporated materials and/or obtain copies at no 
cost from the Colorado Department of Public Safety, Executive Director’s Compliance Office at 
700 Kipling St., Suite 4000, Lakewood, CO 80215 or the Colorado State Publications Depository 
Libraries at https://www.cde.state.co.us/stateinfo/sldepsit. 
Article 10 - Inquiries 
10.1 
All questions or requests for accessibility support, application assistance, and/or interpretation of 
these rules should be submitted in writing to the Colorado Department of Public Safety, Executive 
Director’s Compliance Office, Community Services Program Manager at 700 Kipling St., Suite 
4000, Lakewood, CO 80215. 
________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 01/01/2026.
