---
id: "8_CCR_1501-7"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1501-7"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=3366&fileName=8%20CCR%201501-7&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1501-7. 8 CCR 1501-7

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR 
Governor’s Office of Information Technology 
RULE IN SUPPORT OF CENTRALIZED IT MANAGEMENT AND CREATION OF ENTERPRISE 
ARCHITECTURE OFFICE AND DATA MANAGEMENT PROGRAM 
8 CCR 1501-7 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
1  Authority 
This rule is adopted pursuant to § 24-37.5-104 CRS and the State Administrative Procedure Act § 24-4-
101 et seq. CRS. 
2  Scope and Purpose 
A.  This regulation shall govern every State agency ("Agency") as defined in C.R.S 24-37.5-102(4), and 
all of its respective officers, departments, divisions, commissions, boards, bureaus, and 
institutions. 
B.  The purpose is to formalize strategic alignment of IT investments with state policy priorities, IT policy 
and standards, while reducing duplication and overlap, pursuant to § 24-37.5-105(9) CRS. 
3  Applicability 
The provisions of this section shall be applicable to state agencies as defined above that manage and 
administer Information Technology intended to capture, store, process, manage, or transmit data. 
4  Definitions 
A.  Chief Information Officer – see § 24-37.5-102(1) CRS 
B.  Chief Information Security Officer – see § 24-37.5-403(1), (2) CRS 
C.  Office of Enterprise Architecture– The Office of Enterprise Architecture (OEA) is the unit within the 
Governor’s Office of Information Technology that will manage both the Enterprise Architecture 
and Data Management programs. 
D.  Enterprise Architecture (EA) is a comprehensive framework used to manage and align an 
organization's IT assets, people, operations, and projects with its operational characteristics. In 
other words, the enterprise architecture defines how information and technology will support the 
business operations and provide benefit for the business. 
E.  Information Technology (IT) – see § 24-37.5-102(2) 
F.  Data Management (DM) is an ongoing, centralized administrative function that consists of the planning 
and execution of policies, practices, and projects that acquire, control, protect, deliver, and 
enhance the value of data and information assets. Responsibilities typically assigned to this 
function include data and information strategy planning; data governance; data architecture 
management; data development; database operations management; data security management; 
reference and master data management; data warehousing and business intelligence 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
2 
management; document and content management; meta-data management; and, data quality 
management. 
5  Responsibilities and Requirements 
A.  The purpose of the OEA within the Governor’s Office of Information Technology (OIT) is to deliver 
agile business solutions enabling connected government services. 
(1)  The OEA has the following responsibilities: 
a.  Develop a comprehensive EA framework and repository across the agencies to 
ensure the alignment between the business strategy and the supporting technical 
and data architectures; 
b.  Develop processes and procedures to review agency architectural documentation as 
deemed necessary; 
c.  Review agency architectural documentation and provide feedback to agencies in a 
timely manner; 
d.  Set enterprise standards for all technical domains; 
e.  Establish processes necessary for implementing new technologies and systems in 
response to the State’s changing business needs; 
f.  Coordinate and leverage existing state investments in information technology 
infrastructure; 
g.  Identify interdependencies between enterprise projects; 
h.  Establish collaborative and cooperative relationships with public and private sector 
organizations to invest strategically in enterprise technology assets and promote 
reusability; 
i.  Enforce architectural standards across the enterprise; and, 
j.  From time to time review its mission and update policies and standards as deemed 
necessary. 
(2)  State Agency Requirements 
a.  Each agency shall provide baseline architectural documentation based on OEA 
templates and guidelines within 180 business days of delivery of templates; 
b.  Agencies shall go through an architectural documentation update and review process 
based on process and procedures determined by the OEA; 
c.  Agencies shall implement new, modified or updated functionality, applications, 
technologies and systems in accordance with standards, policies, and guidelines 
developed by the OEA. 
d.  Agencies shall comply with other data management policies, procedures and 
standards as developed by the OEA.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
3 
B.  The purpose of the DM Program within the OEA is to leverage data and information as enterprise 
assets and to establish standards and processes to enable more agile solutions and government 
services. 
(1)  The Data Management Program has the following responsibilities: 
a.  Ensure that data and information assets are known, usable, reusable, and can be 
accessed when and where needed; 
b.  Develop processes and procedures to review agency data documentation as deemed 
necessary; 
c.  Review agency data documentation and provide feedback to agencies in a timely 
manner; 
d.  Establish common policies, procedures and standards to maximize the sharing and 
investment in information resources; 
e.  Coordinate and leverage existing state investments in data and information resources; 
f.  Create policies and procedures to facilitate data and information sharing among the 
various agencies. 
g.  Develop appropriate security and privacy policies to protect data assets, by working in 
conjunction with the Office of Cyber Security on data security management and 
the Attorney General’s Office on privacy concerns; 
h.  Establish collaborative and cooperative relationships with public and private sector 
organizations to invest strategically in data and information assets and promote 
reusability; and, 
i.  From time to time review its mission and update policies and standards as deemed 
necessary. 
(2)  State Agency Requirements 
a.  Each agency shall provide baseline data documentation based on OEA templates and 
guidelines within 180 business days of delivery of templates; 
b.  Agencies shall go through a data documentation update and review process based on 
process and procedures determined by the OEA; 
c.  Agencies shall implement data management standards in accordance with standards, 
policies, and guidelines developed by the Governor’s Office of Information 
Technology. 
d.  Agencies shall comply with the metrics and reporting requirements developed by the 
OEA. 
e.  Agencies shall comply with other data management policies, procedures and 
standards as developed by the OEA. 
C.  Request for Extension of Time - If any agency finds that they are unable to complete the requirements 
set out in section 5 A and B within the 180 day requirement, they may request an extension of 
time. The request for an extension must be made in writing, and submitted to the CIO or his/her

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
4 
designee no later than 60 days before the 180 day time period expires. The request must state 
the reason for the delay and the anticipated timeframe for completion. Such a request does not 
guarantee an extension of time. The agency should continue to work within the 180 day 
timeframe until they hear from OIT. An extension of time will not be unduly withheld. The CIO or 
his/her designee will work with the agency to assure compliance with the rule. 
6  Requests for Exemption 
Should an agency find that a Federal program with which it must comply requires an exemption from this 
rule, a formal request in writing shall be submitted to the State CIO for review and determination. 
A  The agency exemption request must be submitted prior to developing, procuring, or deploying any 
technology or failing to comply with a requirement specified by OIT. 
B  The exemption shall only be for the portion of the Federal requirement that falls outside of the State 
policies and standards. 
C  Exemptions will only be made on a requirement-by-requirement basis for a project or program, and will 
not automatically cover an entire project. 
D  Considerations to be weighed by the State CIO or their designee in evaluating an agency request for 
exemption to enterprise architecture or data management standards include, but are not limited 
to: 
(1)  Agency business rationale for use of non-standard; 
(2)  The degree to which the requested non-standard would materially inhibit the State from 
ensuring that its information resources fit together in a statewide system capable of 
providing ready access to and sharing of information, computing or telecommunications 
resources; 
(3)  The degree to which the requested non-standard would interfere with the State’s goal of 
acquiring and using enterprise information technology resources in the most integrated, 
interoperable, efficient and economical manner possible; and, 
(4)  Other factors deemed to be relevant by the State CIO. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 01/30/2010.
