---
id: "8_CCR_1507-101"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1507-101"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=12302&fileName=8%20CCR%201507-101&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1507-101. 8 CCR 1507-101

1 
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
BUILDING AND FIRE CODE ADOPTION AND CERTIFICATION OF INSPECTORS FOR FIRE & LIFE 
SAFETY PROGRAMS ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE OF COLORADO 
8 CCR 1507-101 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
APPLICABILITY 
These rules and regulations apply to all buildings and life safety systems subject to the oversight of the 
Colorado Department of Public Safety, Division of Fire Prevention and Control and persons conducting 
Fire and Life Safety and Building Code plan reviews and inspections on behalf of the Division pursuant to 
the provisions of Sections 44-30-515, 24-4-103, 24-33.5-2003 and 2008, C.R.S. and Title 24, Article 33.5, 
Part 12. 
ARTICLE 1 - AUTHORITY TO ADOPT RULES AND REGULATIONS 
1.1 
The Director of the Division of Fire Prevention and Control is authorized by the provisions of 
Section 24-33.5-1203.5, C.R.S. to promulgate rules in order to carry out the duties of the Division 
of Fire Prevention and Control. 
1.2 
Statutory Authority to Adopt Codes and Standards 
1.2.1 
Section 44-30-515, C.R.S. establishes the authority and duty of the Division of Fire 
Prevention & Control to establish minimum safety standards for limited gaming 
structures. 
1.2.2 
Section 24-33.5-1203.5(2), C.R.S. establishes the authority and duty of the Director of 
the Division of Fire Prevention & Control to establish minimum codes and standards for 
waste tire facilities. 
1.2.3 
Section 24-33.5-1212.5, C.R.S. establishes the authority and duty of the Director of the 
Division of Fire Prevention & Control to establish minimum codes and standards for 
health facility buildings or structures. 
1.2.4 
Sections 24-33.5-1213.3, 22-32-124, and 23-71-122, C.R.S. establish the authority and 
duty of the Director of the Division of Fire Prevention & Control to establish minimum 
codes and standards for public school buildings or structures. 
1.2.5 
Section 24-33.5-1206.3, C.R.S. establishes the authority and duty of the Director of the 
Division of Fire Prevention & Control to establish minimum codes and standards for the 
design, installation, inspection, and testing of fire suppression systems in commercial and 
residential structures. 
1.2.6 
Section 24-33.5-2004(7), C.R.S. establishes the authority and duty of the Director of the 
Department of Public Safety to promulgate rules to implement the provision of part 20, 
including the adoption of minimum standards for the discharge of fireworks, as required 
by Section 24-33.5-2003, C.R.S. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-101 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
2 
1.2.7 
Section 24-33.5-2008, C.R.S. establishes the authority and duty of the Director of the 
Division of Fire Prevention & Control to establish minimum codes and standards for the 
storage of fireworks in an area where the governing body has not adopted a fire code. 
1.3 
Statutory Authority to Certify Inspectors 
1.3.1 
Section 24-33.5-1211, C.R.S. establishes the authority and duty of the Division to certify 
persons to conduct Fire and Life Safety Code plan reviews and inspections on behalf of 
the Division. 
1.3.2 
Section 24-33.5-1213.5, C.R.S. establishes the authority and duty of the Division to 
certify persons to conduct Third-party Building Code inspections, hereafter referred to as 
Delegated Building Inspectors, on behalf of the Division. 
1.3.3 
Section 24-33.5-1206.4, C.R.S. establishes the authority and duty of the Division to 
certify a person to conduct fire suppression system inspections and plan reviews on 
behalf of the Division. 
ARTICLE 2 - DEFINITIONS 
2.1 
The definitions provided in Section 24-33.5-1202, C.R.S. apply to these rules. The following 
additional definitions also apply: 
“Authority Having Jurisdiction” or “AHJ” means the Division, Building Department, Fire Chief, 
Fire Marshal, or other designated official of a county, municipality, special authority, or special 
district that has code enforcement responsibilities and employs a building inspector or certified 
fire inspector. 
“Building Department” means the Building Department (or a contracted third party acting on 
their behalf) of the Division, authority, county, town, city, or city and county. 
“Business Entity” means any organization or enterprise and includes, but is not limited to, a 
sole proprietor, an association, corporation, business trust, joint venture, limited liability company, 
limited liability partnership, partnership or syndicate. For the purposes of these rules, the 
Business Entity may elect to be represented by a designated representative through a written 
delegation of authority. 
“Certificate of Compliance” means an official document issued by applicable local building 
and/or fire code Authority Having Jurisdiction and approved by the Division, stating that materials 
and products meet specified standards, or that work was performed in compliance with approved 
construction documents. 
“Certificate of Occupancy” means an official document issued by the Authority Having 
Jurisdiction which authorizes a building or structure to be used or occupied for a specified 
purpose. 
“Construction” means work that is not considered as maintenance or service and that requires 
a permit as prescribed in the adopted codes and standards of the local Authority Having 
Jurisdiction or the Division. 
“C.R.S.” means Colorado Revised Statutes. 
“Delegated Building Inspector” means building inspectors that have been certified by the 
Division to perform delegated inspection services in accordance with Article 4.1 of these rules. 
(Previously known as Third Party Inspectors.)

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-101 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
3 
“Department” means the Department of Public Safety. 
“Designated Representative” means a person designated by the Business Entity to act on their 
behalf through a written delegation of authority and is allowed to act in such manner as outlined in 
these rules. 
“Director” means the Director of the Division of Fire Prevention and Control. 
“Division” means the Division of Fire Prevention and Control in the Department of Public Safety. 
“Executive Director” means the Executive Director of the Colorado Department of Public 
Safety. 
“Fire Code Official” means the designated authority charged with the administration and 
enforcement of the Fire Code. 
“ICC” means the International Code Council. 
“Individual” or “Person” means a person, including an owner, manager, officer, employee, or 
individual. 
“Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance Program” means a program conducted by the building 
owner to satisfy the periodic inspection, testing, and maintenance requirements of fire protection 
and life safety systems as required by applicable codes and standards. 
“Installation” means the initial placement of equipment or the extension, modification, or 
alteration of equipment after the initial placement. 
“Maintenance” means to sustain in a condition of repair that will allow performance as originally 
designed or intended. Maintenance does not include replacement of elements of a system which 
alter the performance criteria of the system as approved by the Authority Having Jurisdiction. 
“Maintenance and Complaint Inspections” means periodic inspections or inspections 
conducted based on an allegation of nonconformance conducted by the local fire department or 
the Division to verify conformance with the adopted codes, rules, and standards. Such 
inspections are not to be considered to relieve the building owner of the responsibility to conduct 
an inspection, testing, and maintenance program for fire protection and life safety systems as 
required by the adopted codes, rules, and standards. 
“NICET” means the National Institute for Certification in Engineering Technologies. 
“NFPA” means the National Fire Protection Association. 
“Qualified Fire Department” means a fire department that has Certified Fire Inspectors at the 
appropriate level for the fire prevention-related task being performed and provides fire protection 
service for the Business Entity’s buildings and structures. 
“Service (Or Repair)” means to repair in order to return the system to operation as originally 
designed or intended. 
“Special Inspector” means individuals that have been certified by the Division to perform special 
inspections services in accordance with Article 4.1 of these rules.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-101 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
4 
“Temporary Certificate of Occupancy” means an official document issued by the Authority 
Having Jurisdiction which authorizes a building or structure to be temporarily used or occupied for 
a period not to exceed ninety (90) days, unless an extension has been granted by the Authority 
Having Jurisdiction. 
“Third-Party Inspector” means building inspectors that have been certified by the Division to 
perform third party inspection services in accordance with Article 4.1 of this rule. 
ARTICLE 3 - CODES, DOCUMENTS, AND STANDARDS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
3.1 
The technical requirements of these rules are supported primarily by codes developed by the 
International Code Council and the National Fire Protection Association. These two organizations are 
membership associations dedicated to building safety and fire prevention. These rules establish minimum 
requirements where the Division is the Authority Having Jurisdiction for building systems using 
prescriptive and performance related provisions, which are widely used to construct residential and 
commercial buildings. The appropriate portions of the adopted codes (particularly in relation to 
classification of occupancy) will be applied as prescribed by the adopted codes themselves. Where there 
are differing provisions for new and existing construction, all new work taking place after July 1, 2021, 
must meet the requirements for new construction, as amended by the provisions of IEBC and NFPA 101, 
and subject to the restrictions of Section 3.4.2 of these rules. 
3.2 
The following codes and their referenced standards are adopted and promulgated as minimum 
standards for the construction and maintenance of all property, buildings, and structures subject to the 
oversight of the Colorado Department of Public Safety, Division of Fire Prevention and Control pursuant 
to the provisions of Section 44-30-515, C.R.S. and C.R.S. Title 24 Article 33.5 Part 12. 
3.2.1 
The following Building Codes are adopted by these regulations. Wherever Division or 
Department regulations refer to a Building Code, the following codes and standards will 
be enforced by the Division where applicable: 
Colorado Model Electric Ready and Solar Ready Code – 2023 Edition, First Printing: 
June 1, 2023 (Copyright 2023 by Colorado Energy Office). 
Colorado Wildfire Resiliency Code – 2025 Edition, First Printing: June 1, 2025 (Copyright 
2025 by the Colorado Division of Fire Prevention & Control). 
International Building Code - 2021 Edition, First Printing: October 2020 (Copyright 2020 
by International Code Council, Inc. Washington D.C.). 
International Mechanical Code - 2021 Edition, First Printing: March 2020 (Copyright 2020 
by International Code Council, Inc. Washington D.C.). 
International Energy Conservation Code - 2021 Edition, First Printing: January 2021 
(Copyright 2021 by International Code Council, Inc.). 
International Existing Building Code - 2021 Edition, First Printing: December 2020 
(Copyright 2020 by International Code Council, Inc.). 
International Residential Code - 2021 Edition, First Printing: December 2020 (Copyright 
2020 by the International Code Council, Inc. Washington, D.C.). 
NFPA 170 Standard for Fire Safety and Emergency Symbols – 2021 Edition, First 
Printing: October 2020 (Copyright 2020 by National Fire Protection Association). This 
supersedes all references to NFPA 170 within the International Building Code.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-101 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
5 
3.2.2 
The following Fire Codes are adopted by these regulations. Wherever Division or 
Department regulations refer to a Fire Code, the following codes and standards will be 
enforced where applicable: 
International Fire Code - 2021 Edition, First Printing: October 2020 (Copyright 2020 by 
the International Code Council, Inc. Washington, D.C.). 
NFPA 3 Standard for Commissioning of Fire Protection and Life Safety Systems - 2021 
Edition (Copyright 2020 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.). 
NFPA 4 Standard for Integrated Fire Protection and Life Safety System Testing - 2021 
Edition (Copyright 2020 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.). 
NFPA 99 Health Care Facilities Code – 2012 Edition, Fourth Printing: April 2013 
(Copyright 2011 by National Fire Protection Association). This supersedes all references 
to NFPA 99 within the International Fire Code. 
NFPA 170 Standard for Fire Safety and Emergency Symbols – 2021 Edition, First 
Printing: October 2020 (Copyright 2020 by National Fire Protection Association). This 
supersedes all references to NFPA 170 within the International Fire Code. 
3.2.3 
The following Life Safety and Health Facility Construction Codes and Standards are 
adopted by these regulations. Wherever Division regulations refer to a Life Safety Code, 
the following codes, standards, and guidelines will be enforced where applicable: 
NFPA 101 Life Safety Code – 2012 Edition, First Printing: September 2011 (Copyright 
2011 by National Fire Protection Association). 
NFPA 101A Guide on Alternative Approaches to Life Safety – 2013 Edition, First Printing: 
June 2013 (Copyright 2013 by National Fire Protection Association). 
NFPA 99 Health Care Facilities Code – 2012 Edition, Fourth Printing: April 2013 
(Copyright 2011 by National Fire Protection Association). 
NFPA 3 Standard for Commissioning of Fire Protection and Life Safety Systems - 2015 
Edition (Copyright 2015 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.). 
NFPA 4 Standard for Integrated Fire Protection and Life Safety System Testing - 2015 
Edition (Copyright 2015 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.). 
NFPA 170 Standard for Fire Safety and Emergency Symbols – 2021 Edition, First 
Printing: October 2020 (Copyright 2020 by National Fire Protection Association). This 
supersedes all references to NFPA 170 within the Life Safety Code. 
3.2.4 
The following standards are adopted by the Division for the design, installation, and 
maintenance of Fire Suppression Systems within the State of Colorado: 
NFPA 3 Standard for Commissioning of Fire Protection and Life Safety Systems - 2021 
Edition (Copyright 2020 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.). 
NFPA 4 Standard for Integrated Fire Protection and Life Safety System Testing - 2021 
Edition (Copyright 2020 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.). 
NFPA 11 Standard for Low, Medium, and High Expansion Foam - 2016 Edition 
(Copyright 2015 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-101 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
6 
NFPA 12 Standard for the Installation of Carbon Dioxide Extinguishing Systems - 2018 
Edition (Copyright 2017 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.). 
NFPA 12A Standard for the Installation of Halon 1301 Fire Extinguishing Systems - 2018 
Edition (Copyright 2017 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.). 
NFPA 13 Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems - 2019 Edition, (Copyright 
2018 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.). 
NFPA 13D Installation of Sprinkler Systems in One- and Two-Family Dwellings and 
Manufactured Homes - 2019 Edition (Copyright 2018 by National Fire Protection 
Association Inc.). 
NFPA 13R Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems in Low-Rise Residential 
Occupancies - 2019 Edition (Copyright 2018 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.). 
NFPA 14 Standard for the Installation of Standpipe and Hose Systems - 2019 Edition 
(Copyright 2018 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.). 
NFPA 15 Standard for Water Spray Fixed Systems for Fire Protection - 2017 Edition 
(Copyright 2016 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.). 
NFPA 16 Standard for the Installation of Foam-Water Sprinkler and Foam-Water Spray 
Systems - 2019 Edition (Copyright 2018 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.). 
NFPA 17 Standard for Dry Chemical Extinguishing Systems - 2021 Edition (Copyright 
2020 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.). 
NFPA 17A Standard for Wet Chemical Extinguishing Systems - 2021 Edition (Copyright 
2020 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.). 
NFPA 18 Standard for Wetting Agents - 2021 Edition (Copyright 2020 by National Fire 
Protection Association Inc.). 
NFPA 18A Standard for Water Additives for Fire Control and Vapor Mitigation - 2017 
Edition (Copyright 2016 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.). 
NFPA 20 Standard for the Installation of Stationary Pumps for Fire Protection - 2019 
Edition (Copyright 2018 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.). 
NFPA 22 Standard for Water Tanks for Private Fire Protection - 2018 Edition (Copyright 
2017 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.). 
NFPA 24 Standard for the Installation of Private Fire Service Mains and Their 
Appurtenances - 2019 Edition (Copyright 2018 by National Fire Protection Association 
Inc.). 
NFPA 25 Standard for the Inspection, Testing, and Maintenance of Water Based Fire 
Protection Systems - 2020 Edition (Copyright 2019 by National Fire Protection 
Association Inc.). 
A. 
In the Division’s adoption of NFPA 25 (2020 edition), Section 5.3.4.4 is deleted in 
its entirety and replaced with the following:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-101 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
7 
5.3.4.4 
Except as permitted by 5.3.4.4.1 and 5.3.4.4.3, all antifreeze systems shall utilize 
listed antifreeze solutions. 
5.3.4.4.1* 
For systems installed prior to September 30, 2012, listed antifreeze solutions 
shall not be required where one of the following conditions is met: 
(1)* 
The concentration of the antifreeze solution shall be limited to 30 percent 
factory premixed propylene glycol by volume or 38 percent factory 
premixed glycerine by volume. 
(2)* 
Antifreeze systems with concentrations in excess of 30 percent but not 
more than 40 percent factory premixed propylene glycol by volume and 
38 percent but not more than 50 percent factory premixed glycerine by 
volume shall be permitted based upon an approved deterministic risk 
assessment prepared by a qualified person approved by the authority 
having jurisdiction. 
5.3.4.4.2 
Newly introduced solutions shall be factory premixed antifreeze solutions 
(chemically pure or United States Pharmacopeia 96.5 percent). 
5.3.4.4.3 
Premixed antifreeze solutions of propylene glycol exceeding 30 percent 
concentration by volume shall be permitted for use with ESFR sprinklers where 
the ESFR sprinklers are listed for such use in a specific application. 
NFPA 72 National Fire Alarm and Signaling Code - 2019 Edition (Copyright 2018 by 
National Fire Protection Association Inc.). (The documentation requirements of Sections 
7.3, 7.4, 7.5, and 7.8 are hereby also adopted as part of these rules.) 
NFPA 170 Standard for Fire Safety and Emergency Symbols – 2021 Edition, First 
Printing: October 2020 (Copyright 2020 by National Fire Protection Association). 
NFPA 291: Recommended Practice for Fire Flow Testing and Marking of Hydrants - 2019 
Edition (Copyright 2018 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.). 
NFPA 409 Standard on Aircraft Hangars - 2016 Edition (Copyright 2015 by National Fire 
Protection Association Inc.). 
NFPA 418 Standard for Heliports - 2021 Edition (Copyright 2020 by National Fire 
Protection Association Inc.). 
NFPA 423 Standard for Construction and Protection of Aircraft Engine Test Facilities - 
2016 Edition (Copyright 2014 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.). 
NFPA 750 Standard on Water Mist Fire Protection Systems - 2019 Edition (Copyright 
2018 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.). 
NFPA 770 Standard on Hybrid (Water and Inert Gas) Fire-Extinguishing Systems - 2021 
Edition (Copyright 2020 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.). 
NFPA 1142 Standard on Water Supplies for Suburban and Rural Firefighting - 2017 
Edition (Copyright 2016 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-101 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
8 
NFPA 2001 Standard on Clean Agent Fire Extinguishing Systems - 2018 Edition 
(Copyright 2017 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.). 
NFPA 2010 Standard for Fixed Aerosol Fire-Extinguishing Systems - 2020 Edition 
(Copyright 2019 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.). 
3.2.5 
The following Codes and Standards are adopted by these regulations. Wherever Division 
or Department regulations refer to a Code or Standard for persons dealing with fireworks, 
the following codes and standards will be enforced where applicable: 
49 C.F.R. Part 173 as of July 1st, 2021; U.S. Department of Transportation. 
NFPA 160 Standard for the Use of Flame Effects Before an Audience - 2021 Edition, 
First Printing: October 2020 (Copyright 2020 by National Fire Protection Association). 
NFPA 170 Standard for Fire Safety and Emergency Symbols – 2021 Edition, First 
Printing: October 2020 (Copyright 2020 by National Fire Protection Association). 
NFPA 1123, Code for Fireworks Display - 2018 Edition (Copyright 2017 by National Fire 
Protection Association Inc.). 
NFPA 1124, Code for the Manufacture, Transportation, and Storage, and Retail Sales of 
Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles - 2013 Edition, Printing: August 2012 (Copyright 2012 
by National Fire Protection Association – Quincy, MA). 
NFPA 1126, Code for the Use of Pyrotechnics Before a Proximate Audience - 2021 
Edition (Copyright 2019 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.). 
3.2.6 
The following Codes and Standards are adopted by these regulations.  
Wherever Division or Department regulations refer to Standards for Persons Performing 
Fire Inspections or Fire Plan Examinations, the following codes and standards will be 
enforced where applicable: 
NFPA 1031, Standard for Professional Qualifications for Fire Inspector and Plan 
Examiner, 2014 Edition (Copyright 2013 by National Fire Protection Association Inc.). 
3.2.7 
The following Code is adopted by these regulations. The following Code is adopted for 
fire safety and prevention related to the operation of Mobile Food Establishments, as 
defined in Section 29-11.6-102 (6), C.R.S., for use by a local government in the local 
government’s establishment or adoption of a Fire Code: 
International Fire Code - 2024 Edition, First Printing: October 2023 (Copyright 2023 by 
the International Code Council, Inc. Washington, D.C.).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-101 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
9 
3.3 
The Division will maintain electronic copies of the complete texts of the adopted codes and 
standards, which are available for public inspection during regular business hours. Interested 
parties may inspect the referenced incorporated materials and/or obtain certified copies of the 
adopted codes for a reasonable fee by contacting the Fire and Life Safety Section Chief at the 
Division, 1697 Cole Blvd, Suite 200, Lakewood, CO 80401, and/or the Colorado State 
Publications Depository Libraries. Copies of the adopted codes and standards are available 
directly from the organization originally issuing the codes and standards: the Colorado Energy 
Office at 303-866-2100; the International Code Council, Inc., through the International Code 
Council, Inc., through the International Code Council Regional Office Bookstores, at 888-ICC-
SAFE; the National Fire Protection Association at 800-344-3555; and the U.S. Department of 
Transportation rules, available via the Electronic Code of Federal Regulations. 
3.4 
In the event that a new edition of a code or standard is adopted, the code or standard current at 
the time of permit application will remain in effect through the work authorized by the permit. 
3.4.1 
This rule does not include later amendments or editions of the incorporated material. 
3.4.2 
In conjunction with Section 44-30-515(1)(a), C.R.S., no retroactive provisions of the 
adopted codes shall apply to any structure licensed for limited gaming and operating prior 
to July 1, 2011. In these cases, the construction provisions of the adopted building codes 
shall only apply to new construction or remodeling work taking place after July 1, 2011. 
3.5 
All electrical work shall be conducted, inspected, and approved in accordance with the provisions 
of the State of Colorado’s Electrical Board’s rules and regulations. 
3.6 
All plumbing work shall be conducted, inspected, and approved in accordance with the provisions 
of the State of Colorado’s Examining Board of Plumber’s rules and regulations. 
ARTICLE 4 - BUILDING CODE AND FIRE CODE & SUPPRESSION SYSTEMS INSPECTOR 
QUALIFICATION 
4.1 
Division, Special, and Delegated Building Code Inspectors 
4.1.1 
Wherever Division regulations refer to Division, Special, and Delegated Building 
Inspectors, they must be qualified as Delegated or Special Inspectors in accordance with 
this Article 4.1. 
4.1.2 
Applicants seeking initial or renewal of Building Code Inspector certification must have 
the following minimum qualifications: 
A. 
Delegated Building Inspector: 
1. 
Hold current appropriate building inspector qualifications from ICC or 
other similar national organization (acceptable to the Division) and have 
demonstrated education, training, and experience; or 
2. 
Have at least five (5) years of demonstrated education, training, and 
experience in commercial building inspections and receive national 
certification within one (1) year after the date of qualification. Qualified 
applicants that have at least five (5) years of demonstrated education, 
training, and experience in appropriate building inspections will be issued 
certifications for one (1) year. Certification renewal will be contingent on 
the applicant obtaining commercial building inspector certification from 
ICC or other similar national organization (acceptable to the Division) 
prior to the expiration date of the applicant's inspector certification.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-101 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
10 
B. 
Special Inspector: 
1. 
Provide documentation of qualifications in conformance with the 
requirements of the code adopted by the Division. 
4.1.3 
Duties of Delegated Building Inspectors 
A. 
Delegated Building Inspectors contracted by the Business Entity shall conduct 
the required inspections and require corrections or modifications as necessary to 
ensure that a building or structure is constructed in conformity with the Building 
Code adopted by the Division. 
B. 
Delegated Building Inspectors contracted by the Business Entity shall enforce 
only the codes adopted by the Division. 
C. 
The Business Entity shall only use inspectors that are qualified by the Division to 
work on Health Facility or School projects. The Division shall be notified 
electronically in writing by the Business Entity of their selection of Delegated 
Building Inspectors and which inspections they will be conducting on behalf of 
the Division. 
D. 
Delegated Building Inspectors contracted by the Business Entity shall cause 
copies of their inspection reports to be sent to the Division. 
E. 
If all inspections are not completed but a building requires immediate occupancy, 
and if the Business Entity has passed the appropriate inspections that indicate 
there are no life safety issues, the qualified Delegated Building Inspectors 
contracted by the Business Entity shall notify the Division of the same. Upon 
receipt of this notice and review of the circumstances to ensure the safety of the 
temporary occupancy, the Division may issue a Temporary Certificate of 
Occupancy to allow the Business Entity to occupy the buildings and structures. 
F. 
Limitations /Permissible Activities 
1. 
A Delegated Building Inspector may not also be a registered contractor. 
2. 
A Delegated Building Inspector may not work directly for, or contract 
with, a registered contractor or contractor for the provision of inspection 
services. 
3. 
A Delegated Building Inspector may not work directly for, or contract 
with, a registered Design Professional whose company has been 
involved in the design or layout of the project. 
4. 
A Delegated Building Inspector shall contract directly, or through their 
employer, with the affected School Board for the provision of inspection 
services. 
4.1.4 
Duties of Special Inspectors 
A. 
Special Inspectors contracted by the Business Entity shall conduct the required 
special inspections as outlined in the currently adopted building code and as 
required by the Statement of Special Inspections received from the Registered 
Design Professional in responsible charge or the Registered Engineer of Record.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-101 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
11 
B. 
Special Inspectors contracted by the Business Entity shall enforce only the codes 
adopted by the Division. 
C. 
The Business Entity shall only use Special Inspectors that are qualified by the 
Division for the specific special inspections as required by the Statement of 
Special Inspections received from the Registered Design Professional in 
responsible charge or the Registered Engineer of Record to work on School 
projects. 
D. 
Special Inspectors contracted by the Business Entity shall cause copies of their 
inspection reports to be sent to the Division. 
E. 
Limitations/Permissible Activities 
1. 
A Special Inspector must be qualified in accordance with the codes 
adopted by the Division. 
2. 
A Special Inspector may not work directly for, or contract with, a 
registered contractor or contractor for the provision of inspection 
services. 
3. 
A Special Inspector may work directly for the registered design 
professional in responsible charge and/or the engineer of record 
provided they are qualified as a special inspector in accordance with the 
codes adopted by the Division. 
4. 
A Special Inspector shall contract directly, or through their employer, with 
the affected School Board for the provision of inspection services. 
4.1.5 
General Requirements for all Delegated Building and Special Inspector Certifications 
A. 
An inspector must apply for certification in a format provided by the Division. 
Application instructions are available on the Division’s website; from the 
Division’s offices at 1697 Cole Blvd, Suite 200, Lakewood, CO 80401; or by 
telephone at 303-239-4100. 
B. 
The applicant must submit the completed application along with the registration 
fee and all required supporting documentation prior to action by the Division. No 
cash payments will be accepted. 
4.1.6 
Duration of Certification 
A. 
Delegated Building and Special Inspector Certifications are valid for a period of 
three (3) years from the date of issuance, unless earlier suspended or revoked. 
4.1.7 
Certification Renewal 
A. 
Renewal of certification is the responsibility of the certified individual. 
B. 
Delegated Building Inspector Certification renewal requires the renewal of the 
national certification outlined in Article 4.1.2 of these rules. Submit proof of 
national certification renewal with the renewal application.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-101 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
12 
C. 
Special Inspector Certification renewal requires documentation verifying 
continued experience and/or training in the special inspection disciplines applied 
for. 
D. 
Applications for renewal shall be submitted no more than thirty (30) days prior to 
expiration. A grace period for renewal may be extended for up to thirty (30) days 
after expiration, after which a late application fee will be assessed. 
E. 
All applicants shall have no longer than thirty (30) days from the original submittal 
to correct deficiencies in their application including missing materials or fees. 
Applications older than thirty (30) days with deficiencies will be considered 
vacated applications and the fees surrendered. 
F. 
Applicants submitting more than sixty (60) days after expiration shall submit all 
documentation required of a new applicant. 
4.1.8 
Denial, Revocation, Suspension, Annulment, Limitation or Modification of Certification 
A. 
Denial of Certification 
1. 
The Division, in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, 
Section 24-4-101, et seq., C.R.S., may deny any certificate or refuse to 
renew a certificate to any applicant for, but not limited to, the following 
reasons: 
a. 
Failure to meet requirements specified in these rules pertaining 
to the issuance of certificates and/or the renewal of certification. 
b. 
Any conduct as described in Article 4.1.8.B.2 of these rules 
pertaining to good cause for disciplinary action. 
c. 
Fraud, misrepresentation, or deception in applying for or 
securing certification, or in taking any written certification 
examination. 
d. 
Aiding and abetting another person in procuring or attempting to 
procure certification for any person who is not eligible for 
certification. 
B. 
Revocation, Suspension, or Limitation of Certification 
1. 
Any certification issued by the Division may be suspended, summarily 
suspended, revoked, or limited for good cause in accordance with the 
Administrative Procedure Act, Section 24-4-101, et seq., C.R.S. 
2. 
Good cause for disciplinary sanctions listed in this Article of these rules 
(denial, revocation, suspension, annulment, limitation, or modification of 
certification) shall include, but not be limited to: 
a. 
Evidence that the minimum standards for certification set forth in 
these rules have not been met. 
b. 
Material misstatement or misrepresentation on the application for 
certification.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-101 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
13 
c. 
Proof of unfitness. 
d. 
Proof of individual's failure to meet, and continue to meet, 
performance standards at the level certified. 
e. 
Obtaining or attempting to obtain certification or recertification by 
fraud, misrepresentation, deception, or subterfuge. 
f. 
Materially altering any Division certificate or using and/or 
possessing any such altered certificate. 
g. 
Unlawfully discriminating in the provisions of services based 
upon protected class, including national origin, race, color, creed, 
religion, sex (including gender identity, gender expression, and 
sexual orientation), age, disability, ancestry, and/or marital 
status. 
h. 
Representing qualifications at any level above the person's 
current certification level. 
i. 
Failure to pay required fees for certification. 
C. 
If the Division finds that grounds exist for the denial, revocation, suspension, 
annulment, limitation, or modification of certification of any applicant, action shall 
be taken according to the provisions of the Colorado Administrative Procedure 
Act, Section 24-4-101, et seq., C.R.S. 
D. 
Upon the denial, revocation, suspension, annulment, limitation, or modification of 
any applicant, all certificates, cards, patches or other identification issued by the 
Division for said certification and accreditation levels shall be returned to the 
Division. 
4.2 
Fire & Suppression Systems Inspector Qualification 
4.2.1 
Wherever Division regulations state that Fire Inspectors performing construction plan 
review and inspections must be “Certified Fire Inspectors” or “Certified Fire Suppression 
Systems Inspector” as defined in Sections 24-33.5-1202 (2.5) and (3), C.R.S., the 
following shall apply. 
4.2.2 
General Requirements for all Fire Inspector Certifications 
A. 
An inspector must apply for certification in a format provided by the Division. 
Application instructions are available on the Division’s website; from the 
Division’s offices at 1697 Cole Blvd., Suite 200, Lakewood, CO 80401; or by 
telephone at 303-239-4100. 
B. 
The applicant must submit the completed application along with the registration 
fee and all required supporting documentation prior to action by the Division. No 
cash payments will be accepted. 
C. 
The application must be accompanied by a letter from the agency's chief 
executive or code official responsible for inspection and plan review attesting for 
every jurisdiction for which they are providing inspection or plan review services:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-101 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
14 
1. 
That the individual is currently employed by, volunteers with or is 
contracted by a county, municipality, special district, or state agency that 
has fire inspection, plan review, and enforcement responsibility; 
2. 
That the agency is responsible for such enforcement in their jurisdiction; 
3. 
That the individual has the responsibility to conduct fire plan reviews 
and/or inspections on behalf of the jurisdiction; and 
4. 
That the individual meets the qualifications (knowledge, skills and ability) 
to conduct fire plan reviews and/or inspections. 
D. 
The applicant must provide evidence of certification, education and/or training 
directly related to plan review and/or inspections appropriate for the certification 
being sought, to include topics relevant to Fire Suppression Systems. Courses 
must be taught by recognized organizations or institutions including (acceptable 
to the Division), but not limited to: 
1. 
Regionally accredited post-secondary institutions 
2. 
National Fire Protection Association 
3. 
International Code Council 
4. 
National Fire Academy 
5. 
American Fire Sprinkler Association 
6. 
National Fire Sprinkler Association 
7. 
Sprinkler Fitters Local 669, Joint Apprenticeship and Training Committee 
8. 
IFMA Fire Protection Institution 
9. 
State chapters of organizations or institutions listed above 
E. 
For applicants seeking reciprocity, submit evidence of current and valid 
certification from another state or jurisdiction that is determined by the Division to 
be at least equivalent to the requirements stated herein. 
F. 
Limitations /Permissible Activities 
1. 
A Certified Fire Inspector may not also be a registered contractor. 
2. 
A Certified Fire Inspector may not work directly for, or contract with, a 
registered contractor, contractor, or building owner for the provision of 
inspection services.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-101 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
15 
3. 
A Certified Fire Inspector may contract directly, or through their 
employer, with one or more municipalities, counties, fire protection 
districts or other local AHJs for the provision of inspection services. In 
such cases where the inspector is performing inspection or plan review 
services for multiple jurisdictions, the agency letter defined in Section 
4.2.2.C of these rules shall be provided to the Division for all jurisdictions 
where services are to be provided within fourteen (14) days of the 
assumption of said duties. 
4.2.3 
There are three (3) levels of qualification for Fire Inspectors. Inspectors must be qualified 
to the appropriate level defined in Sections A through C of this Article for the task 
performed. 
A. 
FIRE INSPECTOR I - In order to become qualified as Fire Inspector I, which 
qualifies the individual to conduct maintenance inspections, as well as 
inspections of Mobile Food Establishments, as defined in Section 29-11.6-102 
(6), C.R.S., a person must meet at least one (1) of the following criteria: 
1. 
Possess current and valid inspector qualification(s) issued by a nationally 
recognized organization (acceptable to the Division), which includes 
demonstrated knowledge in fire protection and life safety systems, plan 
review and inspection. The following qualifications are approved: 
a. 
ICC Fire Inspector I 
b. 
NFPA Fire Inspector I; or 
2. 
Submit documentation to the Division to demonstrate that they have the 
requisite skills and knowledge specified in NFPA 1031 – Standard for 
Professional Qualifications for Fire Inspector and Plans Examiner for Fire 
Inspector I, including education, training and experience. The following 
list identifies examples of education, training, and experience that may 
be considered as equivalent to the requisite skills and knowledge for Fire 
Inspector I. This list should not be considered all-inclusive. 
a. 
Current Colorado license as a registered professional engineer 
specializing in fire protection. 
b. 
Submit evidence of current and valid qualification in another 
state, which is determined by the Division to be at least 
equivalent to the requirements listed herein. 
B. 
FIRE INSPECTOR II - In order to become qualified as Fire Inspector II, which, in 
addition to maintenance inspections, also qualifies the individual to conduct 
construction inspections, a person must meet at least one (1) of the following 
criteria: 
1. 
Possess current and valid inspector qualification(s) issued by a nationally 
recognized organization (acceptable to the Division), which includes 
demonstrated knowledge in fire protection and life safety systems, plan 
review and inspection. The following qualifications are approved: 
a. 
ICC Fire Inspector II 
b. 
NFPA Fire Inspector II; or

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-101 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
16 
2. 
Submit documentation to the Division to demonstrate that they have the 
requisite skills and knowledge specified in NFPA 1031 – Standard for 
Professional Qualifications for Fire Inspector and Plans Examiner for Fire 
Inspector II including education, training, and experience. The following 
list identifies examples of education, training, and experience that may 
be considered as equivalent to the requisite skills and knowledge for Fire 
Inspector II. This list should not be considered all-inclusive. 
a. 
Current Colorado license as a registered professional engineer 
specializing in fire protection. 
b. 
Submit evidence of current and valid qualification in another 
state, which is determined by the Division to be at least 
equivalent to the requirements listed herein. 
C. 
FIRE INSPECTOR III – PLANS EXAMINER - In order to become qualified as 
Fire Inspector III – Plans Examiner, which, in addition to maintenance and 
construction inspections, also qualifies the individual to conduct plan reviews, a 
person must meet at least one (1) of the following criteria: 
1. 
Possess current and valid inspector qualification(s) issued by a nationally 
recognized organization, which includes demonstrated knowledge in fire 
protection and life safety systems, plan review and inspection. The 
following qualifications are approved: 
a. 
ICC Fire Inspector II and ICC Fire Plans Examiner 
b. 
ICC Fire Inspector II and ICC Building Plans Examiner 
c. 
NFPA Fire Inspector II and NFPA Plans Examiner; or 
2. 
Submit documentation to the Division to demonstrate that they have the 
requisite skills and knowledge specified in NFPA 1031 – Standard for 
Professional Qualifications for Fire Inspector and Plans Examiner for Fire 
Inspector II and for Fire Plans Examiner II, including education, training, 
and experience. The following list identifies examples of education, 
training, and experience that may be considered as equivalent to the 
requisite skills and knowledge for Fire Inspector III. This list should not 
be considered all-inclusive. 
a. 
A combination of five (5) years of education and work experience 
in fire protection and/or code enforcement is required. Education 
must be an associate degree or above in Fire Science, Fire 
Prevention, Fire Protection Engineering or other Division 
approved related major. Work experience must be specifically in 
fire prevention, fire protection, code enforcement, or inspection. 
b. 
Current Colorado license as a registered professional engineer 
specializing in fire protection. 
c. 
Submit evidence of current and valid qualification in another 
state, which is determined by the Division to be at least 
equivalent to the requirements listed herein. 
4.2.4 
Duration of Certification

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-101 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
17 
A. 
Fire Inspector Certifications are valid for a period of three (3) years from the date 
of issuance, unless earlier suspended or revoked. 
B. 
Certified Fire Inspectors who are separated from employment may not perform 
plan review or inspection services unless they become employed by a new 
agency and provide a letter pursuant to Article 4.2.2.C of these rules. 
4.2.5 
Certification Renewal 
A. 
Renewal of certification is the responsibility of the certified individual. An 
individual who was certified as a Fire Suppression Systems Inspector or a Fire 
Suppression Systems Inspector-Plan Reviewer prior to April 1, 2019, may 
perform all of the responsibilities of a Fire Suppression Systems Inspector or a 
Fire Suppression Systems Inspector-Plan Reviewer until the certification is 
expired. Upon application for renewal, the individual will need to apply to be 
certified as a Fire Inspector II or Fire Inspector III-Plans Examiner, whichever is 
applicable. 
B. 
Certification renewal requires an application accompanied by the following: 
1. 
A letter in accordance with Article 4.2.2.C of these rules. 
2. 
Certification renewal is contingent on meeting one (1) of the following 
educational requirements during the three (3) year certification period: 
a. 
Fifteen (15) hours of continuing education relating to the field of 
building construction or fire protection, as applicable, including, 
but not limited to, classes, seminars, and training conducted by 
professional organizations or trade associations; or 
b. 
Documentation to the Division of 1.5 CEUs relevant to the field of 
building construction or fire protection, as applicable, by 
participation in educational and professional activities. CEUs will 
be granted for the following professional development activities: 
i. 
Participation as a student in a seminar or technical 
session related to building construction or fire protection 
and life safety systems (depending upon the 
certification) conducted by a qualified organization. | 0.1 
CEU per clock hour of attendance 
ii. 
Attendance at NFPA and/or ICC code development 
hearings related to fire protection, fire prevention or life 
safety. | .01 CEU per clock hour of attendance up to 1.0 
CEU per renewal period 
iii. 
Committee or board service for NFPA and/or ICC for one 
(1) full year. | .5 CEU per committee, per year 
iv. 
Participation as a student in a university, community 
college, junior college, technical or vocational school in a 
course related to building construction or fire protection, 
fire prevention or life safety (depending upon the 
certification). | 1.0 CEU per credit hour

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-101 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
18 
v. 
Instruction of a seminar or technical session delivered 
for a related professional association, state or local code 
enforcement agency, standards writing organization or 
any related program. | 0.1 CEU per clock hour of 
instruction delivered 
vi. 
Participation as an instructor in a university, community 
college, junior college, technical or vocational school in a 
course related to building construction or fire protection, 
fire prevention or life safety (depending upon the 
certification). | 1.0 CEU per credit hour 
vii. 
Documented in-house training or continuous 
employment as a code official, plans examiner, or 
inspector. Training shall be documented and approved 
by the chief executive, fire chief or training officer for the 
applicant’s organization. | Up to 0.3 CEU per renewal 
period 
viii. 
Publication of a paper, book or technical article for a 
related textbook or professional trade journal. | 1.0 CEU 
per publication 
c. 
Successful renewal of equivalent ICC or NFPA certifications 
shall be considered as acceptable criteria for renewal of the 
State inspector certification. Submit proof of ICC or NFPA 
renewal with the renewal application. 
3. 
Payment of the required renewal fee. 
C. 
Applications for renewal shall be submitted no more than thirty (30) days prior to 
expiration, A grace period for renewal may be extended for up to thirty (30) days 
after expiration, after which a late application fee will be assessed. 
D. 
All applicants shall have no longer than thirty (30) days from the original submittal 
to correct deficiencies in their application including missing materials or fees. 
Applications older than thirty (30) days with deficiencies will be considered 
vacated applications and the fees surrendered. 
________________________

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-101 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
19 
1 Pertinent courses provided by organizations listed in Article 4.2.2.D of these rules, as well as the 
National Fire Sprinkler Association, National Fire Alarm Association, American Fire Sprinkler Association, 
and International Fire Marshal’s Association, are deemed qualified. Courses provided by other entities 
may be accepted after review by the Division. 
E. 
Applicants submitting more than sixty (60) days after expiration shall submit all 
documentation required of a new applicant in addition to documentation of 
continuing education. 
4.2.6 
Denial, Revocation, Suspension, Annulment, Limitation or Modification of Certification 
A. 
Denial of Certification 
1. 
The Division, in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, 
Section 24-4-101, et seq., C.R.S., may deny any certificate or refuse to 
renew a certificate to any applicant for, but not limited to, the following 
reasons: 
a. 
Failure to meet requirements specified in these rules pertaining 
to the issuance of certificates and/or the renewal of certification. 
b. 
Any conduct as described in Article 4.2.6.B.2 of these rules 
pertaining to good cause for disciplinary action. 
c. 
Fraud, misrepresentation, or deception in applying for or 
securing certification, or in taking any written certification 
examination. 
d. 
Aiding and abetting another person in procuring or attempting to 
procure certification for any person who is not eligible for 
certification. 
B. 
Revocation, Suspension, or Limitation of Certification 
1. 
Any certification issued by the Division may be suspended, summarily 
suspended, revoked, or limited for good cause in accordance with the 
Administrative Procedure Act, Section 24-4-101, et seq., C.R.S. 
2. 
Good cause for disciplinary sanctions listed in this Article (denial, 
revocation, suspension, annulment, limitation, or modification of 
certification) shall include, but not be limited to: 
a. 
Evidence that the minimum standards for certification set forth in 
these rules have not been met. 
b. 
Material misstatement or misrepresentation on the application for 
certification. 
c. 
Proof of unfitness. 
d. 
Proof of individual's failure to meet, and continue to meet, 
performance standards at the level certified.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-101 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
20 
e. 
Obtaining or attempting to obtain certification or recertification by 
fraud, misrepresentation, deception, or subterfuge. 
f. 
Materially altering any Division certificate or using and/or 
possessing any such altered certificate. 
g. 
Unlawfully discriminating in the provisions of services based 
upon protected class, including national origin, race, color, creed, 
religion, sex (including gender identity, gender expression, and 
sexual orientation), age, disability, ancestry, and/or marital 
status. 
h. 
Representing qualifications at any level above the person's 
current certification level. 
i. 
Failure to pay required fees for certification. 
C. 
In addition to those items listed in Article 4.2.6.B.2 of these rules, good cause for 
disciplinary sanctions listed in this Article (denial, revocation, suspension, 
annulment, limitation, or modification of certification) against the certification held 
by an exam proctor shall include, but not be limited to: 
1. 
Failure to adhere to the policies, procedures, and administrative 
requirements for delivery, documenting, test administration, and 
certification as adopted, administered and/or recognized by the Division. 
2. 
Failure to maintain security over written exams, including unauthorized 
access or reproduction of examination materials. 
D. 
If the Division finds that grounds exist for the denial, revocation, suspension, 
annulment, limitation, or modification of certification of any applicant, action shall 
be taken according to the provisions of the Colorado Administrative Procedure 
Act, Section 24-4-101, et seq., C.R.S. 
E. 
Upon the denial, revocation, suspension, annulment, limitation, or modification of 
any applicant, all certificates, cards, patches or other identification issued by the 
Division for said certification and accreditation levels shall be returned to the 
Division. 
ARTICLE 5 - ENFORCEMENT 
5.1 
The Division will enforce the requirements of these rules by following the provisions of this Article 
5.1. 
5.1.1 
The Division may issue a notice of violation to a person who is believed to have violated 
these rules. The notice shall be delivered to the alleged violator by certified mail, return 
receipt requested, or by any means that verifies receipt as reliably as certified mail, return 
receipt requested. 
5.1.2 
The notice of violation shall allege the facts that constitute a violation. 
5.1.3 
The notice of violation may require the alleged violator to correct the alleged violation or 
to stop work until such time as acceptable conditions exist to continue work.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-101 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
21 
5.1.4 
Within ten (10) working days after delivery of the notice of violation, the alleged violator 
may request in writing an informal conference with the Director (or designee) concerning 
the notice of violation. If the alleged violator fails to request the conference within ten (10) 
days, the notice of violation is final and not subject to further review, and any requirement 
to correct the alleged violation pursuant to Article 5.1.3 of these rules becomes a binding 
enforcement order. 
5.1.5 
Upon receipt of a request for an informal conference, the Director (or designee) shall set 
a reasonable time and place for the conference and shall notify the alleged violator of the 
time and place of the conference. At the conference, the alleged violator may present 
evidence and arguments concerning the allegations in the notice of violation. 
5.1.6 
Within twenty (20) working days after the informal conference, the Director shall uphold, 
modify, or strike the allegations within the notice of violation and may issue an 
enforcement order. The decision and, if applicable, enforcement order shall be delivered 
to the alleged violator by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by any means that 
verifies receipt as reliably as certified mail, return receipt requested. 
5.2 
A person who is the subject of, and is adversely affected by, a notice of violation or enforcement 
order issued pursuant to Article 5 of these rules may appeal such action to the Executive Director. 
The Executive Director shall hold a hearing to review such notice or order and take final action in 
accordance with Section 24-4-105(11), C.R.S. and may either conduct the hearing personally or 
appoint an administrative law judge from the Department of Personnel & Administration. 
5.2.1 
Final agency action shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to C.R.S. Article 4 of Title 
24. 
5.2.2 
An alleged violator who is required to correct an action pursuant to Section 24-4-105(12), 
C.R.S. shall be afforded the procedures set forth in Section 24-4-104(3), C.R.S., to the 
extent applicable. 
5.3 
The Director may file suit in district court in the judicial district in which a violation is alleged to 
have occurred to judicially enforce an enforcement order issued pursuant to this Article. 
5.4 
In addition to the remedies provided in this Article, the Director is authorized to apply to the 
district court, in the judicial district where the violation has occurred, for a temporary or permanent 
injunction to restrain any person from violating any provision of Article 5.1 of these rules 
regardless of whether there is an adequate remedy at law. 
ARTICLE 6 - FEES AND CHARGES 
6.1 
The Division shall charge the following for Inspector Certification Fees: 
● 
Certification or Renewal of Inspectors by document review | $75.00 
● 
Certification or Renewal of Inspectors by reciprocity of equivalent ICC or NFPA 
certifications | $25.00 
● 
Late renewal fee | $25.00 
6.2. 
Fees may be waived or modified when appropriate at the discretion of the Director or designee. 
Request for waiver or modification shall be in writing.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1507-101 
Division of Fire Prevention and Control 
 
22 
ARTICLE 7 - INQUIRIES 
7.1 
Questions, clarification, or interpretation of these Rules should be addressed in writing to: Fire & 
Life Safety Section Chief, Colorado Division of Fire Prevention and Control, 1697 Cole Blvd., 
Suite 200, Lakewood, CO 80401. Telephone number: (303) 239-4100. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
New rule eff. 03/30/2019. 
Rules 2.1, 3.1, 3.2, 4.1.2, 4.1.3-4.1.7, 4.2.2, 4.2.4-4.2.6, 6.1, 6.2, 7.1 eff. 06/30/2021. 
Rule 3.2.4 emer. rule eff. 10/25/2022. 
Rules 2.1, 3.2.4 1, 4.1-4.1.7 eff. 01/14/2022. 
Rules 1.1, Article 2, 3.2, 3.2.1, 3.2.4.1, 3.3, 3.4.2, Articles 4-7 eff. 08/14/2025. 
Rules 1.1, Article 2, 3.1-3.2.2, 3.2.7, 3.3, 3.4.2, Articles 4-6 eff. 12/30/2025.
