---
id: "8_CCR_1204-8"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1204-8"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=7574&fileName=8%20CCR%201204-8&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1204-8. 8 CCR 1204-8

Code of Colorado Regulations 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 
Markets Division 
RULES AND REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO THE ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF 
THE COLORADO AGRICULTURAL MARKETING ACT OF 1939 
8 CCR 1204-8 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Part 1. 
The fiscal year for the Marketing Order Regulating the Handling of Wheat Grown in the Counties of 
Colorado covered by the Order, issued May 5, 1958, and as amended on May 27, 1959, June 1, 1988, 
and March 16, 1992, shall begin July 1, and of each year and end June 30 of the following year. 
Part 2. Statement of Basis and Purpose 
2.1. 
Adopted June 26, 1992 – Effective July 30, 1992 
The following rules and regulations are hereby promulgated under the authority of the Colorado 
Agricultural Marketing Act of 1939, 35-28-113 (4), C.R.S. (House Bill 92-1044). This rule 
establishes a fiscal year beginning July 1 of each year and ending June 30 of the following year 
for the Wheat Marketing Order, said marketing order having been established pursuant to 35-28-
107 (1), C.R.S. (1984). 
House Bill 92-1044 requires in Section 2 that the commissioner of agriculture establish a fiscal 
year for the Wheat Marketing Order after consideration of recommendations by the board of 
control of such order. Said board of control has recommended a fiscal year beginning July 1 of 
each year and ending June 30 of the following year. 
2.2. 
Adopted April 11, 2018 – Effective May 30, 2018 
The purpose of these amendments is to reformat the rule to make it consistent with other 
Department rules. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 05/30/2018. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado
