---
id: "8_CCR_1202-13"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1202-13"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=8086&fileName=8%20CCR%201202-13&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1202-13. 8 CCR 1202-13

1 
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
RULES PERTAINING TO THE ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF THE CUSTOM 
PROCESSING OF MEAT ANIMALS ACT 
8 CCR 1202-13 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
General and Specific Authority: C.R.S. § 35-33-104(1) 
PART 1. 
DEFINITIONS AND CONSTRUCTION OF TERMS 
1.1. 
As used in these rules, and as the context requires, the singular includes the plural, the 
masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter, and vice versa. 
1.2. 
Any term used in these rules that is defined in the Custom Processing of Meat Animals Act, §§ 
35-33-101 through 35-33-407, inclusive, C.R.S. (hereinafter referred to as the “Act”) shall have 
the meaning set forth for such term in the Act. 
1.3. 
“Dress,” “dressing,” and “dressed” mean eviscerating, removing the hide or skin of a livestock 
animal, and/or otherwise preparing the animal's carcass for cutting and further processing. 
1.4. 
“Large game animal” means a large game animal within the scope of the term “game wildlife” 
defined in § 33-1-102(23), C.R.S. 
1.5. 
“Mobile slaughtering unit” means any conveyance that can be lawfully driven, pulled, or otherwise 
moved on or over any street, road, highway, or other right of way, outfitted with equipment and 
utensils, and used to slaughter, dress, and/or further process livestock from place to place, or to 
slaughter and/or dress livestock and transport any carcass of such livestock, or any part thereof 
to a processing facility for further processing. This definition includes, for example, trucks 
equipped with a hoist and a fully-enclosed work room where processing is done; and trucks 
equipped with a hoist and a separate, fully-enclosed trailer attached to such truck that contains a 
work room where processing is done. 
1.6. 
“Sanitize” and “sanitized” mean to treat a clean surface with any of the following methods or 
substances: 
1.6.1. 
water at 180° F; 
1.6.2. 
a chlorine and water solution of: 
1.6.2.1. 100 parts of chlorine per million of water when applied by sponge or cloth; 
1.6.2.2. 200 parts of chlorine per million of water when applied directly by spray; or 
1.6.2.3. 50 parts of chlorine per million of water when used to soak the item in a container 
for at least one minute; or 
1.6.3. 
any substance intended to be used to sanitize equipment and/or utensils in a processing 
facility and labeled as approved by the United States Department of Agriculture. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-13 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
2 
PART 2. 
REQUIREMENTS FOR PROCESSING FACILITIES. 
2.1. 
Except as provided in Part 3.1 below, any processing facility licensed under the Act shall comply 
with all of the requirements in this Part 2. 
2.2. 
The following areas shall have a concrete floor or surface that is sloped and drained into a waste 
disposal system: 
2.2.1. 
any holding pen; 
2.2.2. 
the entire length of any alley not more than twelve feet in length; or 
2.2.3. 
up to twelve feet of any longer alley that leads directly, and is immediately adjacent to the 
area where livestock are slaughtered and dressed. 
2.3. 
Any slaughtering or dressing must be done in a room separate from any room where other 
processing is done; provided, however, slaughtering or dressing may be done in the same room 
where cutting, wrapping and other processing of meat is done if: 
2.3.1. 
the slaughtering or dressing is not done in such room at the same time cutting, wrapping, 
or any other processing of meat is done; and 
2.3.2. 
the room and all equipment and utensils used are thoroughly cleaned and sanitized after 
any slaughtering or dressing is done, and before any cutting, packing, or other 
processing of meat is done. 
2.4. 
All floors in any room where processing is done or where meat is held in storage, other than a 
freezer, must be: drained into a waste disposal system; coved at the wall to prevent meat 
products, waste from processing, or any liquids from penetrating between any wall and floor, or 
under any wall; and constructed of and finished with durable, water-resistant materials that are 
capable of being readily and thoroughly cleaned. 
2.5. 
The walls, ceilings, columns, and other structural parts of any room where processing is done or 
where meat is held in storage shall be constructed of and finished with durable, water-resistant 
materials that are capable of being readily and thoroughly cleaned. 
2.6. 
Any doorway through which any meat product is transferred shall be wide enough so that there is 
no contact between the doorways and the meat product. Doors in such doorways must be 
constructed of either rust-resistant metal or other materials that are water-resistant, capable of 
being readily and thoroughly cleaned, and do not flake, chip, or splinter. If made of wood, all 
surfaces of such doors and all doorjambs must be securely clad with a rust-resistant metal, and 
be so affixed so as not to provide crevices for dirt or vermin, or be coated with a water-based 
epoxy coating intended for such use and labelled as approved by the United States Department 
of Agriculture. 
2.7. 
Any rails used to transport meat product shall be located, and sufficient space shall be provided 
in all passageways so that meat product does not come into contact with walls, posts, or other 
structural parts of the processing facility, or with any containers or other things that may be 
located in the processing facility or transported through it. 
2.8. 
Every processing facility must have a cooler and a freezer for holding or storing meat product 
under refrigeration.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-13 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
3 
2.9. 
All coolers must be large enough, and constructed, maintained and operated so that the meat 
product is hung or otherwise stored therein without contacting any interior surface of the cooler, 
and with sufficient space to permit inspection of the meat product. The refrigeration unit for any 
cooler must deliver sufficient refrigerated air to maintain the cooler at an ambient temperature of 
no more than 41° F. 
2.10. 
All freezers must be large enough, and constructed, maintained and operated so that refrigerated 
air adequately flows under and around the meat product held or stored therein to maintain the 
required level of refrigeration. The refrigeration unit for any freezer must deliver sufficient 
refrigerated air to maintain the freezer at an ambient temperature consistent with the 
requirements in § 35-33-103(12), C.R.S. 
2.11. 
All lighting fixtures must use safety shielded light bulbs in all areas where meat product is 
exposed, and provide ample illumination for all work areas. 
2.12. 
All work table surfaces must be constructed of rust-resistant metal; provided, however, work table 
surfaces may be constructed of other durable, water-resistant, non-metal materials if they are free 
of cracks and are capable of being readily and thoroughly cleaned. 
2.13. 
All equipment used in processing, including, but not limited to, saws, tenderizers, and meat 
grinders, shall be of such material and construction that they can be readily and thoroughly 
cleaned. Such requirements include, but are not limited to: being capable of disassembly for 
thorough cleaning; rust-resistant and free from painted surfaces in any area of the equipment that 
comes into contact with the meat product; supported by rust-resistant metal legs; and movable for 
cleaning. All pans, trays, and utensils used for processing shall also be constructed of rust-
resistant materials that are capable of being readily and thoroughly cleaned. 
2.14. 
The processing facility must be equipped with a wash basin of adequate size for cleaning 
equipment and utensils. The wash basin must be: constructed of a rust-resistant metal capable of 
being readily and thoroughly cleaned; and equipped with hot and cold running, potable water 
delivered through a combination mixing faucet. 
2.15. 
Each room where processing is done shall be equipped with a hand washing facility. The hand 
washing facility must be equipped with: a sink that is not hand operated; hot and cold running, 
potable water delivered through a combination mixing faucet; liquid or powdered soap delivered 
in a wall- or sink-mounted dispenser; an adequate supply of disposable, single-use sanitary 
towels in a wall-mounted dispenser; and a receptacle for used sanitary towels. 
PART 3. 
REQUIREMENTS FOR PROCESSING FACILITIES ENGAGED IN CUSTOM 
PROCESSING OF LARGE GAME ANIMALS. 
3.1. 
Any custom processing facility licensed under the Act engaged exclusively in processing large 
game animals that does not have possession of a carcass, or any part thereof, or any meat 
product derived therefrom for more than four hours shall: 
3.1.1. 
comply with the requirements of Parts 2.4 through 2.8, inclusive, and 2.12 through 2.15, 
inclusive, of these rules, and Part 2.16 of these rules, except that the sink may be hand 
operated; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-13 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
4 
3.1.2. 
deliver to the owner of the carcass at the time it is delivered to the custom processing 
facility for custom processing a receipt which includes the following information: the 
name, address, and telephone number of the owner of the carcass; the name, address, 
and telephone number of the processor; the date and time the carcass was received at 
the custom processing facility; a description of the large game animal; and the number of 
the Colorado Division of Wildlife tag (or similar tag issued by the appropriate government 
agency of another state if the large game animal was taken in such other state) affixed to 
the carcass. The processor shall maintain a copy of such receipt for a period of not less 
than two years from the date it is issued. 
3.2. 
If the carcass of any large game animal, or any part thereof, or the meat product derived 
therefrom is in the possession of a processing facility for more than four (4) hours, the processing 
facility must comply with the requirements of Parts 2.4 through 2.16, inclusive, of these rules. 
3.3. 
Any carcass of a large game animal delivered to a processing facility for custom processing must 
be tagged with a Colorado Division of Wildlife tag (or similar tag issued by the appropriate 
government agency of another state if the large game animal was taken in such other state) at 
the time of delivery. 
3.4. 
Any carcass of a large game animal must be dressed in an enclosed room or area that is 
separate from the rest of the processing facility. 
PART 4. 
REQUIREMENTS FOR MOBILE SLAUGHTERING UNITS 
4.1. 
Mobile slaughtering units may not be regularly used at a fixed location so as to avoid compliance 
with the licensing and other requirements of the Act and Parts 2, 3, 5, and 6 of these rules for 
processing facilities. 
4.2. 
The work room of a mobile slaughtering unit where processing is done must be fully-enclosed so 
as to keep out dust, dirt, and other contaminants. It must be equipped with a rail system for 
hanging carcasses that is constructed and installed to prevent any carcass from touching any 
exterior or interior surface of the work room. If the rail system extends outside the work room 
through any door, the door must be sealed around any rail when it is closed so as to prevent any 
dust, dirt, or other contaminants from entering the work room. 
4.3. 
The work room of a mobile slaughtering unit where processing is done must be equipped with an 
operating refrigeration system that delivers refrigerated air to the interior of the work room at a 
temperature of no more than 38° F. 
4.4. 
All dressed carcasses transported in a mobile slaughtering unit must be contained in the 
refrigerated work room of such unit. If hog carcasses are transported in a mobile slaughtering unit 
with the carcasses of any other species of livestock, the hog carcasses must be kept separate 
and prevented from touching the carcasses of such other livestock. 
4.5. 
Any mobile slaughtering unit that is used to slaughter livestock and transport the slaughtered 
animal to a processing facility for dressing to be completed within two hours after slaughter must 
be equipped with an enclosure for transporting the animal. The enclosure may be part of a trailer 
attached to the hoist-equipped truck of the unit. The enclosure must be fully-enclosed so as to 
keep out dust, dirt, and other contaminants, and must be sealed to prevent spillage or leaking of 
any liquids from the slaughtered animal. Also, its interior surfaces must be constructed of durable, 
water-resistant materials that are capable of being readily and thoroughly cleaned.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-13 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
5 
4.6. 
The walls, ceilings, and other structural parts of the interior of a mobile slaughtering unit's work 
room must be constructed of and finished with durable, water-resistant materials that are capable 
of being readily and thoroughly cleaned. All joints must be sealed so as not to provide crevices for 
dirt or vermin. The floor of the work room must be coved at the walls to prevent meat products, 
waste from processing, or any liquids from penetrating between any wall and floor, or under any 
wall. 
4.7. 
The mobile slaughtering unit must be equipped with an apparatus to deliver sufficient cold and 
hot potable water to wash equipment and utensils used in processing, and for use as a hand 
washing facility. The mobile slaughtering unit shall also be equipped with liquid or powdered soap 
in a wall- or sink-mounted dispenser, an adequate supply of disposable, single-use sanitary 
towels in a wall-mounted dispenser, and a receptacle for used sanitary towels. 
4.8. 
All mobile slaughtering units shall be equipped with containers of sufficient size and number for 
transport and disposal of waste from processing. Such containers shall have secure lids, and be 
securely fastened to the mobile slaughtering unit so as to prevent any spillage of its contents. 
Such containers shall be constructed of durable, water-resistant materials that are capable of 
being readily and thoroughly cleaned. 
4.9. 
The sanitary requirements in Part 5 of these rules shall apply to mobile slaughtering units to the 
extent such units have comparable facilities, equipment, and utensils. 
PART 5. 
SANITARY REQUIREMENTS 
5.1. 
Except as provided in Part 4.9 above, all processing facilities licensed under the Act shall comply 
with the requirements of this Part 5. 
5.2. 
The exterior premises of any processing facility, including, without limitation, loading docks and 
other areas where vehicles are loaded and unloaded, and any driveways, alleys, yards, and pens, 
shall be kept in a clean and orderly condition and drained to prevent the accumulation of standing 
water. 
5.3. 
All catch basins and similar features of any waste disposal system shall be maintained in a clean 
and orderly condition to prevent the accumulation therein of waste products and avoid the 
creation of offensive odors. 
5.4. 
All rooms and other interior areas shall be free from any condition that could result in 
contamination of the meat product, including, without limitation, dirt, dust, or odors from catch 
basins, livestock pens, hide cellars, or any other source. 
5.5. 
All rooms and other interior areas shall be thoroughly cleaned after each day's use. All equipment 
and utensils used for meat processing shall be thoroughly cleaned and sanitized: 
5.5.1. 
each time there is a change in processing from raw pork to raw meat products or to other 
species, or a change in processing from raw meat products to ready-to-eat meat 
products; 
5.5.2. 
after four hours of operation if the room where such equipment and utensils are used is at 
any time maintained at an ambient temperature of more than 50° F; and 
5.5.3. 
after each working day's use. Any item of equipment or utensil must be thoroughly 
cleaned and sanitized after any event at or during which time contamination of such 
equipment or utensil may have occurred. All cleaned and sanitized equipment and 
utensils, when stored after use, shall be protected and stored so as to avoid 
contamination.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-13 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
6 
5.6. 
Meat product must be stored on racks or shelves elevated at least two inches from the floor in 
any freezer, and at least six inches from the floor in any cooler. Such racks and shelves must be 
constructed of durable, rust- and water-resistant materials that are capable of being readily and 
thoroughly cleaned. No meat product shall be placed beneath any carcass. Any non-food 
products or supplies shall be stored in a storage room or area separate from any room or area 
where meat product is processed or stored, on racks or shelves elevated from the floor at least 
12 inches, and must be constructed of durable, rust and water resistant materials that are 
capable of being readily and thoroughly cleaned. 
5.7. 
Before being placed in a cooler, any carcass must be cleaned and free from any hair, waste 
product, dirt, or anything else that could contaminate the meat. 
5.8. 
If any large game animal is processed in any processing facility where other species of livestock 
is processed, all rooms, equipment, and utensils used in processing the large game animal shall 
be thoroughly cleaned and sanitized before they are used to process any such other livestock. 
The carcass and meat product of any large game animal shall at all times be kept separate and 
apart from the carcass and meat product of other species of livestock. 
5.9. 
Every processing facility shall establish and maintain procedures for excluding and removing flies, 
rats, mice, and any other vermin from the interior premises of the processing facility. 
5.10. 
All animals, other than those presented for processing, shall be excluded from the interior 
premises of a processing facility. 
PART 6. 
LICENSE EXPIRATION DATE 
6.1. 
The expiration date for a license to operate a processing facility shall be December 31. 
Part 7. DISPOSAL OF INEDIBLE WASTE 
7.1. 
All inedible waste shall be denatured and disposed of by a method approved by the 
Commissioner. 
7.2. 
Acceptable methods of denaturing: 
7.2.1. 
FD&C green No. 3 coloring; 
7.2.2. 
FD&C blue No. 1 coloring; 
7.2.3. 
FD&C blue No. 2 coloring; 
7.2.4. 
Finely powdered charcoal; or 
7.2.5. 
Other proprietary substance approved by the USDA FSIS Administrator. 
7.3. 
Before the denaturing agents are applied to articles in pieces more than 4 inches in diameter, the 
pieces shall be freely slashed or sectioned. If the articles are in pieces not more than 4 inches in 
diameter, slashing or sectioning will not be necessary. The application of any of the denaturing to 
the outer surface of molds or blocks of boneless meat, meat byproducts, or meat food products 
shall not be adequate. The denaturing agent must be mixed intimately with all of the material to 
be denatured, and must be applied in such quantity and manner that it cannot easily and readily 
be removed by washing or soaking. A sufficient amount of the appropriate agent shall be used to 
give the material a distinctive color, odor, or taste so that such material cannot be confused with 
an article of human food.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-13 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
7 
7.4. 
Any container used in the processing facility for the disposal of waste generated from processing, 
other than a disposable waste container that is discarded at the end of the work day, must be 
constructed and finished with durable, water-resistant materials that are capable of being readily 
and thoroughly cleaned. All waste containers, including, without limitation, disposable waste 
containers, shall be limited to and clearly marked for such use, and maintained in a clean and 
sanitary condition. 
7.5. 
All waste products from processing shall be disposed of daily, or stored for later disposal in a 
manner that does not create any condition that could cause contamination, or otherwise 
adversely affect the wholesomeness or quality of any meat product, or generate offensive odors 
or other objectionable conditions. 
7.6. 
Approved methods of disposal include: 
7.6.1. 
Disposal to a licensed rendering company; 
7.6.2. 
Sanitation Landfill; 
7.6.3. 
Composting, subject to approval by county and / or state health agency; 
7.6.4. 
Burial on site, subject to approval by county and / or state health agency; or 
7.6.5. 
Retail or wholesale sale under the following conditions: 
7.6.5.1. Waste products to be sold are limited to the hides, antler, and bones, of wild 
game only; 
7.6.5.2. The processor notifies the department prior to engaging in retail or wholesale 
sales of hide, antler, and bone products; 
7.6.5.3. The processor collects a signed disclosure from the owner of the animal carcass 
advising them that the hide, antler, or bone may be sold as a method of disposal. 
These records must be kept for a period of at least two years, and made 
available to the Commissioner upon request; and 
7.6.5.4. The bones must be decharacterized and kept segregated from all other edible 
and non-edible material in clean containers. Raw bone must be stored under 
refrigeration until delivered to buyer. 
Parts 8-9. 
Reserved 
PART 10. 
STATEMENTS OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE 
10.1. 
Adopted July 16, 2009 – Effective August 30, 2009 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 
The Commissioner's authority for the adoption of these Permanent Rule Amendments is set forth in § 35-
33-104(1), C.R.S. (2008), and § 35-33-206(3), C.R.S., as enacted in SB 09-117. 
PURPOSE: 
The purpose of these Permanent Rule Amendments is to adopt new rules pertaining to the Colorado 
Slaughter, Processing, and Sale of Meat Animals Act to comply with the amendments to the Act set forth 
in SB 09-117.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-13 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
8 
These Permanent Rule Amendments: 
a. 
Incorporate the Act’s new short title wherever cited in the rules. 
b. 
Modify the terms “processing facility” to read “custom processing facility.” 
c. 
Establish a license expiration date of June 30. 
d. 
Amend references to sections in the Act to refer to amended section numbers. 
e. 
Delete obsolete rule definition of “processing” which is now defined in the Act. 
f. 
Add a section to contain the statements of basis, specific statutory authority and purpose. 
g. 
Remove the rule contained under the Animal Industry Division section of the CCR at 8 CCR 
1201-14 to the Inspection and Consumer Services Division section of the CCR with a new 
number of 8 CCR 1202-13 and a new rule title. 
FACTUAL AND POLICY BASIS: 
The factual and policy issues pertaining to the adoption of these Permanent Rule Amendments are as 
follows: 
1. 
The Department of Regulatory Agencies performed a Sunset Review in 2008 of the Colorado 
Slaughter, Processing and Sale of Meat Animals Act, which resulted in several legislative 
amendments to the Act enacted by SB 09-117, effective July 1, 2009, that: 
a. 
Change the title of the Act to the Custom Processing of Meat Animals Act. These rules 
reflect the correct short title of the Act. 
b. 
Specify that the Commissioner has jurisdiction only over meat processing facilities that 
perform custom processing. As used throughout the rules, the term “processing facility” is 
amended to read “custom processing facility” in order to clarify that jurisdiction is only 
over those facilities that perform custom processing. 
c. 
Remove the license expiration date from the Act and require that the Commissioner 
establish the date in rule. These rules establish a license expiration date of June 30. 
d. 
Amend some section numbers in the Act. These rules refer to the amended section 
numbers. 
2. 
The Commissioner intends to adopt Emergency Amendments to the Rules on July 1, 2009 at 8 
CCR 1201-14 in order to implement the changes to the Act made by the General Assembly in SB 
09-117. These Permanent Rule Amendments will make permanent those Emergency Rule 
Amendments. 
10.2. 
Adopted April 9, 2013 – Effective July 1, 2014 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 
The Commissioner's authority for the adoption of this permanent rule amendment is set forth in § 35-33-
206(3) and § 35-1-107(5(a), C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-13 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
9 
PURPOSE: 
The purpose of this permanent rule amendment is to amend Part 6.1 to change the expiration date for a 
license to operate a custom processing facility from June 30 to December 31. 
FACTUAL AND POLICY BASIS: 
The factual and policy issues pertaining to the adoption of this permanent rule amendment are as follows: 
1. 
This change is necessary to allow the Department to consolidate licensing functions to one time 
per year for all licenses issued by the ICS Division. 
2. 
The Department of Agriculture is moving its licensing functions from a paper based system to an 
online system. To accommodate licensee’s who hold multiple licenses with the Department of 
Agriculture, we are establishing a common licensing date so a licensee can obtain all their 
licenses in one transaction. 
10.3. 
Adopted November 9, 2016-Effective December 30, 2016 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 
The Commissioner's authority for the adoption of this permanent rule amendment is set forth in § 35-33-
104(1) § 35-33-201(11), and § 35-33-202, C.R.S. 
PURPOSE: 
The purpose of this permanent rule amendment is to: 
1. 
Add labeling and recordkeeping requirements for poultry processors and strike the word “custom” 
where applicable. 
2. 
Update formatting to be consistent with other Rules within the Department. 
FACTUAL AND POLICY BASIS: 
The factual and policy issues pertaining to the adoption of this permanent rule amendment are as follows: 
1. 
Senate bill 16-058 allows for poultry processers, licensed or exempt, to sell poultry to individuals 
so long as certain regulations regarding labeling and recordkeeping are followed. These 
regulations must be defined in rule by the Colorado Department of Agriculture. the poultry 
labeling requirements closely follow standard labeling requirements from the United States 
Department of Agriculture. Additional input from the Colorado Department of Public Health and 
Environment was incorporated to ensure requirements for poultry processers comport with state 
regulations for similar processing facilities. 
10.4. 
Adopted September 20, 2017 – Effective November 30, 2017 
Statutory Authority 
The Commissioner's authority for the adoption of this permanent rule amendment is set forth in § 35-33-
104 C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-13 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
10 
Purpose: 
The purpose of this permanent rule amendment is to create a new Part 9 “Disposal of Inedible Waste” to 
establish requirements for disposal of inedible waste from wild game processing through retail and 
wholesale sales; and move Parts 2.6 and 5.6 that deal with the disposal of inedible waste generated by 
processing meat animals to Part 9. 
Factual and Policy Basis: 
1. 
The Department of Agriculture conducted a regulatory review of the Rules Pertaining to the 
Administration and Enforcement of the Custom Processing of Meat Animals Act - 8 CCR 1202-
13. This regulatory review resulted in the recommendation that certain existing rules related to the 
disposal of inedible waste generated through the processing of meat animals be deleted and 
incorporated into a new comprehensive rule. 
2. 
The industry representatives in our stakeholder review requested a change of existing policy 
regarding the disposal of large wild game inedible waste – specifically the disposal of hides, 
antlers, and bones from wild game and the possibility to allow for resale of these products by the 
processor. Part 9 – Disposal of Inedible Waste allows licensed large wild game processors to sell 
the hides, antlers, and bones from wild deer and elk they process to a third party when certain 
conditions are met. 
10.5. 
Adopted April 10, 2019 – Effective May 30, 2019 
Statutory Authority 
The Commissioner’s authority for the adoption of these permanent rule amendments is set forth 
in §35-33-104(1), C.R.S. 
Purpose 
The purpose of these permanent rule amendments is to create two separate rules, one for the 
processing and sale of poultry and one for the processing of large animals. Previously, the record 
keeping and labeling rules applicable to the processing and sale of poultry were combined in the 
rules applicable to the processing of large animals. Separating the poultry rules from the large 
animal rules provides a clear distinction between two types of processing and will eliminate 
confusion regarding which rules are applicable for the two different types of processing. 
These permanent rule amendments: 
1. 
Remove the rules applicable to the processing and sale of poultry because those rules 
have already been codified in 8 CCR 1202-16 and are no longer necessary. 
Factual and Policy Issues 
The factual and policy issues pertaining to the adoption of these permanent rule amendments are 
as follows: 
The amendments create two separate rule, one for the sale and processing of poultry and one for 
the processing of large animals. These separate rules account for the differences in processing 
procedures between poultry and large animals.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-13 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
 
11 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 08/30/2009; for history and versions prior to 8/30/2009, see 8 CCR 1201-14. 
Rules 6.1, 10.2 eff. 01/01/2014. 
Entire rule eff. 12/30/2016. 
Parts 2, 5, 9, 10.4 eff. 11/30/2017. 
Rules 5.5.1, 5.6, Parts 7-9, 10.5 eff. 05/30/2019.
