---
id: "8_CCR_1202-4"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1202-4"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=10281&fileName=8%20CCR%201202-4&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1202-4. 8 CCR 1202-4

1 
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
FERTILIZERS AND SOIL CONDITIONERS 
8 CCR 1202-4 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Part 1. LEGAL AUTHORITY 
1.1 
Title 35, Article 12, Colorado Revised Statutes. 
Part 2. DEFINITIONS 
2.1 
The Official Publication of the Association of American Plant Food Control Officials, Inc. shall 
mean the 2022 Official Publication of the Association of American Plant Food Control Officials, 
Inc. (“AAPFCO”), effective January 1, 2022. This Rule incorporates by reference the AAPFCO 
standards and guidelines. The Rule does not adopt any later amendments to, or editions of, the 
AAPFCO standards and guidelines. A copy of the Official Publication of the Association of 
American Plant Food Control Officials, Inc. shall be kept In the Department of Agriculture, located 
at 305 Interlocken Parkway, Broomfield Colorado 80021, and shall be open to public inspection, 
and available for copying, during normal business hours. A copy of the official publication shall 
also be available online at: http://www.aapfco.org/. This, and any other material that is 
incorporated by reference, may be examined at any state publications depository library. 
2.2 
These Rules incorporate the official terms and official fertilizer definitions as published in the 2022 
Official Publication of the Association of American Plant Food Control Officials, Inc. (AAPFCO), , 
except as the Commissioner of Agriculture (“Commissioner”) designates otherwise in specific 
cases. 
2.3 
“Soil conditioner” means a substance or a mixture of substances intended to improve the 
chemical, physical, biochemical, or biological characteristics of the soil for the purpose of growing 
plants. “Soil conditioner” is synonymous with “soil amendment.” It does not include commercial 
fertilizers, plant amendments, untreated manures, compost and treated manures that are 
distributed without soil conditioner labeling claims. 
2.4 
“Potting Soil” and “Planting Mix” means a material suitable for holding and growing plants in 
containers. It may include small amounts of fertilizer or pesticide. 
2.5 
“Beneficial Substances or Compounds” means any substance or compound, other than primary, 
secondary and micro plant nutrients, that can be demonstrated by peer reviewed scientific 
research to be beneficial to one or more species or plants, when applied exogenously. 
2.6 
“Ingredient Statement” means a collective and contiguous listing of the ingredients of which a soil 
conditioner or plant amendment is composed listed in descending order by their predominance by 
volume or weight as appropriate in non-quantitative terms. 
 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-4 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
2 
Part 3. REGISTRATION 
3.1 
Each commercial fertilizer, soil conditioner, or plant amendment product must be registered by 
the person whose name appears on the label before being distributed in this state. All 
registrations will expire annually on January 31. Applications for renewal of registrations must be 
submitted each year on or before that date. 
3.2 
Each manufacturing facility that produces commercial fertilizer custom mixes in this state must be 
registered as required in Section 35-12-104 (7), C.R.S. All registrations will expire annually on 
January 31. Applications for renewal of registrations must be submitted each year on or before 
such date. 
3.3 
Each manufacturing facility that produces compost in this state must be registered as required in 
Section 35-12-104(8) (a), C.R.S. All registrations will expire annually on January 31. Applications 
for renewal of registrations must be submitted each year on or before such date. 
3.4 
Each manufacturing facility in this state that produces compost must register with the 
Commissioner except that: 
3.4.1 
Producers of less than ten (10) tons of compost per calendar year will not be required to 
register; 
3.4.2 
Any facilities regulated under Section 14 of Part 1 of the Colorado Department of Public 
Health and Environment Regulations Pertaining to Solid Waste Sites and Facilities, 6 
CCR 1007-2, will not be required to register. 
3.5 
Products whose primary purpose is as potting soil or a planting mix, that may also guarantee 
fertilizer, are exempt from registration when the sum of all fertilizer guarantees is below 3%. 
Part 4. DISTRIBUTION FEES - REPORTS 
4.1 
Each registrant must file an affidavit annually with the Commissioner within forty-five (45) days 
after January 1 each year that discloses the pounds or tonnage of commercial fertilizer, soil 
conditioner, or plant amendment sold or distributed in the state during the preceding twelve (12) 
month period. 
4.1.1 
In addition, each registrant must report the composition of fertilizer and the county in 
which fertilizer was distributed by the registrant. 
4.2 
Such affidavit will be accurately reported and submitted on the form (electronic or otherwise) that 
is furnished by the Commissioner. 
Part 5. LABEL REQUIREMENTS 
5.1 
Fertilizer labels 
The following information must be displayed on the product label in a readable and conspicuous 
form: 
5.1.1 
Product name 
5.1.2 
Grade

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-4 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
3 
5.1.3 
Guaranteed Analysis in the following format and order: 
Guaranteed Analysis 
Total Nitrogen (N) _____% 
_____% Ammoniacal Nitrogen** 
_____% Nitrate Nitrogen** 
_____% Water Insoluble Nitrogen* 
_____% Urea Nitrogen** 
_____% (other recognized and determinable forms of Nitrogen)** 
5.1.4 
Available Phosphate (P2O5) _____% 
5.1.5 
Soluble Potash (K2O) _____% 
5.1.6 
(Other nutrients, elemental basis)_____%*** 
5.1.7 
Directions for use sufficient to ensure the safe and effective use of the product that, at a 
minimum, specify: 
5.1.7.1 The recommended application method(s) and rate(s) 
5.1.7.2 Any warning or caution statements necessary to avoid harm to the target 
plant(s), or other plants or animals 
5.1.8 
Net weight or mass, net volume of liquid or dry material, or count. 
5.1.9 
The date of manufacture, processing, packaging or repackaging or a code that permits 
the determination of the date; or if bulk, the shipment or delivery date. 
5.1.10 The name and address of the registrant. 
*If claimed or the statement “organic” or “slow acting nitrogen” or similar terms are used on the label 
**If claimed. 
***As prescribed by Rule 5.2 
5.2 
Plant Nutrients in addition to Nitrogen, Phosphorous, and Potassium 
5.2.1 
Other plant nutrients, when mentioned in any form or manner, must be guaranteed only 
on an available elemental basis. Sources of the elements guaranteed and proof of 
availability must be provided to the Commissioner upon request. Except guarantees for 
those water soluble nutrients labeled for ready to use foliar fertilizers, ready to use 
specialty liquid fertilizers, hydroponic or continuous liquid feed programs and guarantees 
for potting soils, the minimum percentages that will be accepted for registration are as 
follows:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-4 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
4 
 
Element 
Minimum % 
Calcium (Ca) 
1.00 
Magnesium (Mg) 
0.50 
Sulfur (S) 
1.00 
Boron (B) 
0.02 
Chlorine (Cl) 
0.10 
Cobalt (co) 
0.0005 
Copper (Cu) 
0.05 
Iron (Fe) 
0.10 
Manganese (Mn) 
0.05 
Molybdenum (Mo) 
0.0005 
Nickel (Ni) 
0.0010 
Sodium (Na) 
0.10 
Zinc (Zn) 
0.05 
Any of the above-listed elements which are guaranteed must appear in the order listed, 
immediately following guarantees for the primary nutrients, nitrogen, phosphorous and potassium. 
5.2.2 
Guarantees or claims for the above-listed plant nutrients are the only ones which will be 
accepted except that fertilizer guarantees may include other nutrients, recognized by 
AAPFCO. Proposed labels and directions for use of the fertilizer must be furnished with 
the application for registration upon request. 
5.3 
Slowly Released Plant Nutrients 
5.3.1 
No fertilizer label shall bear a statement that connotes or implies that certain plant 
nutrients contained in a fertilizer are released slowly over a period of time, unless the 
slow release components are identified and guaranteed at a level of at least 15% of the 
total guarantee for that nutrient(s). 
5.3.2 
Types of products recognized by the Commissioner to have slow release properties 
include, but are not limited to, (1) water insoluble products, such as natural organics, urea 
form materials, urea-formaldehyde products, isobutylidene diurea, and oxamide; (2) 
coated slow release products, such as sulfur coated urea and other encapsulated soluble 
fertilizers; (3) occluded slow release products in which fertilizers or fertilizer materials are 
mixed with waxes, resins, or other inert materials and formed into particles; and (4) 
products containing water soluble nitrogen such as ureaform materials, urea-
formaldehyde products, methylenediurea (MDU), dimethylenetriurea (DMTU), and 
dicyanodiamide (DCD). 
5.3.3 
The term, “water insoluble”, “coated slow release”, “slow release”, “controlled release”, 
“slowly available water soluble” and “occluded slow release” are accepted as descriptive 
of these products, provided the manufacturer can demonstrate a testing program to 
substantiate the claim that is acceptable to the Commissioner. 
5.3.4 
A laboratory procedure, acceptable to the Commissioner for evaluating the release 
characteristics of the product(s) must be provided by the manufacturer if requested by the 
Commissioner. 
5.4 
Soil Conditioner and Plant Amendment Labels 
The following information must be displayed on the product label in a readable and conspicuous 
form:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-4 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
5 
5.4.1 
Net Weight or mass, net volume of liquid or dry material, or count. 
5.4.2 
Product Name. 
5.4.3 
Ingredient Statement including the name of each ingredient identified by the name 
published in the 2022 Official Publication of the Association of American Plant Food 
Control Officials, Inc., incorporated herein by reference as above in Rule 2.1 (later 
amendments not included). If no AAPFCO name exists, the common or usual name shall 
be used. 
5.4.4 
Purpose of product. 
5.4.5 
Directions for use sufficient to ensure the safe and effective use of the product that, at a 
minimum, specify: 
5.4.5.1 The recommended application method(s) and rate(s). 
5.4.5.2 Any warning or caution statements necessary to avoid harm to the target plants 
(if applicable), or other plants or animals. 
5.4.6 
Name and address of the registrant. 
5.4.7 
The date of manufacture, processing, packaging or repackaging or a code that permits 
the determination of the date; or if bulk, the shipment or delivery date. 
5.5 
Compost Labels 
5.5.1 
The following information shall be displayed on the product label in a readable and 
conspicuous form: 
5.5.1.1 Product name. 
5.5.1.2 Directions for use sufficient to ensure the safe and effective use of the product 
that at minimum specify: 
5.5.1.2.1 
The recommended application method(s) and rate(s); and 
5.5.1.2.2 
Any warning or caution statements necessary to avoid harm to 
the target plants (if applicable), or other plants or animals. 
5.5.1.3 Name and address of the manufacturer or distributor. 
5.5.1.4 Net weight or volume. 
5.5.2 
Compost distributed in bulk must be accompanied by a printed or written statement 
showing the ph level & soluble salt level in addition to the information required above. 
5.5.3 
Any product labeled as compost must meet the following minimum standards: 
5.5.3.1 The product must contain carbon and nitrogen in a ratio of less than or equal to 
18, as determined by the method specified in Rule 6.2.5.5.3.2 
The product 
must have a SOLVITA Ammonia Test result of greater than or equal to 4, as 
determined by the method specified in Rule 6.2.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-4 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
6 
5.5.3.3 The product must have a SOLVITA Carbon Dioxide test result of greater than or 
equal to 5, as determined by the method specified in Rule 6.2. 
5.6 
Beneficial Substances or compounds 
5.6.1 
When claimed or advertised, beneficial substances or compounds must be guaranteed 
on the product label under the heading ‘Contains Beneficial Substances’ or ‘Contains 
Beneficial Compounds’, or ‘Contains non-plant food ingredients’. 
5.6.2 
The amount of the beneficial substance or compound shall be guaranteed by the weight 
of the substance or compound as a percentage of the net weight of the product. 
5.7 
Microbes 
5.7.1. 
When claimed or advertised, a product which contains the presence of microbes must 
guarantee the microbes as a minimum number of each claimed viable organism at the 
genus and species level in colony forming units (CFU), spores, or propagules per gram or 
milliliter, and must have an expiration date and must have storage and handling 
instructions. 
5.8 
Any products coming under the fertilizer law must not carry labels to emphasize that dilutions will 
make so many gallons of fertilizer. Specific claims, such as “contents of this package will make 
___ gallons of fertilizer” are prohibited. 
Part 6 Analytical and Sampling Methods 
6.1 
The methods of sampling for fertilizers, soil conditioners and plant amendments shall be those set 
forth in the 20th Edition of the Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Analytical 
Communities (AOAC) International, or such other methods adopted by the Commissioner from 
authoritative sources that the Commissioner deems reliable including but not limited to Colorado 
State University. This Rule incorporates by reference the AOAC methods of analysis, 20th 
edition. This Rule does not adopt any later amendments to, or editions of, the AOAC methods of 
analysis. A copy of the 20th edition of the AOAC shall be kept on file at the Department of 
Agriculture, located at 305 Interlocken Parkway, Broomfield Colorado 80021, and shall be open to 
public inspection, and available for copying, during normal business hours. A copy of the official 
publication shall also be kept at AOAC International, located at 2275 Research Blvd., suite 300, 
Rockville Maryland 20850 and is available online at: AOAC.org. This, and any other material that 
is incorporated by reference, may be examined at any state publications depository library. 
6.2 
The methods for sampling and analysis of compost shall be those specified in Test Methods for 
the Examination of Composting and Compost, U. S. Composting Council Research and 
Education Foundation (CCREF), and United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) (TMECC, 
2002) or such other methods adopted by the Commissioner from authoritative sources that the 
Commissioner deems reliable, including but not limited to Colorado State University. The Test 
Methods for the Examination of Composting and Compost, U.S. Composting Council Research 
and Education Foundation (CCREF), and United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) 
(TMECC, 2002) is herein incorporated by reference. It does not include later amendments or 
editions of the publication. A copy of the 2002 edition of the TMECC shall be kept on file at the 
Department of Agriculture, located at 305 Interlocken Parkway, Broomfield Colorado 80021, and 
shall be open to public inspection, and available for copying, during normal business hours. A 
copy of the official publication shall also be kept with the U.S. Composting Council, located at 
1053 East Whitaker Mill Road, Suite 115, Raleigh North Carolina 27604, and is available online 
at: compostingcouncil.org. This, and any other material that is incorporated by reference, may be 
examined at any state publications depository library.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-4 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
7 
6.3 
Investigational Allowances 
6.3.1 
A commercial fertilizer shall be deemed deficient if the analysis of any nutrient is below 
the guarantee percent by an amount exceeding the applicable value specified in the 
following schedule, or if the index value of the fertilizer is below 98%: 
 
Guarantee 
percent 
Nitrogen 
percent 
Available 
Phosphate 
percent 
Soluble 
Potash 
percent 
4 or less 
0.49 
0.67 
0.41 
5 
0.51 
0.67 
0.43 
6 
0.52 
0.67 
0.47 
7 
0.54 
0.68 
0.53 
8 
0.55 
0.68 
0.60 
9 
0.57 
0.68 
0.65 
10 
0.58 
0.69 
0.70 
12 
0.61 
0.69 
0.79 
14 
0.63 
0.70 
0.87 
16 
0.67 
0.70 
0.94 
18 
0.70 
0.71 
1.01 
20 
0.73 
0.72 
1.08 
22 
0.75 
0.72 
1.15 
24 
0.78 
0.73 
1.21 
26 
0.81 
0.73 
1.27 
28 
0.83 
0.74 
1.33 
30 
0.86 
0.75 
1.39 
32 or more 
0.88 
0.76 
1.44 
For guarantees not listed, calculate the appropriate value by Interpolation.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-4 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
8 
6.3.2 
Other elements shall be deemed deficient if any element is below the guarantee by an amount 
exceeding the applicable value specified in the following schedule: 
 
ELEMENT 
GUARANTEE 
ALLOWABLE 
DEFICIENCY 
Calcium and Sulfur 
1% and up 
0.2 units + 5% of 
guarantee 
Magnesium 
0.5% and up 
0.2 units + 5% of 
guarantee 
Boron 
.02% to 5% 
.003 units + 15% of 
guarantee 
 
5.0% and up 
Potash Schedule 6.3 (a) 
Cobalt and Molybdenum 
.0005% to 1.0% 
.0001 units + 30% of 
guarantee 
 
1.0% to 4.0% 
.2 units + 10% of 
guarantee 
 
4.1% and up 
Potash Schedule 6.3 (a) 
Chlorine, Iron & Sodium 
0.1% to 4.0% 
.005 units + 10% of 
guarantee 
 
4.1% and up 
Potash Schedule 6.3 (a) 
Copper, Manganese, & Zinc 
.05% to 4.0% 
.005 units + 10% of 
guarantee 
 
4.1% and up 
Potash Schedule 6.3 (a) 
6.3.3 
The above tolerances listed in 6.3.1. and 6.3.2 are for single samples run in duplicate. 
Part 7.0  
ADULTERATION 
7.1 
Fertilizer 
7.1.1 
Any product distributed as a fertilizer that contains guaranteed amounts of phosphates 
and/or micronutrients shall be deemed adulterated if it contains one or more metals in 
amounts greater than the levels of metals established by the following table: 
Metals 
ppm per 1% P2O5 
ppm per 1% Micronutrients1 
1. Arsenic 
13 
112 
2. Cadmium 
10 
83 
3. Cobalt 
1362 
22282 
4. Lead 
61 
463 
5. Mercury 
1 
6 
6. Molybdenum 
42 
3002 
7. Nickel 
250 
1,900 
8. Selenium 
26 
180 
9. Zinc 
420 
2,9002 
1 Micro-nutrients include secondary and micro plant nutrients. Secondary plant nutrients are calcium, magnesium, and sulfur. Micro 
plant nutrients are boron, chlorine, cobalt, copper, iron, manganese, molybdenum, nickel, sodium, and zinc. 
2 Only applies when not guaranteed. 
7.1.2 
To use the above table: 
7.1.2.1 First:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-4 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
9 
7.1.2.1.1 
For fertilizers with a phosphate guarantee but no micro-nutrient 
guarantee, multiply the percent guaranteed P2O5 in the product by the 
values in the table to obtain the maximum allowable concentration of 
each metal. The minimum value for P2O5 utilized as a multiplier shall be 
6.0. 
7.1.2.1.2 
For fertilizers with one or more micro-nutrient guarantees but no 
phosphate guarantee, multiply the sum of the guaranteed percentages of 
all micro-nutrients in the product by the value in the appropriate column 
in the Table to obtain the maximum allowable concentration (ppm) of 
each metal. The minimum value for micro-nutrients utilized as a multiplier 
shall be 1. 
7.1.2.1.3 
For fertilizers with both a phosphate and a micro-nutrient 
guarantee, multiply the guaranteed percent P2O5 by the value in the 
appropriate column. The minimum value for P2O5 utilized as a multiplier 
shall be 6.0. 
7.1.2.2 Then multiply the sum of the guaranteed percentages of the micro-nutrients by 
the value in the appropriate column. The minimum value for micro-nutrients 
utilized as a multiplier shall be 1. 
7.1.2.3 Utilize the higher of the two resulting values as the maximum allowable 
concentration (ppm) of each metal. 
7.2 
Compost 
7.2.1 
Any product labeled and distributed as compost will be deemed adulterated if it contains 
one or more metals in amounts greater than the levels of metals established by the 
following table: 
 
Metals 
Maximum level mg/kg  
dry weight basis 
Arsenic 
41 
Cadmium 
39 
Copper 
1500 
Lead 
300 
Mercury 
17 
Nickel 
420 
Selenium 
100 
Zinc 
2800 
7.2.2 
Any product labeled and distributed as compost will be deemed adulterated if it contains 
a pathogen concentration greater than either of the following levels: 
7.2.2.1 Fecal coliform in an amount greater than 1000 most probable number per gram 
of total solids (dry weight basis); or 
7.2.2.2 Salmonella sp. bacteria in an amount greater than three (3) most probable 
number per four (4) grams of total solids (dry weight basis).

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-4 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
10 
Part 8. Reserved 
Part 9. STATEMENTS OF BASIS, SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE 
The Statements of Basis, Specific Statutory Authority and Purpose for rulemaking activity 
from 1971 to 1984 are no longer in the Department’s files. 
9.1 
October 9, 2008 – Effective November 30, 2008 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 
The Commissioner of Agriculture, Colorado Department of Agriculture, adopts these permanent rules 
pursuant to the provisions and requirements of the Colorado Commercial Fertilizer, Soil Conditioner and 
Plant Amendment Act, Section 35-12-114, C. R. S. 
PURPOSE: 
The purpose of these Rules is to comply with the requirements of the Colorado Commercial Fertilizer, Soil 
Conditioner and Plant Amendment Act to provide specific guidelines for the manufacture, labeling, and 
distribution of commercial fertilizers, soil conditioners, plant amendments, and compost. 
These rules: 
- 
Adopt the most current version of the official terms as published in the 2008 Official 
Publication of the Association of American Plant Food Control Officials (AAPFCO). 
- 
Establish registration dates for commercial fertilizer, soil conditioner, and plant 
amendment products. 
- 
Establish registration dates for fertilizer and compost manufacturers. 
- 
Establish the due date for distribution (tonnage) reports. 
- 
Establish minimum standards and labeling requirements for compost. 
- 
Establish directions for use requirements for fertilizer products. 
- 
Remove all references to agricultural liming materials. These references were originally 
incorporated into these Rules because they are included in the AAPFCO Model Rules 
and Regulations. Due to the alkaline nature of Colorado soils, lime is not used; therefore, 
regulations that pertain to these materials are not needed. 
- 
Establish the level of concentration of certain metals that would deem fertilizer to be 
adulterated. 
- 
Establish the level of concentration of certain metals and pathogens that would deem 
compost to be adulterated. 
- 
Update sampling and laboratory analysis methods for fertilizers and soil conditioners. 
- 
Establish the laboratory analysis method for iron sucrate. 
- 
Establish sampling and laboratory analysis methods for compost. 
- 
Update rules and remove outdated language.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-4 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
11 
FACTUAL AND POLICY ISSUES: 
The factual and policy issues encountered in the proposal of these permanent Rules are as follows: 
1. 
On August 6, 2008, The Colorado Commercial Fertilizer, Soil Conditioner, and Plant Amendment 
Act was amended by House Bill 08-1231. 
a. 
HB 08-1231 requires the Department to set minimum standards for compost produced by 
those facilities that are not regulated by Colorado Department of Public Health and 
Environment (CDPHE). 
b. 
The Department worked with compost industry stakeholders, CDPHE, and Colorado 
State University to develop compost minimum standards. 
2. 
These new, revised rules are based upon national standard (model) regulations developed by 
AAPFCO, an organization comprised of state fertilizer regulatory officials. These rules promote 
standardization of fertilizer industry regulation amongst the states. 
3. 
The Department met with fertilizer industry groups throughout the rule drafting process. The 
industry groups have indicated support for these Rules. 
9.2 
January 13, 2009 – Effective March 2, 2009 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 
The Commissioner of Agriculture, Colorado Department of Agriculture, adopts these permanent rules 
pursuant to the provisions and requirements of the Colorado Commercial Fertilizer, Soil Conditioner and 
Plant Amendment Act, 35-12-114, C.R.S. 
PURPOSE: 
The purpose of these rules is to add additional labeling requirements to fertilizer and soil conditioning 
labeling guidelines. 
FACTUAL AND POLICY ISSUES: 
The factual and policy issues encountered in the proposal of these permanent rules are as follows: 
1. 
Upon review of the recent amendments to these rules, filed with the Secretary of State on 
October 16, 2008, the Office of Legislative Legal Services (OLLS) requested additions to Rule 5.1 
to conform labeling requirements for fertilizer products with those in section 35-12-105(1), C.R.S. 
2. 
In addition to the changes requested by OLLS, the Department will add similar language to Rule 
5.4 to conform labeling requirements for soil conditioners and plant amendments to those in 
section 35-12-105(3), C.R.S. 
9.3 
November 13, 2012 – Effective December 30, 2012 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 
The Commissioner of Agriculture is authorized to adopt these permanent rules pursuant to section 35-12-
114, C.R.S., of the Colorado Commercial Fertilizer, Soil Conditioner and Plant Amendment Act.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-4 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
12 
PURPOSE: 
The specific purposes of these rule changes are as follows: 
1. 
Amend rule 2.1 to adopt the most current version of the official terms as published in the Official 
Publication of the Association of American Plant Food Control Officials (AAPFCO) and update the 
rule language to reflect the most current version of the statutory requirements for incorporating 
such information by reference. 
2. 
Add a new rule 2.2 to define “index value.” 
3. 
Add a new rule 2.3 to define “soil conditioner.” 
4. 
Amend rule 3.5 to remove restrictions on the use of iron sucrate as a source. 
5. 
Amend rule 5.2 (a) to change the requirements for minimum nutrient guarantees for specialty 
fertilizers. 
6. 
Amend rule 5.2 (b) to remove restrictions on testing requirements for minor nutrients and allow 
the use of iron oxide and similar sources. 
7. 
Amend rule 6.1 to separate sampling and analytical methods for clarity and update the rule 
language to reflect the most current version of the statutory requirements for incorporating such 
information by reference. 
8. 
Add a new rule 6.2 to: 
a. 
Provide more flexibility on fertilizer test methods and nutrient sources, and 
b. 
Require internet posting of all official test methods. 
9. 
Amend existing rule 6.2 to: 
A. 
Provide more flexibility on compost test methods, and 
B. 
Require internet posting of all official test methods. 
10. 
Delete existing rule 6.3(c) to remove the reference to section 35-14-110 C.R.S., which no longer 
exists. 
11. 
Amend rules 5.4(c), 6.3(a) and 6.3(b) for accuracy. 
FACTUAL AND POLICY ISSUES: 
The Department has been in contact with industry groups and interested parties throughout the rule 
drafting process. All have indicated support for the proposed changes. 
The factual and policy issues encountered in the proposal of these permanent rules are as follows: 
1. 
Rule 2.1 of the prior revision incorporated terms listed in the 2008 Official Publication of 
AAPFCO, which is updated annually. This revision updates the terms to the current 2012 
publication. AAPFCO is an organization comprised of state fertilizer regulatory officials that 
develops national models to promote standardization of fertilizer industry regulation amongst the 
states.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-4 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
13 
2. 
“Index value” is used in existing rule 6.3(a) to determine whether a fertilizer is deficient. It was not 
previously defined, except indirectly in 6.3 (c), which is being deleted. 
3. 
A definition of “soil conditioner” is required by section 35-12-103(29), C.R.S., of the Commercial 
Fertilizer, Soil Conditioner, and Plant Amendment Act. “Soil amendment” is a generally used, but 
less descriptive term synonymous with “soil conditioner.” 
4. 
A simplified regulatory approach towards fertilizer nutrient sources and analytical testing is 
adopted with these revisions. The use of iron sucrate is no longer restricted to specialty fertilizers. 
5. 
Removing the requirements for minimum nutrient guarantees for specialty fertilizers changes the 
rule to reflect the national models developed by AAPFCO. 
6. 
This revision simplifies the regulatory approach for minor nutrients. Regulation will now reflect 
AAPFCO national models. 
7. 
Amended rule 6.1 clarifies the regulatory approach for sampling. 
8. 
New rule 6.2 simplifies the regulatory approach towards fertilizer analytical testing and nutrient 
sources. 
a. 
Rule 6.1 of the prior revision required specific test methods for minor nutrients and 
nutrient sources such as iron oxide and resulted in restrictions on the use of such 
sources. This revision removes the restrictions and updates test and nutrient source 
requirements. 
b. 
Transparency in government is promoted with the requirement to post all current test 
methods on the internet. 
9. 
Amended rule 6.3 simplifies the regulatory approach towards compost sampling and analytical 
testing. 
a. 
This change allows the Department to respond more quickly to technological changes in 
analytical test methods. 
b. 
Transparency in government is promoted with the new requirement to post all test 
methods on the internet. 
10. 
Deleting previous revision rule 6.3(c): 
a. 
Removes a reference to section 35-12-110, C.R.S., which no longer exists. 
b. 
Allows for a clear definition of “Index value” which is used in rule 6.3(a) to determine 
whether a fertilizer is deficient. Index value was not previously defined, except indirectly 
in 6.3 (c), which is being deleted. 
11. 
Minor textual errors were identified which are addressed in this rule revision. 
9.4 
April 9, 2013 – Effective January 1, 2014 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 
The Commissioner's authority for the adoption of these permanent rule amendments is set forth in § 35-
12-104(1), § 35-12-104(7) and § 35-1-107(5)(a), C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-4 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
14 
PURPOSE: 
The purpose of these permanent rule amendments is to amend Part 3.1 to change the expiration date for 
a fertilizer registration and amend Part 3.2 to change the expiration date for a fertilizer manufacturing 
facility registration from June 30 to December 31. 
FACTUAL AND POLICY BASIS: 
The factual and policy issues pertaining to the adoption of these permanent rule amendments are as 
follows: 
1. 
This change is necessary to allow the Department to consolidate licensing functions to one time 
per year for all licenses issued by the ICS Division. 
2. 
The Department of Agriculture is moving its licensing functions from a paper based system to an 
online system. To accommodate licensee’s who hold multiple licenses with the Department of 
Agriculture, we are establishing a common licensing date so a licensee can obtain all their 
licenses in one transaction. 
9.5 
Adopted November 9, 2016- Effective December 30, 2016 
STATUTORY AUTHORITY: 
The Commissioner's authority for the adoption of these permanent rule amendments is set forth in § 35-
12-104(1), § 35-12-104(7) and § 35-12-106(4), C.R.S. 
PURPOSE: 
The purpose of these permanent rule amendments is to: 
1. 
Amend Part 4 to clarify the reporting requirements. 
2. 
Change the date in Parts 3.1, 3.2, and 3.3 to align the registration renewals with the tonnage 
reporting deadline. 
3. 
Update formatting to be consistent with other Rules within the Department. 
FACTUAL AND POLICY BASIS: 
The factual and policy issues pertaining to the adoption of these permanent rule amendments are as 
follows: 
1. 
The previous version of Part 4 was not specific to the types of data required to be reported on 
fertilizer distribution. 
2. 
Currently, fertilizer registrants have to log into the Department’s licensing system at separate 
times of the year to complete the registration and reporting process. This can be burdensome to 
registrants and be prone to mistakes. 
3. 
After consulting with industry stakeholders, the Department has proposed to synchronize all 
deadlines associated with the larger registration process to make the process more efficient for 
registrants.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-4 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
15 
9.6 
February 8, 2017 – Effective March 30, 2017 
Statutory Authority: 
The Commissioner's authority for the adoption of these permanent rule amendments is set forth in § 35-
12-104(1), § 35-12-104(7) and § 35-12-106(4), C.R.S. 
Purpose: 
The purpose of this rule-making is to incorporate the changes that were effective December 30, 2012 
which were inadvertently omitted when the rule was further amended through rules adopted November 9, 
2016 to be effective December 30, 2016. See Part 9.3 for the specific changes. 
9.7 
Adopted November 8, 2017 – Effective December 30, 2017 
Statutory Authority 
The Commissioner's authority for the adoption of these permanent Rule amendments is set forth in 
section 35-12-114, C.R.S. of the Colorado Commercial Fertilizer, Soil Conditioner, and Plant Amendment 
Act.  
Purpose 
The purpose of this rulemaking is to update terms, definitions and references to match the current version 
of the AAPFCO; update registration requirements; expand and update label language; and update 
references to the AOAC. 
Factual and Policy Issues 
The Department has been in contact with industry groups and interested parties throughout the rule 
drafting process. The factual and policy issues related to the adoption of these permanent Rule 
amendments are as follows: 
1. 
Rule 2.1 and 2.2 of the prior revision incorporated by reference the 2012 version of the Official 
Publication of the Association of the American Plant Food Control Officials (APPFCO) and did not 
include the rule language required by the most current version of the statutory requirements for 
incorporating such information by reference. 
2. 
“Potting Soil”; “Planting Mix”; “Beneficial Substances or Compounds”; and “Ingredient Statement” 
are official terms in the 2017 Official Publication of AAPFCO. 
3. 
Rule 3.5 exempts certain products from registration and allows products to be used in a timely 
manner. This Rule accounts for the constantly evolving advances in the fertilizer industry and 
APPFCO’s inability to publish recognition of ingredients fast enough to keep up with the 
advances. This Rule change is in agreement with stakeholder comments. 
4. 
Rule 5.1.7.1 removes the requirement that a label specify the type of plant for which a product is 
intended; this information is not a requirement in the AAPFCO model bill or regulations. The 
amended Rule 5.1.7.1 allows for either a recommended application method and rate or a 
statement referring the user to a qualified individual or a nutrient management plan. 
5. 
Rule 5.3.3 adds the terms “Coated Slow Release,” “Slow Release,” “Controlled Release,” and 
“Slowly Available Water Soluble,” which are terms consistent with the 2017 Official Publication of 
AAPFCO.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-4 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
16 
6. 
Rule 5.4.3 removes the requirement that percentages be included on a label. This information is 
proprietary and disclosure is not required on labels. This change is in agreement with stakeholder 
comments. 
7. 
Rules 5.4.6.1 and 5.5.1.2.1 are being deleted because they are no longer necessary. Including 
the intended types of plants or soils on a label is not a requirement in the AAPFCO model bill or 
regulations. 
8. 
Rule 5.5.1.5 is not necessary. Typical analysis of compost has been an optional label item and 
has not been considered a guarantee. The removal of this Rule is in agreement with stakeholder 
comments. 
9. 
The Rule 5.6 label requirements for “Beneficial Substances or Compounds” are consistent with 
the 2017 Official Publication of AAPFCO. 
10. 
The Rule 5.7 label requirements for “Microbes” are consistent with the 2017 Official Publication of 
AAPFCO. 
11. 
Rule 5.8 limits label claims related to dilutions. Products that have directions for dilutions prior to 
use should not have a claim that the dilution will make a certain amount of finished product to 
avoid misleading advertising and claims. This is consistent with the 2017 Official Publication of 
AAPFCO. 
12. 
Rule 6.1 adopts the most current version of the Official Methods of Analysis of The Association of 
Analytical Communities (AOAC), and updates the Rule language to reflect the most current 
version of the statutory requirements for incorporating such information by reference. 
13. 
Rule 6.4.4 is no longer necessary because the soil conditioner and plant amendment label 
requirement of disclosing the percentage of all active ingredients has been changed with 
amendment of Rule 5.4.3 and the deletion of Rule 5.4.4. 
9.8 
Adopted October 14, 2020 – Effective December 15, 2020 
Statutory Authority 
The commissioner’s authority for the adoption of these permanent rule amendments is set forth in section 
35-12-114, C.R.S. of the Colorado Commercial Fertilizer, Soil Conditioner, and Plant Amendment Act. 
Purpose 
The purpose of this rulemaking is to update the language required by §24-4-103(12.5), C.R.S., to properly 
incorporate the AAPFCO Official Publication, effective January 1, 2017, by reference. 
Factual and Policy Issues 
Section 24-4-103 (12.5), C.R.S., requires specific language to properly incorporate a publication by 
reference. This rulemaking ensures the rules meet those statutory requirements, and updates the current 
address for the Inspection and Consumer Services Division within the Department of Agriculture, which 
changed in October 2018.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1202-4 
Inspection and Consumer Services Division 
17 
9.9 
Adopted June 8, 2022 – Effective July 30, 2022 
Statutory Authority 
The Commissioner's authority for the adoption of this permanent Rule amendment is set forth in § 35-12-
114 C.R.S. of the Colorado Commercial Fertilizer, Soil Conditioner, and Plant Amendment Act. 
Purpose 
The Purpose of this rulemaking is to update the references to the current publication of the Association of 
American Plant Food Control Officials (AAPFCO), amend definitions to clarify and become consistent with 
the 2022 Official Publication, and to correct minor spelling errors. 
Factual and Policy Basis 
1. 
Numerous changes to the AAPFCO Official publication have occurred since the printing of the 
2017 version, which is referenced in the rules. The change to the 2022 version is reflected 
throughout the rule. Updating the rule to follow the 2022 AAPFCO Model regulations will make 
our rules more consistent with other states’ fertilizer, soil conditioner, and plant amendment rules. 
2. 
These amendments incorporate changes as a result of the department’s regulatory efficiency 
review process. 
3. 
Delete definition 2.3 “Index value” as obsolete as these values are not used to determine 
penalties and because Commercial Value regulations have been deleted by amendment in the 
Fertilizer and Soil Conditioners law 35-12-110. 
4. 
Amend definition 2.4 “Soil Conditioner” to be consistent with that definition in the AAPFCO Official 
Publication. 
5. 
Amend Rule 2.5 “Potting Soil” and “Planting Mix” to clarify these substances are intended for use 
in containers, and not in the landscape or gardens. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 11/30/2008. 
Parts 5, 9.2 eff. 03/02/2009. 
Entire rule eff. 12/30/2012. 
Rules 3.1-3.2, 9.3 eff. 01/01/2014. 
Parts 3-7, 9.4 eff. 12/30/2016. 
Part 2, rules 3.5, 5.2, 5.4.3, 6, 8, 9.3-9.6 eff. 03/30/2017. 
Entire rule eff. 12/30/2017. 
Parts 2, 6, 9.8 eff. 12/15/2020. 
Part 2, rules 5.4.3, 6.2, 6.3.2, 9.9 eff. 07/30/2022.
