---
id: "8_CCR_1505-9"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "8 CCR 1505-9"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=11771&fileName=8%20CCR%201505-9&type=pdf"
---

#### 8_CCR_1505-9. 8 CCR 1505-9

1 
DEPARTMENT OF STATE 
Secretary of State 
RULES FOR THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE COLORADO CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS ACT 
8 CCR 1505-9 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Rule 1. Definitions. 
As used in these rules and in the Colorado Charitable Solicitations Act: 
1.1 
“Accounting period” means the time period for keeping records and reporting income and 
expenses. 
1.2 
“Agent” means an individual who, by the principal’s written authority, transacts business or 
manages affairs for the principal, and provides an accounting to the principal. “Agent” includes 
“subcontractors.” 
1.3 
“Authorized officer” means the individual designated by the filing entity to electronically sign forms 
on behalf of the organization in accordance with the CCSA. This individual must be an officer of a 
nonprofit corporation, a trustee of a charitable trust, or a senior manager member of any other 
entity subject to the filing requirements of the CCSA. 
1.4 
“Bona fide personal emergency”: 
1.4.1 
Includes: 
(a) 
A medical emergency affecting a registrant or member of registrant’s immediate 
family, including incapacitation, hospitalization, accident, or death. 
(b) 
A practical emergency including extraordinary obstacles out of the registrant’s 
control that prevents timely disclosure such as the loss or unavailability of 
records or a computer due to fire, flood, or theft. 
1.4.2 
Excludes: 
(a) 
Failure to timely file documents due to failure to plan. 
(b) 
Accounting delays. 
(c) 
Misunderstanding of applicable disclosure requirements and deadlines. 
(d) 
Mistakes in electronic filing submission, including incomplete filings resulting in 
rejection of the document. 
(e) 
Lack of access to internet or computer. 
(f) 
Lack of corporate credit card or other means of making online payments. 
1.5 
“CCSA” means the Colorado Charitable Solicitations Act codified at Article 16 of Title 6, C.R.S. 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-9 
Secretary of State 
 
2 
1.6 
“Directly employed”, as used in section 6-16-103(7)(d), C.R.S., means the charitable organization 
controls or directs the means and methods of accomplishing the result of the individual’s work, 
regardless of whether the individual is employed full-time or part-time, is paid a salary or on 
commission, or is called an employee or an agent or independent contractor. 
1.7 
“EIN,” an employer identification number, means the Federal Tax Identification Number used to 
identify a business entity. 
1.8 
“E-mail address” in section 6-16-114(1)(b)(II), C.R.S., means the e-mail address provided by and 
belonging to an authorized officer during the creation of a registrant’s online account. 
1.9 
“Fiscal year” means annual accounting period. 
1.10 
“Form of the applicant’s business” means an entity listed in section 7-90-102, C.R.S., or similar 
business statutes in other states but excludes the organization’s purpose and tax-exempt status. 
1.11 
“Gross revenue” means all revenue received from any source during the organization’s 
accounting period, without subtracting costs or expenses. “Gross revenue” excludes receipt of 
funds by a pass-through agent that lacks the right to use or benefit from them. 
1.12 
“Name or names,” as used in section 6-16-104(2)(a), C.R.S., includes: 
1.12.1 “Doing business as,” “also known as,” or trade names; and 
1.12.2 The name of any donor-advised fund that solicits contributions from the public using its 
own name, unless, in all written and oral solicitations, the fund clearly identifies itself as a 
“donor-advised fund” of a specified charitable organization that is either registered with 
the Secretary of State or exempt under section 6-16-104(6)(a) through (d), C.R.S. 
1.13 
“Newly-Formed Charitable Organization” means an organization that has not reached the 15th 
day of the fifth month following the close of its first fiscal year. 
1.14 
“Person Responsible for Directing and Supervising the Conduct of the Campaign”, in accordance 
with section 6-16-104.6(7)(b), C.R.S., includes agents or subcontractors of the paid solicitor. 
1.15 
“Principal Place of Business” means the street address of the organization’s usual place of 
business. “Principal place of business”, as used in these rules, does not include a post office box 
or private mailbox. 
1.16 
“Registrant,” as used in these rules, refers collectively to charitable organizations, professional 
fundraising consultants, and paid solicitors subject to CCSA requirements. 
1.17 
“Short-period registration and financial statement” means a registration and financial statement 
covering a period of less than 12 months. 
1.18 
“State Elections Commission” includes, for purposes of section 6-16-104(6)(b), C.R.S., the 
Secretary of State’s Campaign and Political Finance Program. 
1.19 
“Subcontractor,” includes the agent but not employee of a paid solicitor who solicits on behalf of 
the paid solicitor for the benefit of a charitable organization that contracted with the paid solicitor. 
Rule 2. Electronic Filing 
2.1 
Registrants must file all documents electronically using the Secretary of State’s online system.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-9 
Secretary of State 
 
3 
2.2 
The Secretary of State will issue a unique user identification and password for use of the online 
system. To receive access, an individual must provide their name, valid email address and EIN. 
Registrants must update this information promptly if it changes. Filing with the user identification 
and password will constitute the filer's official signature, in accordance with section 24-71.3-
102(8), C.R.S. 
Rule 3. Expedited Hearing Deadlines 
3.1 
The Secretary of State will file an administrative complaint with a hearing officer. The hearing 
officer must set and give notice of an expedited hearing within seven days of receiving a request 
for hearing per section 6-16-111(6)(b), C.R.S. The hearing must be held within 49 days of service 
of the notice of hearing, unless parties stipulate otherwise. See 8 CCR 1505-3, Rule 3, for 
additional information regarding the administrative hearing process. 
3.2 
For good cause shown, the Secretary of State may continue a proceeding for up to 15 days. 
3.3 
The hearing officer will issue an initial decision, as governed by section 24-4-105(14), C.R.S., 
within 10 days of a hearing or within 10 days of the close of evidence, whichever is later. 
Rule 4. Registration 
4.1 
All registrants 
4.1.1 
If the Secretary of State approves an initial or renewal registration statement, the 
Secretary will issue a permanent registration number or update the registrant’s status and 
send confirmation to the registrant’s authorized officer via email. 
4.1.2 
A registrant that has not been denied, suspended, or revoked, withdrawn, or expired may 
obtain a registration certificate verifying that status. 
4.2 
Charitable organizations 
4.2.1 
If the charitable organization was not in existence for an entire accounting period, 
changes its accounting period, or merges out of existence or dissolves before the end of 
its accounting period, it must file a short-period registration and financial statement. 
4.2.2 
A charitable organization must use the same accounting period to file registration 
documents with the Secretary of State that it uses to maintain financial records internally 
and to file IRS Form 990 with the IRS. 
4.2.3 
The Secretary of State may require a charitable organization to provide a copy of the 
appropriate IRS Form 990 to meet Colorado’s reporting requirements. 
4.2.4 
If the Secretary of State identifies inconsistencies, between a charitable organization’s 
registration statement and the IRS Form 990, the Secretary of State may require the 
organization to file an amended IRS Form 990 with the Secretary of State, or otherwise 
correct the inconsistency to complete the state filing. Failure to correct the inconsistency 
may result in denial or suspension of registration in accordance with section 6-16-111(6), 
C.R.S. 
4.3 
Paid Solicitors 
4.3.1 
In accordance with section 6-16-104.6(4), C.R.S., a paid solicitor may register and pay a 
single fee on behalf of its agents (including subcontractors) listed on the paid solicitor’s 
registration.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-9 
Secretary of State 
 
4 
4.3.2 
For a specific solicitation campaign, an agent or subcontractor not directly under contract 
to the registered paid solicitor must file its own registration. See Rule 10 for additional 
subcontractor requirements. 
Rule 5. Filing Deadlines and Extension of Filing Deadlines 
5.1 
Charitable organizations. 
(a) 
If a charitable organization, at the time of initial registration, reports financial 
information outside of the most recently completed fiscal year, the Secretary of 
State may approve the initial registration but the organization must file a renewal 
or extension request within five days from the initial registration approval. 
(b) 
If the organization fails to file a renewal or extension within the five day period, 
the organization’s registration will expire and the organization may be subject to 
fines. 
5.1.2 
Registration renewal and financial report. 
(a) 
If a charitable organization does not file a deadline extension with the IRS, the 
charitable organization must file its registration renewal and a financial report for 
the most recent fiscal year by the 15th day of the fifth calendar month after the 
close of each fiscal year in which the charitable organization solicited in 
Colorado. 
(b) 
If a charitable organization files a deadline extension with the IRS, the charitable 
organization must file its registration renewal and financial report by the 15th day 
of the eighth calendar month after the close of each fiscal year in which the 
charitable organization solicited in Colorado. 
5.1.3 
A charitable organization may renew its registration or replace initial estimates with actual 
financial information no earlier than the close of the accounting period to which the filing 
applies. 
5.2 
For a professional fundraising consultant or paid solicitor, the renewal period begins 60 days 
before the expiration date of the consultant’s or solicitor’s registration, which is either: 
5.2.1 
The day and month the initial registration was approved; or 
5.2.2 
The day and month the most recent reinstatement was approved. 
5.3 
Paid Solicitors 
5.3.1 
For reporting purposes, a solicitation campaign duration on a solicitation notice may not 
exceed one year. 
5.3.2 
Before the campaign end date listed on an initial solicitation notice, a paid solicitor may 
amend the initial solicitation notice to extend the campaign duration up to one year. After 
the campaign end date, the paid solicitor must file a new solicitation notice. 
5.3.3 
A paid solicitor must submit a solicitation campaign financial report on or before the 90th 
day following the campaign end date listed on a solicitation notice. A paid solicitor who 
does not submit a campaign report on or before the deadline may not begin a new 
solicitation campaign or file a new solicitation notice until the Secretary of State approves 
the overdue campaign report.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-9 
Secretary of State 
 
5 
5.4 
For any filing, including registration, that requires the name and address of a person with custody 
of a registrant’s records, the registrant must include: 
5.4.1 
The name of an individual; and 
5.4.2 
The individual’s principal place of business or, if the individual lacks a principal place of 
business, the individual’s residential street address. 
5.5 
If the deadline for filing a registrant’s document under the CCSA falls on a weekend or holiday, 
the deadline will still be on that day. 
5.6 
If a registration was filed on February 29, the renewal deadline is February 28 of the following 
year. 
Rule 6. Fines 
6.1 
Charitable organization 
6.1.1 
The fine for a charitable organization is $60 per overdue report, including an overdue 
update of estimated financial information. 
6.1.2 
The fine for a charitable organization that, after notification continues to solicit 
contributions before registering is $300. 
6.1.3 
In response to a Secretary of State inquiry, an exempt charitable organization must 
indicate that it is exempt from registration and cite the basis for its exemption. 
6.1.4 
An organization fined for soliciting while unregistered, must pay both the fine and the 
regular filing fee. 
6.1.5 
If a nonexempt charitable organization solicits contributions in Colorado before filing its 
initial registration or reinstating its registration, it must provide financial reports for the last 
three fiscal years or for the period of solicitation, whichever is shorter. 
6.2 
Paid solicitor 
6.2.1 
The fine for a paid solicitor is $200 per overdue renewal, solicitation notice, and 
campaign financial report. 
6.2.2 
The fine for a paid solicitor that, after notification, continues to solicit contributions before 
registering is $1,000. 
6.3 
Professional fundraising consultant 
6.3.1 
The fine for a professional fundraising consultant is $200 per overdue renewal. 
6.3.2 
The fine for a professional fundraising consultant that is required to register and, after 
notification, continues to provide consulting services before registering is $1,000. 
6.4 
Waiver of fine 
6.4.1 
A registrant may ask the Secretary of State to reduce or excuse an imposed fine by 
submitting a written request by letter, email, fax.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-9 
Secretary of State 
 
6 
6.4.2 
The Secretary must receive the request within thirty days of the mailing date of the fine 
notice. 
6.4.3 
The request must include: 
(a) 
The name of the charitable organization, professional fundraising consultant, or 
paid solicitor; 
(b) 
The request date; 
(c) 
The due date of the delinquently filed registration document(s); 
(d) 
The actual filing date of the delinquently filed registration document(s); 
(e) 
Measures that the charitable organization, professional fundraising consultant, or 
paid solicitor instituted or plan to institute to avoid future delinquencies, if 
applicable; 
(f) 
A detailed explanation of the reason, circumstance, or other justification such as: 
(1) 
A bona fide emergency as defined in Rule 1.4; 
(2) 
A timely filing was not possible due to website or emergency errors; or 
(3) 
The organization was not required to register during the time period of 
fine assessment. 
(g) 
The basis for claiming an exemption, if applicable; and 
(h) 
Any other relevant information. 
6.4.4 
The Secretary of State may also consider the frequency of requests to excuse or reduce 
fines within a three-year period and any past CCSA violations. 
6.4.5 
If the Secretary of State does not receive payment by the 60th day following the date of 
the fine notice, the Secretary of State will forward the penalty to the State’s Central 
Collection Agency. 
Rule 7. Suspensions and Revocations 
7.1 
A registrant may not solicit contributions, provide consulting services in connection with a 
solicitation campaign, file a solicitation notice, or conduct a solicitation campaign in Colorado 
while suspended or revoked. 
7.2 
If the Secretary of State does not receive an overdue solicitation campaign financial report, or a 
request for a hearing from a registrant by the 63rd day after the deadline or a deadline extension 
granted by Secretary of State, the Secretary of State will suspend the paid solicitor’s registration. 
Rule 8. Withdrawing and Reinstating a Registration 
8.1 
Withdrawal 
8.1.1 
A registrant may request to withdraw its registration by notifying the Secretary of State.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-9 
Secretary of State 
 
7 
8.1.2 
A newly-formed charitable organization may withdraw its registration unconditionally if it 
determines that it registered by mistake. 
8.1.3 
The Secretary of State will not approve a withdrawal request unless and until: 
(a) 
A registrant pays any and all outstanding fines or obtains a waiver under Rule 
6.4; 
(b) 
A charitable organization files its final financial report for the most recent fiscal 
year that it was subject to the CCSA. 
(c) 
A paid solicitor files a solicitation campaign financial report for every solicitation 
campaign for which the paid solicitor filed a solicitation notice and a solicitation 
notice for every solicitation campaign conducted in Colorado. 
8.1.4 
If an organization is terminating, it may file a short-period financial statement covering the 
final fiscal year up to the date of dissolution or termination. 
8.2 
Reinstatement 
8.2.1 
Charitable organization 
(a) 
If a charity was exempt from registering for each fiscal year since its registration 
ended, it must complete the following requirements to reinstate its registration: 
(1) 
File a reinstatement form; 
(2) 
File a financial form for the most recent fiscal year; and 
(3) 
With respect to each fiscal year since the charity’s registration expired or 
was withdrawn, certify that the charity was exempt from registration 
requirements under the CCSA. 
(b) 
An expired or withdrawn charity that was not exempt from registration 
requirements for each fiscal year since its registration ended must complete the 
following requirements to reinstate its registration: 
(1) 
File a reinstatement form; 
(2) 
File a financial form for the most recent fiscal year; 
(3) 
File a financial form for each fiscal year the charity should have been 
registered under the CCSA, up to a maximum of the past three 
consecutive fiscal years; and 
(4) 
Pay all applicable fees and fines. 
8.2.2 
Paid solicitor 
(a) 
If a paid solicitor was exempt from registering for each fiscal year since its 
registration ended, it must complete the following requirements to reinstate its 
registration: 
(1) 
File a reinstatement form; and

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-9 
Secretary of State 
 
8 
(2) 
With respect to each year since the paid solicitor’s registration expired or 
was withdrawn, certify that it was exempt from registration requirements 
under the CCSA. 
(b) 
If a paid solicitor was not exempt from registration requirements for each year 
since its registration ended, it must complete the following requirements to 
reinstate its registration: 
(1) 
File a reinstatement form; 
(2) 
File solicitation notices and campaign reports for solicitation campaigns 
conducted in Colorado while its registration was expired, withdrawn, or 
suspended; and 
(3) 
Pay all applicable fees and fines. 
8.2.3 
Professional fundraising consultant 
(a) 
If a professional fundraising consultant was exempt from registering for each 
year since its registration ended, it must complete the following requirements to 
reinstate its registration: 
(1) 
File a reinstatement form; and 
(2) 
With respect to each year since the professional fundraising consultant’s 
registration expired or was withdrawn, certify that it was exempt from 
registration requirements under the CCSA. 
(b) 
If a professional fundraising consultant was not exempt from registration 
requirements for each since its registration ended, it must complete the following 
requirements to reinstate its registration: 
(1) 
File a reinstatement form; and 
(2) 
Pay all applicable fees and fines. 
8.2.4 
All suspended or denied registrants must cure all deficiencies, pay all applicable fines, 
and satisfy any other obligations that may be required. 
Rule 9. Application of Registration Requirements to Internet Solicitation 
9.1 
As used in this Rule 9: 
9.1.1 
“Interactive website” means a website that permits a contributor to make a contribution or 
purchase a product in connection with a charitable solicitation electronically, such as by 
submitting credit card information or by authorizing an electronic funds transfer. 
Interactive websites include sites through which a donor may complete a financial 
transaction online even if completion requires the use of linked or redirected sites. Such a 
website is interactive regardless of whether donors actually use it. 
9.1.2 
“Receives contributions from Colorado on a repeated and ongoing or substantial basis” 
means receiving contributions within the entity’s fiscal year that are sufficient to establish 
the regular or significant (as opposed to rare, isolated, or insubstantial) nature of those 
contributions.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-9 
Secretary of State 
 
9 
(a) 
An entity receives contributions on a repeated and ongoing basis if it receives at 
least 50 online contributions during a fiscal year. 
(b) 
An entity receives substantial contributions if it receives the lesser of $25,000 or 
1% of its total contributions in online contributions during a fiscal year. 
9.1.3 
“Specifically targets persons physically located in Colorado for solicitation” means: 
(a) 
To include on a website a reference to soliciting contributions from Colorado; or 
(b) 
To otherwise appeal to residents of Colorado, such as by advertising or sending 
messages to persons located in Colorado (electronically or otherwise) when the 
entity knows or reasonably should know the recipient is physically located in 
Colorado. Charities operating on a purely local basis, or within a limited 
geographic area, do not target states outside their operating area, if their web 
site makes clear in context that their fundraising focus is limited to that area even 
if they receive contributions from outside that area on less than a repeated and 
ongoing basis or on a substantial basis. 
9.2 
An entity that solicits Colorado residents via e-mail will be treated the same as one that solicits 
Colorado residents via telephone or direct mail. 
9.3 
An entity with a principal place of business in Colorado that uses the internet to conduct 
charitable solicitations in Colorado must register with the Secretary of State, unless it is exempt 
from the registration requirements per section 6-16-104(6), C.R.S., regardless of whether the 
solicitation methods are passive or interactive and regardless of whether the internet solicitation 
methods are maintained by itself or another entity with which it contracts, or whether it conducts 
solicitations in any other manner. 
9.4 
An entity with a principal place of business outside of Colorado must register with the Secretary of 
State, unless it is exempt per section 6-16-104(6), C.R.S., if: 
9.4.1 
Its non-internet activities are sufficient to require registration in Colorado, or 
9.4.2 
The entity solicits contributions through an interactive website and the entity either: 
(a) 
Specifically targets persons physically located in Colorado for solicitation, or 
(b) 
Receives contributions from Colorado on a repeated and ongoing basis or a 
substantial basis through its website; or 
9.4.3 
The entity solicits contributions through a non-interactive site, but either specifically 
invites further offline activity to complete a contribution, or establishes other contacts with 
Colorado, such as sending e-mail messages or other communications that promote the 
website; and 
(a) 
Specifically targets persons physically located in Colorado for solicitation, or 
(b) 
Receives contributions from Colorado on a repeated and ongoing basis or a 
substantial basis through its website.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-9 
Secretary of State 
 
10 
9.5 
Solicitations for the sale of a product or service that include a representation that some portion of 
the price is devoted to a charitable organization or charitable purpose (also called “cause 
marketing” or “commercial coventuring,” as defined in section 6-16-103(3), C.R.S., as a 
“charitable sales promotion”) are governed by the same standards outlined in this Rule 9 and in 
accordance with section 6-16-104(1), C.R.S. 
9.6 
Nothing in this Rule 9 is intended to limit or expand upon the exception to the definition of a “paid 
solicitor” listed in section 6-16-103(7)(f), C.R.S., which states that a person whose only 
responsibility in connection with a charitable contribution is to provide a merchant account to 
process credit card payments using the internet is not considered a paid solicitor. 
Rule 10. 
Subcontractors to Paid Solicitors 
10.1 
Filing Requirements 
10.1.1 The Secretary of State will treat the subcontractor operating under a contract with a 
registered paid solicitor to solicit charitable contributions as an agent of that paid solicitor 
and the subcontractor is not required to register. The paid solicitor must file all solicitation 
notices and campaign reports and ensure that the subcontractor provides written 
confirmation of contribution statements and makes all the required oral disclosures that 
apply to paid solicitors in sections 6-16-105 and 6-16-105.3, C.R.S., respectively. 
10.1.2 A subcontractor who makes an oral solicitation regarding a charitable contribution to a 
person by a telephone call received in Colorado must state their own first and last name 
and that they are calling on behalf of the registered paid solicitor. 
10.1.3 An agent (but not an employee) of a subcontractor operating under a contract with that 
subcontractor to solicit contributions must register separately. 
10.2 
Authorization to Solicit 
10.2.1 A subcontractor must operate under a written contract with a registered paid solicitor and 
the contract must be provided to the Secretary of State upon request in accordance with 
section 6-16-104.6(2), C.R.S. 
10.2.2 A subcontractor must keep records in accordance with section 6-16-109, C.R.S., and 
must furnish the originals or copies to the paid solicitor and, upon request, to the 
Secretary of State.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
8 CCR 1505-9 
Secretary of State 
 
11 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 08/01/2009. 
Entire rule eff. 12/30/2012. 
Rules 1.2, 1.17-1.18, 3, 5.2, 5.2.1-5.2.2, 5.4, 5.4.1, 5.5-5.7, 5.9, 6.1, 6.1.1-6.1.2, 8.2, 9.2.2, 9.3, 9.3.1-
9.3.2 eff. 12/17/2015. Rules 1.19, 6.1.3-6.1.4 repealed eff. 12/17/2015. 
Entire rule emer. rule eff. 10/01/2018. 
Entire rule eff. 11/14/2018. 
Rule 5.7 emer. rule eff. 04/02/2020. 
Rule 5.7 emer. rule eff. 07/15/2020; expired 11/12/2020. 
Rules 3.1, 3.3 eff. 01/01/2025. 
Annotations 
Rule 1.17 (adopted 11/09/2012) was not extended by House Bill 14-1123 and therefore expired 
05/15/2014.
