---
id: "9_CCR_2501-1"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "9 CCR 2501-1"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=3977&fileName=9%20CCR%202501-1&type=pdf"
---

#### 9_CCR_2501-1. 9 CCR 2501-1

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
1 
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES 
Human Services Administration 
RULE MANUAL VOLUME 1, GENERAL POLICIES AND ADMINISTRATION 
9 CCR 2501-1 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
STATEMENT OF BASIS AND PURPOSE AND SPECIFIC STATUTORY AUTHORITY OF REVISIONS 
MADE TO VOLUME 1 
Deletion of sections 1.300 - 1.306 were adopted final following publication at the 9/9/88 State Board 
meeting with an effective date of 11/1/88 (CSPR# 88-5-23-1). Statement of Basis and Purpose and 
specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the rule. These 
materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours at the Office of the State 
Board Liaison, Department of Social Services. 
Revision of sections 1.200 - 1.202.34 were adopted final following publication at the 9/7/90 State Board 
meeting with an effective date of 11/1/90 (CSPR# 90-3-6-1). Statement of Basis and Purpose and specific 
statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the rule. These materials are 
available for review by the public during normal working hours at the Office of the State Board Liaison, 
Department of Social Services. 
Revision of section 1.500 was adopted final following publication at the 5/6/94 Executive Director meeting 
with an effective date of 7/1/94 (CSPR# 93-11-17-1). Statement of Basis and Purpose and specific 
statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by reference into the rule. These materials are 
available for review by the public during normal working hours at the Office of the State Board Liaison, 
Department of Social Services. 
Deletion of sections 1.100 through 1.907 and subsequent forms (the entire manual) were final adoption 
following publication at the 7/12/96 State Board meeting with an effective date of 9/1/96 (CSPR# 96-5-6-
1). Statement of Basis and Purpose and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated 
by reference into the rule. These materials are available for review by the public during normal working 
hours at the Office of External Affairs, Department of Human Services. 
Creation of sections 1.100 through1.152 were final adoption following publication at the 7/9/2010 
Executive Director rule-making session, with an effective date of 9/1/2010 (Rule-making# 10-3-19-1). 
Statement of Basis and Purpose and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by 
reference into the rule. These materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours 
at the Colorado Department of Human Services, Division of Boards and Commissions, State Board 
Administration. 
Revision of sections 1.142, 1.151 and 1.152 were final adoption following publication at the 12/3/2010 
Executive Director rule-making session, with an effective date of 2/1/2011 (Rule-making# 10-9-24-1). 
Statement of Basis and Purpose and specific statutory authority for these revisions were incorporated by 
reference into the rule. These materials are available for review by the public during normal working hours 
at the Colorado Department of Human Services, Division of Boards and Commissions, State Board 
Administration. 
1.100  GENERAL POLICIES AND ADMINISTRATION 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
2 
1.110  STATE DEPARTMENT OVERSIGHT AND CORRECTIVE ACTION PROCESS 
Rule Volume 1 consists of Executive Director rules in its entirety. 
Colorado Department of Human Services has a statutory responsibility to provide supervision to the 
county departments. This responsibility includes ensuring that the county departments comply with 
requirements provided by Federal laws and regulations, State statutes, Executive Director and State 
Board of Human Services rules, and contract and grant terms. Because of the nature of Colorado’s 
structure being state supervised and county administered, it is critical that there is a communication 
protocol in place to address identified issues. CDHS promotes a collaborative and participatory model for 
engagement throughout the system to enhance accountability and transparency. 
A.  For issues identified through a multitude of processes that are brought to the attention of the state or 
counties for response, there is a continuum of actions by the State Department dependent upon 
the county’s response to the identified issue. The first and lowest level of action is informal and 
consultative in nature. 
B.  The second level of action is technical or regulatory. This level includes any routine monitoring, quality 
assurance reviews, and audits conducted by the Colorado Department of Human Services. In this 
secondary and/or routine monitoring, existing policies and procedures will continue. 
C.  The last or third level of action occurs when issues are severe in nature and/or lower level 
interventions have not been effective in correcting the problem or issue and shall include: 
1.  Program Intervention. 
2.  Corrective Action Processes as defined in Section 1.150. 
3.  Sanctions as defined in Section 1.152. In the event these rules conflict and cannot be 
harmonized with existing Colorado Department of Human Services rules, these rules 
shall control and the applicable program area shall initiate a rule-making to modify the 
program area-specific rule language that is in conflict, with exception of federal 
requirements as found in Section 1.151. 
D.  The Colorado Department of Human Services, Corrective Action Process Practice Handbook, is 
incorporated by reference to provide further guidance; no later editions or amendments are 
included. The material may be examined by contacting the Colorado Department of Human 
Services, Director of the Administrative Review Division, 4045 S. Lowell Blvd., Denver, Colorado; 
or at a state publications library. 
1.120  AUTHORITY 
Section 26-1-111(2)(d)(I), Colorado Revised Statutes, stipulates that the State Department shall: “Provide 
services to county governments including the organization and supervision of county departments for the 
effective administration of public assistance and welfare functions as set out in the rules of the Executive 
Director and the rules of the State Board pursuant to Section 26-1-107 as to program scope and content, 
including assistance payments, food stamps, and social services, and compilation of statistics and 
necessary information relative to assistance payments, food stamps, social services, child welfare 
services, including out-of-home placement services, rehabilitation, programs for the aging, and veterans' 
programs throughout the state, and obtaining federal reimbursement moneys available under the Title IV-
E program created under the federal "Social Security Act", as amended, based on out-of-home 
placements and alternative care treatment by county departments of children eligible for Title IV-E federal 
assistance, which moneys shall be allocated to counties to help defray the costs of performing its 
functions; except that nothing in this paragraph (d) shall be construed to allow counties to continue to

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
3 
receive an amount equal to the increased funding in the event the said funding is no longer available from 
the federal government.”  
1.130  STATE DEPARTMENT OBJECTIVES 
State Department objectives in implementing the Corrective Action Process are to: 
A.  Improve service delivery to clients; 
B.  Assure fiscal accountability; and, 
C.  Strengthen the management and supervision capabilities of the State Department. 
1.140  DEFINITIONS 
1.141  Program Definition 
The Corrective Action Process (CAP) is intended to create a process/procedure to assure county 
departments of human/social services bring issues of noncompliance into compliance within specified 
time frames. Identification of issues of noncompliance may occur through: 
A.  Routine monitoring by State staff; 
B.  Specially scheduled program or management reviews; 
C.  Observation; 
D.  Complaints or grievances. 
1.142  General Definitions [Rev. eff. 2/1/11] 
The following are definitions of commonly used terms in this manual: 
“Corrective action”  means a formal, systemic process employed to correct county department of 
human/social services’ noncompliance with State Department rules, Federal and State laws, contract 
terms and grant terms. 
“Corrective Action Plan”  (CAP) means a written plan to correct areas of noncompliance that clearly 
identifies areas needing improvement, action steps to be taken for each area, dates by which action steps 
are to be implemented, staff responsible for the “CAP” , indicators of progress towards compliance, 
outcome measures for identifying compliance, and a timeframe for achieving compliance. 
“Disallowance”  means to prohibit funds paid retrospective to the date the ineligibility or noncompliance 
occurred. 
“Noncompliance”  means not meeting requirements identified by State Department rules, Federal and 
State statutes, contract terms, and grant terms. 
“Sanction”  means an action taken by the State Department upon a confirmed finding of a county 
department’s noncompliance. State Department actions may ultimately result in financial sanctions or 
state operation of programs as set forth in the Human Services Code, Section 26-1-109(4)(b), (c), (d), (e), 
C.R.S. 
“State Department”  means the Colorado Department of Human Services.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
4 
1.150  CORRECTIVE ACTION PROCESS FOR THE COLORADO DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN 
SERVICES 
1.151  Corrective Action Process Components [Rev. eff. 2/1/11] 
Federal guidelines and rules would take precedence, if different than state rules. 
The components of the Corrective Action Process are: 
A.  Schedule the Audit or Review 
State Department staff shall notify the County Director in writing, through the use of certified mail, 
of the scheduled monitoring visit. Notification should be provided in a manner that allows the 
county department sufficient time to prepare, but shall not occur any closer than two (2) weeks 
prior to the audit/review. The notification shall include any and all information necessary for the 
county department to adequately prepare for the audit or review. 
Emergent situations may warrant an audit or review that commences without a two-week notice. 
In this case, the county will still be notified. 
If the county department has scheduling conflicts that would preclude it from being able to 
participate in the audit or review, it must immediately notify the State Department staff who are 
coordinating the review in order to negotiate a new audit or review date. 
B.  Entrance Conference 
State Department staff shall schedule an entrance interview with the County Director and/or staff 
selected by the County Director. As warranted, State staff or the County Director may chose to 
invite local officials such as County Commissioners or Mayors. The purpose of the entrance 
interview is to introduce staff, explain the reason for the audit or review, review the process and 
schedule, establish procedures for gathering additional information and documentation during the 
review, review the tools used to monitor and evaluate compliance with the standards, and answer 
any questions. 
C.  Audit or Review 
The audit or review shall be planned to minimize disruption to the normal activities of the county 
department. This component includes on-site review and data collection. The county department 
shall provide access to staff and records that the reviewer(s) determines necessary to achieve 
audit or review objectives, in a format that may be specified by the reviewer(s). Discrepancies 
identified during the audit or review shall be discussed with county staff to determine if all relevant 
data has been considered. 
D.  Presentation of Preliminary Findings 
Upon completion of the on-site monitoring activities, the State staff shall, within twenty (20) state 
working days of the completion of the audit or review, draft a Preliminary Report and provide a 
copy of the report to the county department sent by certified mail to the County Director. The 
Preliminary Report shall include the audit or review findings based on the review instrument or 
tool(s) used. If a county department is found to be out of compliance in any area, such area shall 
be highlighted in the preliminary report. 
E.  County Department Response

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
5 
The County Director or his/her designee shall, within twenty (20) state working days of the date 
the Preliminary Report was mailed, respond in writing to the State Department. The response 
shall include information regarding agreement or disagreement with the findings, any identified 
areas of non-compliance, requirements for CAPs, or any objection to specific wording. Any 
designee appointed by the county director to act on his/her behalf shall be a county employee 
approved by the county commissioners, city mayor, or city council persons as appropriate. If the 
county director appoints a designee to act on his/her behalf, this shall also be put in writing and 
submitted to the State Department. 
If the county department does not respond in writing within twenty (20) state working days of the 
date the preliminary findings were mailed, the Preliminary Report shall be considered the Final 
Report. 
F.  Exit Conference 
State Department staff will schedule an Exit Conference with the county department in order to 
discuss the Preliminary Report and the county department’s response within twenty (20) calendar 
days from the end of the time frame for a county response as indicated in Section 1.151, E. The 
following persons, at a minimum, shall attend the exit conference: the State staff responsible for 
the audit or review or their designee, the County Director and/or his/her designee(s), State 
Department program staff with responsibility for any rules reviewed, State staff who conducted 
the review, and the regional Field Administrator. State staff may also invite appropriate local 
officials such as County Commissioners, City Mayors or Council Persons, County Administrators 
or others as deemed appropriate. 
G.  Final Report 
Within twenty (20) state working days of the Exit Conference, State staff shall create a Final 
Report and provide a copy of the report to the county department and the County 
Commissioners, City Mayors or Council Persons, Council Administrators or others as deemed 
appropriate. 
H.  County Department Appeal 
Upon receipt of the Final Report, the county department may appeal the findings of the Final 
Report to the Executive Director of the Colorado Department of Human Services. Within twenty 
working days of the date the Final Report was mailed (through certified mail), the County Director 
may request a review of the findings by the Executive Director of the State Department. The 
county department’s request shall identify the specific findings under dispute and provide data, 
statements of evidence or other evidence and the documentation to support the appeal. The 
Executive Director of the State Department, or his/her designee, shall respond in writing to the 
county department within twenty (20) state working days of the date the appeal letter was 
received. All decisions by the Executive Director or his/her designee shall be considered the final 
decision. If the county department does not appeal the findings in the final report, the right to 
appeal is forfeited. 
As applicable, the State would modify the Final Report based on the Executive Director’s 
decision. If the Final Report requires the county department to complete a CAP, the timeline for 
submitting the CAP does not begin until after the appeal has been heard and formal notification of 
such has been mailed to the county department. 
I.  Corrective Action Plan 
If necessary, a Corrective Action Plan shall be submitted by the county department of 
human/social services to the State Department.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
6 
1.  Upon receiving the Final Report, and if the Report requires the submittal of a Corrective Action 
Plan, the county department shall prepare and return a Corrective Action Plan to the 
State Department within twenty (20) state working days of the date the Final Report was 
mailed. If the county department filed a formal appeal to the Executive Director of the 
Department Human Services that was denied, the CAP must be submitted within twenty 
(20) state working days of the date the formal notice of denial was sent by certified mail. 
2.  The written CAP shall be completed on the CAP form provided by the State Department and 
shall identify areas of non-compliance, action steps to be taken for each area, dated by 
which action steps are to be implemented, indicators of progress toward compliance, 
dates for progress reports, and a date for achieving compliance. 
3.  Within twenty (20) state working days from the date the state designated lead received the 
county CAP, the State Department shall notify the county department of acceptance or 
denial of the CAP and request modifications deemed necessary. 
4.  If a county department does not submit a CAP within the twenty (20) state working days, the 
State Department shall follow the sanction process as described in Section 1.152. 
5.  If the county department needs additional time to meet any of the deadlines provided in this 
Rule Volume 1, the county director may submit a request in writing to the Department, 
providing the reasons that an extension of time is necessary and a proposed date for the 
submittal of required documents or plan. The Department will respond to the request for 
an extension with five (5) state working days of the date the denial was mailed to the 
county department. 
If the county department needs to modify a CAP, the county director may submit a 
request in writing to the Department, providing the reasons that a modification is 
necessary and a proposed date the Department received the request. 
a.  If the request for a modification is denied, the CAP shall remain as previously 
approved. 
b.  If approved, the county will be required to submit a modified CAP Form to the 
Department by the proposed date. 
c.  If the county does not submit the revised CAP Form within the timeline approved, the 
original CAP will continue to be in force. 
6.  At the time the State Department accepts the CAP, questioned costs and/or sanctions will be 
processed in accordance with accounting policy and procedures. 
J.  Corrective Action Plan Monitoring 
Monitoring of the Corrective Action Plan shall begin within twenty (20) state working days 
following State approval of the plan and continues through the completion of the plan. Monitoring 
may include, but not be limited to, case and record reviews, onsite conferences, staff interviews, 
data analysis, and direct observation. At any time during the monitoring of the Corrective Action 
Process, the Department may provide technical assistance, training and other assistance as 
needed. At any time during the monitoring process, but no later than the agreed end of the 
Corrective Action Plan timeframe, the State Department shall notify the county department of the 
status for final compliance. If compliance has been achieved, written notification shall be provided 
to the Executive Director, the Deputy Executive Director, the County Director, Board of County 
Commissioners, and other as deemed appropriate. If the county department remains in 
noncompliance, sanctions will be imposed.

Code of Colorado Regulations 
 
7 
K.  The confidentiality of records audited or reviewed in the course of a program intervention or in the 
course of the corrective action process will be maintained as required by the statutes and rules 
governing the specific program area or areas being audited or reviewed. The confidentiality of a 
program intervention or corrective action process will be maintained as authorized under 
Colorado law. 
Records can be disclosed as authorized under the Colorado Open Records Act or other similar 
federal and state laws. 
1.  If the county or state department receives an open records request of audited or reviewed 
records, the county or state department shall process the request as required by the 
statutes and rules governing the specific program area or areas being audited or 
reviewed. 
2.  If the county or state department receives an open records request of records specific to a 
program intervention for the Corrective Action Process, the county or state department 
shall process the request as required by the statutes and rules governing the specific 
program area or areas being audited or reviewed and the county department will notify 
the state department within twenty-four hours of the request. 
1.152  Sanctions [Rev. eff. 2/1/11] 
If a county department does not meet the requirements of this Rule Volume 1 or fails to comply with an 
approved Corrective Action Plan, the State Department may impose any financial sanction as set forth in 
the Human Services Code, Section 26-1-109(4)(b), (c), (d), (e), C.R.S. These sanctions may include, but 
not be limited by, the following: 
A.  Disallowance of State funds equal to the salary of the County Director of Human/Social Services from 
the grant which the CAP is issued. 
B.  The State Department to undertake the administration of the public assistance or welfare program for 
which the county department has not met the requirements of a Corrective Action Plan. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Rule Volume 1, if the circumstances of noncompliance, as defined 
herein, creates or has the potential to create a risk of imminent harm to a person or damage to property, 
the State Department may take action, as it deems appropriate, consistent with Colorado Human Service 
Code, Section 26-1-101, et seq., C.R.S. 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
History 
Entire rule eff. 09/01/2010. 
Sections SB&P, 1.142, 1.151 – 1.152 eff. 02/01/2011.
