---
id: "9_CCR_2503-8"
entity_type: "regulation_rule"
title: "9 CCR 2503-8"
source_url: "https://www.sos.state.co.us/CCR/GenerateRulePdf.do?ruleVersionId=8849&fileName=9%20CCR%202503-8&type=pdf"
---

#### 9_CCR_2503-8. 9 CCR 2503-8

1 
DEPARTMENT OF HUMAN SERVICES 
Income Maintenance (Volume 3) 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES FOR THE COLORADO CHILD CARE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM 
9 CCR 2503-8 
[Editor’s Notes follow the text of the rules at the end of this CCR Document.] 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
3.840 
COUNTY DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROCESS 
In order to resolve disputes between county departments of social services or the service delivery agency 
and applicants/recipients, county departments shall adopt procedures for the resolution of disputes 
consistent with this section. The procedures shall be designed to establish a simple non-adversarial 
format for the informal resolution of disputes. 
3.840.1 OPPORTUNITY FOR CONFERENCE 
.11 
The county department or local service delivery agency, prior to taking action to deny, terminate, 
recover, initiate vendor payments or modify financial assistance or public assistance, to an 
applicant or recipient, shall, at a minimum, provide the individual opportunity for a county dispute 
resolution conference. 
3.840.12 
The right of an individual to a local conference is primarily to assure that the proposed action is 
valid, to protect the person against an erroneous action concerning benefits, and to assure 
reasonable promptness of county action. The individual may choose, however, to bypass the 
county dispute resolution process and appeal directly to the state Office of Administrative Courts, 
pursuant to the section on appeal and state hearing. 
.13 
The applicant/recipient is entitled to: 
A. 
be represented by an authorized representative, such as legal counsel, relative, friend, or 
other spokesman, or he may represent himself; 
B. 
with the exception of names of confidential informants, privileged communications 
between the county department and its attorney, and the nature and status of pending 
criminal prosecutions, examine the contents of the case file and all documents and 
records used by the county department or agency in making its decision at a reasonable 
time before the conference as well as during the conference; 
C. 
present new information or documentation to support reversal or modification of the 
proposed adverse action; 
.14 
Failure of the applicant/recipient to request a local conference within the prior notice period, or 
failure to appear at the time of the scheduled conference without making a timely request for 
postponement, shall constitute abandonment of the right to a conference, unless the 
applicant/recipient can show good cause for his failure to appear. 
 
Code of Colorado Regulations
Secretary of State
State of Colorado

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
9 CCR 2503-8 
Income Maintenance (Volume 3) 
 
2 
.15 
“Good Cause” includes, but is not limited to: death or incapacity of an applicant/recipient, or a 
member of his immediate family, or the representative; any other health or medical condition of 
an emergency nature; or, other circumstances beyond the control of the applicant/recipient, and 
which would prevent a reasonable person from making a timely request for a conference or 
postponement of a scheduled conference. 
3.840.2 CONDUCT OF COUNTY DISPUTE RESOLUTION CONFERENCE 
.21 
The local dispute resolution conference shall be held in the county department or agency where 
the proposed decision is pending, before a person who was not directly involved in the initial 
determination of the action in question. The individual who initiated the action in dispute shall not 
conduct the local level dispute resolution conference. 
.22 
The person designated to conduct the conference shall be in a position which, based on 
knowledge, experience, and training, would enable him to determine if the proposed action is 
valid. 
.23 
Two or more county departments/service delivery agencies may establish a joint dispute 
resolution process. If two or more counties/service delivery agencies establish a joint process, the 
location of the conference need not be held in the county or agency taking the action, but the 
conference location shall be convenient to the applicant/recipient. 
.24 
The local level conference may be conducted either in person or by telephone. A telephonic 
conference must be agreed to by the applicant/recipient. 
.25 
The county/agency caseworker or other person who initiated the action in dispute, or another 
person familiar with the case, shall attend the local level conference and present the factual basis 
for the disputed action. 
.26 
The local level dispute resolution conference shall be conducted on an informal basis. Every 
effort is to be made to assure that the applicant/recipient understands the county 
department/agency's specific reasons for the proposed action, and the applicable state 
department's rules, or county policy. In the event the applicant/recipient does not speak English, 
an interpreter shall be provided by the county department/agency. 
.27 
The county/agency shall have available at the conference all documents and records in the case 
file pertinent to the specific action in dispute. 
3.840.28 
To the extent possible, the local dispute resolution conference shall be scheduled and 
conducted within the prior notice period. If the county department cannot conduct the conference 
within this period, for whatever reason, the adverse action shall be delayed and benefits 
continued until such conference can be held, unless continued benefits are waived by the 
individual. 
The county department/local service agency shall provide reasonable notice to the individual of 
the scheduled date, time and location for the conference, or the date, time and call-in telephone 
number of the scheduled telephone conference. Notice should be in writing, however, verbal 
notice may be given to facilitate the dispute resolution process. 
3.840.29 
The county department may consolidate disputes with any other public assistance 
program if the facts are similar and consolidation will facilitate resolution of all disputes.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
9 CCR 2503-8 
Income Maintenance (Volume 3) 
 
3 
3.840.3 NOTICE OF DISPUTE RESOLUTION CONFERENCE DECISION 
At the conclusion of the conference, the person presiding shall have the agreement entered into by the 
parties reduced to writing. Such agreement shall be signed by the parties and/or their representatives and 
shall be binding upon the parties. A copy of the written decision shall immediately be provided to the 
applicant/recipient and/or his representative. If the conference is held by telephone, the agreement need 
only be signed by the person presiding. A copy of the agreement will be promptly mailed or delivered to 
the other party(s). In the event the dispute is not resolved, the person presiding shall prepare a written 
statement indicating that the dispute was not resolved. 
3.840.31 
The decision shall include a statement explaining the applicant or recipient's right to 
request a state level fair hearing before an Administrative Law Judge, the time limit for requesting 
a state level hearing, and if appropriate, a statement that applicable benefits will continue pending 
a final state decision if appealed to the state within 10 calendar days from the date of the 
conference decision. 
3.850 
APPEAL AND STATE LEVEL FAIR HEARING 
3.850.1 APPEAL AND STATE LEVEL FAIR HEARING 
3.850.11 
[REV. EFF. 9/15/12] 
These rules apply to all state-level appeals of county department actions concerning child care 
assistance and benefits, social services, medical assistance eligibility, child welfare services, 
adult protective services, and child care, unless such actions have appeals procedures explicitly 
specified elsewhere in department rules/regulations. An affected individual who is dissatisfied 
with a county department action or the result of a county dispute resolution conference or failure 
to act concerning benefits may appeal to the office of administrative courts for a fair hearing 
before an administrative law judge. This will be a full evidentiary hearing of all relevant and 
pertinent facts to review the decision of the county department. The time limitations for submitting 
a request for an appeal are: 
A. 
When the individual elects to avail himself of a county dispute resolution conference, but 
is dissatisfied with that decision, the request must be submitted in writing and mailed or 
delivered within ten (10) calendar days of the date the county dispute resolution 
conference decision was mailed or delivered to the applicant or recipient in order to 
receive continued benefits pending state appeal; otherwise, the ninety (90) day period 
specified in b, below, applies; 
B. 
When the individual elects not to avail himself of a county dispute resolution conference 
but wishes to appeal directly to the state, a written request for an appeal must be mailed 
or delivered not later than 90 calendar days from the date prior notice of the proposed 
action was mailed to the person; 
C. 
A request for an appeal must be mailed or delivered to the office of administrative courts. 
3.850.12 
Requests for state hearings may result from such reasons as: 
A. 
The opportunity to make application or reapplication has been denied; 
B. 
An application for assistance or services has not been acted upon within the maximum 
time period for the category of assistance;

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
9 CCR 2503-8 
Income Maintenance (Volume 3) 
 
4 
C. 
The application for assistance has been denied, the benefit has been modified or 
discontinued, vendor payments have been initiated, requested reconsideration or a 
benefit amount deemed incorrect has been refused or delayed, payment has been 
delayed through the holding of payments, the county is demanding repayment for any 
part of an award to a recipient or former recipient which the recipient does not believe is 
justified, or the applicant or recipient disagrees with the type or level of benefits or 
services provided. 
3.850.13 
the basic objectives and purposes of the appeal and state hearing process are: 
A. 
To safeguard the interests of the individual applicant or recipient; 
B. 
To provide a practical means by which the applicant or recipient is afforded a protection 
against incorrect action on the part of the representatives of the state or county 
departments; 
C. 
To bring to the attention of the state department and county department information 
which may indicate need for clarification or revision of state and county policies and 
procedures; 
D. 
To assure equitable treatment through the administrative process without resort to legal 
action in the courts. 
3.850.14 
Any clear expression in writing by the individual, or someone legally authorized to act for 
him, that he wants an opportunity to have a specific action of a county department reviewed by 
the state department is considered an appeal and a request for a hearing. The county department 
shall, when asked, aid the person in preparation of a request for a hearing. If the request for a 
hearing is made orally, the county department shall immediately prepare a written request for the 
individual's signature or have the recipient prepare such request, specifying the action on which 
the request is based and the reason for appealing that action. 
3.850.15 
The applicant/recipient is entitled to: 
A. 
Be represented by an authorized representative, such as legal counsel, relative, friend, or 
other spokesman, or he may represent himself; 
B. 
With the exception of the names of confidential informants, privileged communications 
between the county departments and its attorney, and the nature and status of pending 
criminal prosecutions, examine the complete case file and any other documents, records, 
or pertinent material to be used by the county at the hearing, at a reasonable time before 
the date of hearing and during the hearing. 
3.850.16 
The applicant/recipient, staff of the county department, and staff of the state department 
are entitled to: 
A. 
Present witnesses; 
B. 
Establish all pertinent facts and circumstances; 
C. 
Advance any arguments without undue interference; 
D. 
Question or refute any testimony or evidence, including opportunity to confront and cross-
examine adverse witnesses.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
9 CCR 2503-8 
Income Maintenance (Volume 3) 
 
5 
3.850.2 AUTHORITY AND DUTIES OF STATE ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE 
3.850.21 
[REV. EFF. 9/15/12] 
One or more persons from the state department of general support services/personnel, office of 
administrative courts, are appointed to serve as administrative law judges for the state 
department of human services. 
.22 
The state administrative law judge shall, prior to the hearing, review the reasons for the decision 
under appeal and be prepared to interpret applicable departmental rules and/or official written 
county policies pertaining to the issue under appeal in preparation for conduct of the hearing. 
.23 
For purposes of these rules, the terms “official written county policies governing the program 
area” or “county policies” are policies or amendments which have been formally adopted by the 
county board of commissioners in that county, subject to the requirements of state rules, state 
law, federal regulations, and federal law. Such policies include county plan submittals required by 
the state department. 
The county shall forward copies of its policies and any subsequent amendments, including 
effective dates, to the state department and to the office of appeals. Individuals appealing a 
county action shall be provided reasonable opportunity to examine the county's policies. 
.24 
When the applicant/recipient and/or the department are not represented by legal counsel, the 
administrative law judge shall assist in bringing forth all relevant evidence and issues relating to 
the appeal. This will include granting the right of either party to submit pertinent questions to the 
other pursuant to appropriate rules of civil procedure. 
3.850.3 STATE RESPONSIBILITIES 
3.850.31 
[REV. EFF. 9/15/12] 
Upon receipt by the office of administrative courts of an appeal request, it is assigned a number. 
A hearing date is set at least ten (10) days in advance, and a letter by first class or certified mail 
is sent to the appellant and the county department notifying them of the date, time, and place of 
the hearing. The appellant is told that if these arrangements are not satisfactory to notify the 
office of administrative courts and, if good cause therefore exists, consideration will be given to 
changing them. An information sheet shall be enclosed to explain the hearing procedures to the 
appellant. The appellant is informed of his right to representation, that he or his representative 
has the right to examine all materials to be used at the hearing, before and during the hearing. 
The appellant also is informed that failure to appear at the hearing as scheduled, without having 
secured a proper extension in advance, or without having shown good cause for failure to appear, 
shall constitute abandonment of the appeal and cause a dismissal thereof. Information which the 
appellant or his representative does not have an opportunity to see shall not be made a part of 
the hearing record or used in a decision on an appeal. No material made available for review by 
the administrative law judge may be withheld from review by the appellant or his representative. 
.32 
In assistance payments and medical assistance eligibility appeals, the administrative law judge 
has 20 days from the hearing date to arrive at an initial decision. The initial decision shall not be 
implemented pending review by the office of appeals and entry of a final agency decision. All 
agency decisions on these appeals shall be made within ninety (90) days from the date of the 
request for hearing is received. 
.33 
In all other appeals, the administrative law judge shall arrive at an initial decision (which is not to 
be implemented) within a reasonable timeframe. All final agency decisions on those matters shall 
also be made within a reasonable period of time.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
9 CCR 2503-8 
Income Maintenance (Volume 3) 
 
6 
.34 
Once the initial decision has been made, it shall immediately be delivered to the state department 
of human services, office of appeals, for determination of the final agency decision. 
3.850.4 COUNTY RESPONSIBILITIES 
3.850.41 
[REV. EFF. 9/15/12] 
When the applicant/recipient has had a local dispute resolution conference and wishes to appeal 
the county department's decision, the following procedures are to be followed: 
A. 
As part of the local conference the applicant or recipient is informed that if he wishes to 
appeal to the office of administrative courts for a hearing, the county department will 
assist him in organizing the facts supporting his claim, if he so desires, and that he may 
have the opportunity to examine materials as described in the section concerning 
opportunity for state level fair hearing; 
B. 
The county will forward a copy of the decision and a copy of the written notification given 
to the applicant/recipient of the proposed adverse action to the office of administrative 
courts. 
3.850.42 
[REV. EFF. 9/15/12] 
When the applicant/recipient makes his/her appeal directly to the office of administrative courts, a 
copy of the notice to the appellant setting a date for the hearing is forwarded to the county 
department. Upon receipt by the county department, the county department prepares and mails a 
letter to the appellant with a copy to the office of administrative courts, no later than five (5) days 
prior to the hearing, giving the following information: 
A. 
The reasons for the decision of the county department and specific explanation of each 
factor involved, such as the amount of excess property or income, assignment or transfer 
of property, residence factors, service needs; 
B. 
The specific state rules and/or the official written county policy(s) on which the decision is 
based and numeric reference to each such rule, including the appropriate code of 
colorado regulations (ccr) cites; 
C. 
Notice that the county department will assist him/her in organizing the facts supporting 
his/her claim, if s/he so desires, and that s/he may have the opportunity to examine 
regulations and other materials to be used at the hearing concerning the basis of the 
county decision. 
3.850.43 
[REV. EFF. 9/15/12] 
If the appellant indicates that s/he desires to withdraw his/her appeal, a statement to that effect 
shall be obtained from him/her in writing and forwarded to the office of administrative courts. The 
county department shall also advise the office of administrative courts by telephone, as soon as it 
is ascertained that the appeal has been withdrawn and that the appellant will not attend the 
hearing. 
3.850.44 
[REV. EFF. 7/1/89] 
If an individual who files an appeal is to be represented by legal counsel, or other representative, 
at the pending hearing, the county department will not discuss with the individual the merits of the 
appeal or the question of whether or not to proceed with it unless in the presence of, or with the 
permission of, such counsel or such other designated representative.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
9 CCR 2503-8 
Income Maintenance (Volume 3) 
 
7 
3.850.45 
[REV. EFF. 7/1/89] 
If the county department learns that the applicant or recipient will be represented by legal 
counsel, the county department shall make every effort to insure that it too is represented by an 
attorney at the hearing. The county department may be represented by an attorney in any other 
appeal that it considers such representation desirable. 
3.850.46 
[REV. EFF. 7/1/89] 
If the appellant has a language difficulty, the county department shall arrange to have present at 
the hearing a qualified interpreter who will be sworn to translate correctly. 
3.850.47 
[REV. EFF. 9/15/12] 
The fact that an appellant and the county department have been notified that a hearing will be 
held does not prevent the county department from reviewing the case and considering any new 
factors which might change the status of the case, taking such action as may be indicated to 
reverse its decision or otherwise settle the issue. Any change which results in a voiding of the 
cause of appeal shall be immediately reported to the office of administrative courts by telephone. 
3.850.48 
[REV. EFF. 7/1/89] 
Upon receipt of notice of a state hearing on an appeal, the county department shall arrange for a 
suitable hearing room appropriate to accommodate the number of persons, including witnesses, 
who are expected to be in attendance, taking into consideration such factors as privacy; absence 
of distracting noise; need for table, chairs, electrical outlet, adequate lighting and ventilation, and 
conference telephone facilities. 
3.850.5 CONDUCT OF STATE HEARINGS 
3.850.50 
Conference telephonic hearings may be conducted unless otherwise requested by any of 
the parties, as an alternative to face-to-face hearings. All applicable provisions of the face-to-face 
hearings procedures will apply, such as the right to be represented by counsel, the right to 
examine and cross-examine witnesses, the right to examine the contents of the case file, and the 
right to have the hearing conducted at a reasonable time and date. 
3.850.51 
The administrative law judge shall conduct the hearings in accordance with the colorado 
administrative procedure act (section 24-4-105, c.r.s.). 
3.850.52 
The county department shall have the burden of proof, by a preponderance of the 
evidence, to establish the basis of the ruling being appealed. Every party to the proceeding shall 
have the right to present his case or defense by oral and documentary evidence, to submit 
rebuttal evidence, and to conduct such cross-examination as may be required for a full and true 
disclosure of the facts. Subject to these rights and requirements, where a hearing will be 
expedited and the interests of the parties will not be subsequently prejudiced thereby, the 
administrative law judge may receive all or part of the evidence in written form or by oral 
stipulations. 
3.850.6 PROCEDURE OF HEARING 
3.850.61 
PROCEDURE BEFORE ALJ [REV. EFF. 9/15/12] 
The following provisions govern the procedure at state hearings before the administrative law 
judge:

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
9 CCR 2503-8 
Income Maintenance (Volume 3) 
 
8 
A. 
The hearing is private; however, any person or persons whom the appellant wishes to 
appear for him may be present, and, if requested by the appellant and in the record, such hearing 
may be public; 
B. 
The purpose of the hearing is to determine the pertinent facts in order to arrive at a fair 
and equitable decision in accordance with the rules of the state department. In arriving at a 
decision, only the evidence and testimony introduced at the hearing is considered, except that the 
administrative law judge may permit the introduction of medical or other evidence after the 
hearing, provided the opposing party is also furnished a copy and is afforded the opportunity to 
controvert or otherwise respond to such evidence, in circumstances when it is shown, at the 
hearing, that such evidence could not, for good cause, be obtained in time for the hearing. Delays 
in rendering the initial decision will be charged to the party requesting the delay; 
C. 
Although the hearing is conducted on an informal basis and an effort is made to place all 
the parties at ease, it is essential that the evidence be presented in an orderly manner so as to 
result in an adequate record; 
D. 
A complete and exact record of the proceedings shall be made by electronic or other 
means. When required, the office of administrative courts shall cause the proceedings to be 
transcribed. 
3.850.62 
When the administrative law judge dismisses an appeal for reasons other than failure to 
appear, the decision of the administrative law judge shall be an initial decision, which shall not be 
implemented pending review by the office of appeals and entry of an agency decision. 
3.850.63 
The administrative law judge shall not enter a default against any party for failure to file a 
written answer in response to the notice of hearing, but shall base the initial decision upon the 
evidence introduced at the hearing. An appellant may be granted a postponement of the hearing, 
however, if the county department has failed to provide the statement required by section 
3.850.42 and the appellant has therefore been unable to prepare for the hearing. 
3.850.64 
[REV. EFF. 9/15/12] 
When an appellant fails to appear at a duly scheduled hearing, having been given proper notice, 
without having given timely advance notice to the administrative law judge of acceptable good 
cause for inability to appear at the hearing at the time, date and place specified in the notice of 
hearing, then the appeal shall be considered abandoned and an order of dismissal shall be 
entered by the administrative law judge and served upon the parties by the office of 
administrative courts. The dismissal order shall not be implemented pending review by the office 
of appeals and entry of an agency decision. 
The appellant, however, shall be afforded a ten-day period from the date the order of dismissal 
was mailed, during which the appellant may explain in a letter to the administrative law judge the 
reason for his/her failure to appear. If the administrative law judge then finds that there was 
acceptable good cause for the appellant not appearing, the administrative law judge shall vacate 
the order dismissing the appeal and reschedule another hearing date.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
9 CCR 2503-8 
Income Maintenance (Volume 3) 
 
9 
If the appellant does not submit a letter seeking to show good cause within the 10-day period, the 
order of dismissal shall be filed with the office of appeals of the state department. The office of 
appeals shall confirm the dismissal of the appeal by an agency decision, which shall be served 
upon the parties. The county department shall immediately carry out the necessary actions to 
provide assistance or services in the correct amount, to terminate assistance or services, to 
recover assistance incorrectly paid, and/or other appropriate actions in accordance with the rules. 
If the appellant submits a letter seeking to show good cause and the administrative law judge 
finds that the stated facts do not constitute good cause, the administrative law judge shall enter 
an initial decision confirming the dismissal. The appellant may file exceptions to the initial 
decision pursuant to section 3.850.72, a. 
3.850.65 
INTERIM RELIEF (NOT APPLICABLE TO CHILD CARE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS) 
3.850.651 
Upon written sworn application accompanied by appropriate financial statement, the appellant 
may, at any time prior to the hearing of an action concerning termination or reduction of 
assistance or services, apply for an agency order (the administrative law judge is designated as 
representing the agency in such matters) granting interim relief to prevent irreparable injury. The 
order, if made, shall continue in force until the final agency decision. The order shall contain a 
specific finding based upon evidence submitted to the administrative law judge that specified 
irreparable damage will result if the order is not granted. A copy of such decision shall be sent to 
the county department. In the event the final agency decision is against the appellant, recovery 
shall be considered for all funds expended under the order of interim relief subject to recovery 
rules. 
3.850.652 
The county department shall provide to the appellant the assistance or service specified in an 
agency order granting interim relief as soon as possible but not later than ten calendar days from 
the date of receipt of such order. 
3.850.653 
The appellant need not request interim relief if he/she is eligible for continued benefits pursuant to 
section 3.800.34 of this staff manual. 
3.850.7 DECISION AND NOTIFICATION 
3.850.71 
INITIAL DECISION 
Following the conclusion of the hearing, the administrative law judge shall promptly prepare and 
issue an initial decision and file it with the office of appeals of the state department of human 
services. 
The initial decision shall make an initial determination whether the county or state department or 
its agent acted in accordance with, and/or properly interpreted, the rules of the state department. 
The administrative law judge may determine whether statutes were properly interpreted and 
applied only when no implementing state rules or county department policy exist. The 
administrative law judge has no jurisdiction or authority to determine issues of constitutionality or 
legality of departmental rules.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
9 CCR 2503-8 
Income Maintenance (Volume 3) 
 
10 
The initial decision shall advise the applicant/recipient that failure to file exceptions to provisions 
of the initial decision will waive the right to seek judicial review of a final agency decision which 
affirms those provisions. 
The office of appeals shall promptly serve the initial decision upon each party by first class mail, 
and shall transmit a copy of the decision to the division of the state department which administers 
the program(s) pertinent to the appeal. 
The initial decision shall not be implemented pending review by the office of appeals and entry of 
an agency decision. 
3.850.72 
REVIEW BY THE OFFICE OF APPEALS [REV. EFF. 9/15/12] 
The office of appeals of the state department, as the designee of the executive director, shall 
review the initial decision of the administrative law judge and shall enter a final agency decision 
affirming, modifying, reversing, or remanding the initial decision. 
A. 
Any party seeking an agency decision which reverses, modifies, or remands the initial 
decision of the administrative law judge shall file exceptions to the decision with the state 
department, office of appeals, within fifteen (15) days (plus three days for mailing) from 
the date the initial decision is mailed to the parties. Exceptions must state specific 
grounds for reversal, modification or remand of the initial decision. 
If the party asserts that the administrative law judge's findings of fact are not supported 
by the weight of the evidence, the party shall simultaneously with or prior to the filing of 
exceptions request the office of administrative courts to cause a transcript of all or a 
portion of the hearing to be prepared and filed with the office of appeals. The exceptions 
shall state that a transcript has been requested, if applicable. Within 5 days of the request 
for transcript, the party requesting it shall advance the cost therefore to the transcriber 
designated by the office of administrative courts unless prior payment is waived by the 
transcriber. 
A party who is unable because of indigency to pay the cost of a transcript may file a 
written request, which need not be sworn, with the office of appeals for permission to 
submit a copy of the hearing recording instead of the transcript. If submission of a 
recording is permitted, the party filing exceptions must promptly request a copy of the 
recording from the office of administrative courts and deliver it to the office of appeals. 
Payment in advance shall be required for the preparation of a copy of the recording. 
If the exceptions do not challenge the findings of fact, but instead assert only that the 
administrative law judge improperly interpreted or applied state rules or statutes, the 
party filing exceptions is not required to provide a transcript or recording to the office of 
appeals. 
The office of appeals shall serve a copy of the exceptions on each party by first class 
mail. Each party shall be limited to ten (10) calendar days from the date exceptions are 
mailed to the parties in which to file a written response to such exceptions. The office of 
appeals shall not permit oral argument. 
The office of appeals shall not consider evidence which was not part of the record before 
the administrative law judge. However, the case may be remanded to the administrative 
law judge for rehearing if a party establishes in its exceptions that material evidence has 
been discovered which the party could not with reasonable diligence have produced at 
the hearing.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
9 CCR 2503-8 
Income Maintenance (Volume 3) 
 
11 
While review of the initial decision is pending before the office of appeals, the record on 
review, including any transcript or recording of testimony filed with the office of appeals, 
shall be available for examination by any party at the office of appeals during regular 
business hours. 
B. 
The division(s) of the state department responsible for administering the program(s) 
relevant to the appeal may file exceptions to the initial decision, or respond to exceptions 
filed by a party, even though the division has not previously appeared as a party to the 
appeal. The division's exceptions or responses must be filed in compliance with the 
requirements of 3.850.72, a, above. Exceptions filed by a division that did not appear as 
a party at the hearing shall be treated as requesting review of the initial decision upon the 
state department's own motion. 
C. 
In the absence of exceptions filed by any party or by a division of the state department of 
human services, the office of appeals shall review the initial decision, and may review the 
hearing file of the administrative law judge and/or the recorded testimony of witnesses, 
before entering a final agency decision. Review by the office of appeals shall determine 
whether the decision properly interprets and applies the rules of the state department, or 
relevant statutes, and whether the findings of fact and conclusions of law support the 
decision. If a party or division of the state department objects to the agency decision 
entered upon review by the office of appeals, the party or division may seek 
reconsideration pursuant to section 3.850.73, below. 
D. 
The office of appeals shall mail copies of the final agency decision to all parties by first 
class mail. 
E. 
For purposes of requesting judicial review, the effective date of the final agency decision 
shall be the third day after the date the decision is mailed to the parties, even if the third 
day falls on saturday, sunday, or a legal holiday. The parties shall be advised of this in 
the agency decision. 
F. 
The state or county department shall initiate action to comply with the final agency 
decision within three working days after the effective date. The department shall comply 
with the decision even if reconsideration is requested, unless the effective date of the 
agency decision is postponed by order of the office of appeals or a reviewing court. 
3.850.73 
RECONSIDERATION OF AGENCY DECISION 
A motion for reconsideration of a final agency decision may be granted by the office of appeals 
for the following reasons: 
A. 
Upon a showing of good cause for failure to file exceptions to the initial decision within 
the 15 day period allowed by section 3.850.72, a; or 
B. 
Upon a showing that the agency decision is based upon a clear or plain error of fact or 
law. An error of law means failure by the office of appeals to follow a rule, statute, or 
court decision which controls the outcome of the appeal. 
No motion for reconsideration shall be granted unless it is filed in writing with the office of 
appeals within 15 days of the date that the agency decision is mailed to the parties. The 
motion must state specific grounds for reconsideration of the agency decision. 
The office of appeals shall mail a copy of the motion for reconsideration to each party of 
record and to the appropriate division of the state department.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
9 CCR 2503-8 
Income Maintenance (Volume 3) 
 
12 
3.850.74 
When an appeal results in a decision that an action of the county or state department was not in 
accordance with rules of the department, or when the county or state department so determines 
after a request for a hearing is made, the adjustment or corrective payment is made retroactively 
to the date of the incorrect action. 
3.850.75 
[REV. EFF. 9/15/12] 
The applicant/recipient is to be fully informed by the final agency decision of his further right to 
apply for judicial review of the agency decision by the filing of an action for review in the 
appropriate state district court. Any such action must be filed in accordance with the rules of civil 
procedure for courts of record in colorado within thirty five (35) days after the final agency 
decision becomes effective. 
3.850.76 
The state department will establish and maintain a method for informing, in summary and 
depersonalized form, all county departments and other interested persons conceming the issues 
raised and decisions made on appeals. 
3.850.77 
The executive director or designee shall have the power to enter declaratory orders. The 
executive director or designee may, in his/her discretion, entertain and promptly dispose of 
petitions for declaratory orders to terminate controversies and/or remove uncertainties as to the 
applicability to the petitioners of any statutory provisions or of any rule. The order of the executive 
director or designee disposing of the petition shall constitute final agency action subject to judicial 
review. 
3.850.8 GROUP HEARINGS AND EXCEPTIONS 
.81 
When a number of individual requests for hearing are received and if the sole issue involved is 
one of state or federal law or changes in state or federal law, a single group hearing may be 
conducted. In all group hearings, the policies governing hearings must be followed. Each 
individual shall be permitted to present his own case or be represented by his authorized 
representative and is entitled to receive a copy of the written decision. 
.82 
A hearing shall not be granted when either state or federal law requires an automatic benefit 
adjustment for classes of recipients unless the sole reason for an individual appeal is incorrect 
benefit computation. Furthermore, a hearing shall not be granted when either state or federal law 
requires or results in a reduction or deletion of a benefit. 
.83 
Unless properly designated as a representative of an individual, a provider of assistance, or any 
other provider of goods and services to applicants or recipients, shall not be granted a hearing 
concerning an alleged adverse action to an applicant or recipients. 
3.850.9 PROVIDER APPEALS 
In the case of an appeal by a licensed or certified provider or vendor of services of an adverse action by a 
county department or the state department related to provider status, rates, or purchased services, the 
decision of the Administrative Law Judge is a final agency decision and is not subject to state department 
review or modification. The decision of the Administrative Law Judge is subject to judicial review, 
pursuant to 24-4-106 and 26-1-106, C.R.S.

CODE OF COLORADO REGULATIONS 
9 CCR 2503-8 
Income Maintenance (Volume 3) 
 
13 
_________________________________________________________________________ 
Editor’s Notes 
Primary sections of 9 CCR 2503-1 have been recodified effective 09/15/2012. See list below. Versions 
and rule history prior to 09/15/2012 can be found in 9 CCR 2503-1. Prior versions can be accessed from 
the All Versions list on the current rule page. 
Rule section 3.000-3.100, et seq. has been recodified as 9 CCR 2503-1, (Reserved for Future Use). 
Rule section 3.200, et seq. has been recodified as 9 CCR 2503-2, (Reserved for Future Use). 
Rule section 3.300, et seq. has been recodified as 9 CCR 2503-3, COLORADO REFUGEE SERVICES 
PROGRAM (CRSP). 
Rule section 3.400, et seq. has been recodified as 9 CCR 2503-4, (Reserved for Future Use). 
Rule section 3.500, et seq. has been recodified as 9 CCR 2503-5, ADULT FINANCIAL PROGRAMS. 
Rule section 3.600, et seq. has been recodified as 9 CCR 2503-6, COLORADO WORKS PROGRAM. 
Rule section 3.700, et seq. has been recodified as 9 CCR 2503-7, LOW-INCOME ENERGY 
ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS (LEAP). 
Rule section 3.800, et seq. has been recodified as 9 CCR 2503-8, ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES 
FOR THE COLORADO CHILD CARE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM. 
Rule section 3.900, et seq. has been recodified as 9 CCR 2503-9, COLORADO CHILD CARE 
ASSISTANCE PROGRAM. 
History 
Rules 3.800.51-52, 3.810.13, 3.830.22-24, 3.840.12, 3.850.11, 3.850.21, 3.850.31, 3.850.41-43, 
3.850.47, 3.850.61, 3.850.64, 3.850.72, 3.850.75, eff. 09/15/2012. Rules 3.800.53-54, 3.800.6, 
3.810.6-3.810.62, 3.811-3.811.57 repealed eff. 09/15/2012. 
Rule 3.800.7 eff. 01/01/2016. 
Rules 3.840.11, 3.840.14-15, 3.840.22, 3.840.27-29, 3.840.3, 3.840.31, 3.850.11, 3.850.2-3.850.4, 
3.850.50, 3.850.6-3.850.9, eff. 03/01/2020. Rules 3.800-3.830.31, 3.850.23, 3.850.65, 3.860-
3.880 repealed eff. 03/01/2020. 
Rules 3.850.1-3.850.77 emer. rules eff. 04/03/2020. 
Rules 3.850.1-3.850.77 eff. 07/01/2020.
